

1 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: A Richter Scale for Markets

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
It's tempting to pull out the old earthquake metaphor when talking about the latest financial crises. How else to describe the economic devastation -- the tremors in the subprime mortgage market, the seismic collapse of Lehman Brothers, and the aftershocks reverberating in Europe?
But some academics are now taking the metaphor seriously, pursuing a new approach to economics they call econophysics. The field represents a significant break from traditional economics, by studying financial earthquakes in much the same way geologists study those on terra firma. ''New approaches are needed to address the fundamental and practical challenges of our financial, economic and social system,'' a group of econophysicists wrote recently in an open letter to George Soros, the billionaire investor and philanthropist. 
Macroeconomists construct elegant theories to inform their understanding of crises. Econophysicists view markets as far more messy and complex -- so much so that the beauty and logic of economic theory is a poor substitute. Drawing on the tools of the natural sciences, they believe that by sorting through an enormous amount of data, they can work backward to find the underlying dynamics of economic earthquakes and figure out how to prepare for the next one.
Financial crises are difficult to predict, the econophysicists say, because markets are not, as some traditional economists believe, efficient, self-regulating and self-correcting. The periodic upheavals are the result of a cascade of events and feedback loops, much like the tectonic rumblings beneath the Earth's surface.
Scientists have found that earthquakes, natural and financial, share similar patterns. Small, subtle market gyrations are such regular occurrences that they are barely noticed; extreme market shocks -- the proverbial ''Big One'' -- are very rare. So too with earthquakes, which also adhere to a statistical relationship known as a power law.
Economic earthquakes also trigger dangerous aftershocks. Just as 19th-century Japanese geophysicists discovered that aftershocks continue to reverberate well after a first major tremor hits, modern-day stock market seismologists have identified a similar pattern with financial crashes.
''If you analyze them, this earthquake law is obeyed perfectly,'' notes H. Eugene Stanley, a Boston University physics professor who published a pioneering study of financial markets in the scientific journal Nature. ''A big shock causes smaller aftershocks, and then ones smaller and even smaller.''
Indeed, financial crises come in clusters. The currency crisis in Thailand during the late 1990s was followed by similar problems in Indonesia and South Korea. After Lehman Brothers faltered, Washington Mutual, the Wachovia Corporation and scores of smaller banks toppled over like dominoes.
Some econophysicists, as well as economists and politicians, suggest that the ongoing turmoil in Europe was triggered by the lingering effects of the 2008 panic that started in the United States.
Financial earthquakes also radically reshape the environment. The sudden release of energy in the Earth's crust creates seismic waves that can move mountains; financial crises can lead to the upheaval of regulations in place for years.
After the crash of 1929 and the Great Depression, the Glass-Steagall Act was enacted to separate commercial banking from investment banking. Now, in the wake of the recent crisis, lawmakers have just completed the biggest overhaul of financial rules since the 1930s.
''Great earthquakes shape landscapes,'' said Didier Sornette, a geophysics professor who now runs the Financial Crisis Observatory in Zurich. ''Great crashes shape regulation, the perception of risk, and the psychology of people.''
But as with earthquake science, our understanding of financial crises is primitive.
Seismologists, for example, can monitor the Earth's daily gyrations along the San Andreas Fault and know that the chance of a devastating earthquake -- one larger than 6.7 on the Richter scale -- over the next 30 years is greater than 99 percent. But they can't pinpoint exactly when or where one will hit, or how big it will be.
Economic earthquakes are even less predictable. One reason is that the real world is a complex system that is constantly adapting. Another reason is that while there are geological limits on the energy an earthquake can unleash, there are no constraints on prices.
''The physical world cannot surprise us massively,'' said Nassim Taleb, author of ''The Black Swan,'' a best-selling book about the influence of highly improbable events. ''The financial world can.''
So if financial crises are hard to predict, can anything be done to prevent the damage they cause? Lessons learned by earthquake scientists are instructive here as well.
After the Great Earthquake of 1906, architects and engineers greatly revamped San Francisco's building codes so the buildings would be able to withstand an even heftier blow. Likewise, the recently enacted regulatory reforms are aimed at strengthening the nation's financial architecture. The new rules are intended to act like shock absorbers to buttress the market's wild swings.
''We want to fortify structures so they don't collapse,'' said Lawrence H. Summers, the president's chief economic adviser. Other administration officials suggest that the so-called systemic risk council of regulators can be on the lookout for early tremors in financial markets, just as seismologists do. ''If you have better monitoring systems for earthquakes, you can take precautions and evacuate the population if a tsunami is about to occur,'' said Alan Krueger, the Treasury Department's chief economist.
Or prepare for the next eruption in the markets. The Securities and Exchange Commission recently asked a Princeton-trained nuclear physicist to lead its investigation into the causes of a ''flash crash'' in May, when the stock market plunged and then quickly rebounded, nonetheless stoking investor fears.
Still, no panacea for calming the volatile markets is in sight.
''We can have sound financial institutions but still have major financial earthquakes if the policies that governments pursue are fundamentally unbalanced,'' said Lowell Bryan, a senior partner at McKinsey & Company. ''Nobody seems quite interested in going through the pain.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY NICHOLAS FELTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); PHYSICS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); CURRENCIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (51%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) EARTH (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



2 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: The Un-Divorced

BYLINE: By PAMELA PAUL

 BODY:
JOHN FROST and his wife had been unhappily married for much of their 25 years together when his company relocated him in 2000. So when he moved from Virginia to Knoxville, Tenn., he left her behind.
At first, it wasn't clear what would happen next. Would she follow him? Or would they end up divorced?
The answer: neither. ''After a few months,'' Mr. Frost said, ''we both realized we liked it this way.''
Technically, the two are married. They file joint tax returns; she's covered by his insurance. But they see each other just several times a year. ''Since separating we get along better than we ever have,'' he said. ''It's kind of nice.'' 
And at 58, he sees no reason to divorce. Their children have grown and left home. He asked himself: Why bring in a bunch of lawyers? Why create rancor when there's nowhere to go but down?
''To tie a bow around it would only make it uglier,'' Mr. Frost said. ''When people ask about my relationship status, I usually just say: 'It's complicated. I like my wife, I just can't live with her.' ''
The term ''trial separation'' conjures a swift purgatory, something ducked into regretfully and escaped from with due speed, even if into that most conclusive of relationships, divorce. We understand the expeditious voyage from separation to divorce, the desire for a clear-cut ending that makes way for a clear-cut beginning. We hardly look askance at the miserably married or the exes who hurl epithets in divorce court.
But couples who stubbornly remain separated, sometimes for years? That leaves us dumbfounded. ''I see it all the time,'' said Lynne Gold-Bikin, a divorce lawyer in Norristown, Pa., who is the chairman of the family law department at Weber Gallagher. She can cite a docket of cases of endless separation.
With one couple separated since 1989, the wife's perspective was, ''We still get invited as Mr. and Mrs., we go to functions together, he still sends me cards,'' Ms. Gold-Bikin said. As for the husband, ''He cared for her, he just didn't want to live with her.''
But at his girlfriend's urging, he finally initiated divorce proceedings. Then he became ill and she began taking over his finances -- a bit too wifelike for him. ''He said, enough of this, there's no reason to get divorced,'' Ms. Gold-Bikin recalled.
Among those who seem to have reached a similar conclusion is Warren Buffett, the wealthy chairman of Berkshire Hathaway. Mr. Buffett separated from his wife, Susan, in 1977 but remained married to her until her death in 2004. All the while, he lived with Astrid Menks; they married in 2006. The threesome remained close, even sending out holiday cards signed, ''Warren, Susan and Astrid.''
Also in the ranks of the un-divorced: the artist Willem de Kooning had been separated from his wife for 34 years when she died in 1989. Jann and Jane Wenner separated in 1995 after 28 years but are still married, despite Mr. Wenner's romantic relationship with a man.
Society is full of whispered scenarios in which spouses live apart, in different homes or in the same mega-apartment in order to silence gossip, avoid ugly divorce battles and maintain the status quo, however uneasy. In certain cases, the world assumes a couple is divorced and never learns otherwise until an obituary puts the record straight.
Separations are usually de facto, rarely pounded out in a contract, and family law is different state to state. But even long-estranged couples are irrefutably bound by contractual links on issues like taxes, pensions, Social Security and health care.
Divorce lawyers and marriage therapists say that for most couples, the motivation to remain married is financial. According to federal law, an ex qualifies for a share of a spouse's Social Security payment if the marriage lasts a decade. In the case of more amicable divorces, financial advisers and lawyers may urge a couple who have been married eight years to wait until the dependent spouse qualifies.
For others, a separation agreement may be negotiated so that a spouse keeps the other's insurance until he or she is old enough for Medicare. If one person has an existing condition, obtaining affordable health care coverage is often difficult or impossible. The recession, with its real estate lows and health care expense highs, adds incentives to separate indefinitely.
Four years ago, Peggy Sanchez, 50, a Midwest resident, parted amicably from her husband, who has fibromyalgia.
''He would not get medical treatment if he weren't on my insurance,'' she said, and giving him that is less expensive than paying alimony. ''Besides, I care about him and want to make sure he gets the medical help he needs,'' she said.
There are still sticky issues: Ms. Sanchez's boyfriend is unaware that she's still married. Her daughter from a previous marriage views her husband as a father figure. And he got custody of the family dog. But Ms. Sanchez plans to stay separated.
''I don't have much desire to remarry so there's no benefit to me from divorce,'' she said. ''I guess that sounds pretty jaded, but it's just not as important as it used to be.''
Sharon O'Neill, a marriage therapist in Mount Kisco, N.Y., has seen four cases in the last two years in which couples separated but stayed in the same home. In a depressed market, couples may not want to sell a house they purchased at the market's height, or one party can't maintain the mortgage or the other can't afford a new home.
''The financial collapse has made people say, 'Let's not rush into a divorce, let's see if we can make something else work,' '' Ms. O'Neill said.
The added value of marriage is also hard to kick.
''Many people I've worked with over time enjoy the benefits of being married: the financial perks, the tax breaks, the health care coverage,'' said Toni Coleman, a couples therapist in McLean, Va. ''They maintain a friendship, they co-parent their kids, they may do things socially together. Sometimes they're part of a political couple in Washington or have prominent corporate positions. But they just feel they can't live together.''
What Ms. Coleman finds surprising is that the primary consideration is practical and financial, not familial. The effect of endless separations on the children rarely seems a priority.
''People split up and have these God-awful joint custody arrangements, so you would think that they stay separated for the kids' sake, but I'm not seeing that,'' she said. ''It usually comes down to money.''
Others believe separation is easier on the children than is divorce. A 48-year-old social worker from Brooklyn, separated eight years, traded places with her husband in the same home, so that their children would not have to shuttle from one home to the other. The couple had an apartment where each would live when not at the family home.
''In hindsight, it was probably more confusing for the kids,'' she said. ''But we did it with their best interests in mind.''
But long-term separation can create big problems. If a couple isn't divorced, their lives are still legally and financially intertwined. If your estranged husband goes on a spending spree, you're responsible for the ensuing credit card debt. If you win the lottery, that's community property. Finances can swing wildly, creating an alimony boon or a bombshell should one partner eventually want a divorce.
''I just had a situation where after 15 years of separation, the wife wanted to remarry,'' said Elizabeth Lindsey, an Atlanta divorce lawyer. ''But over the years, his assets had completely dissipated.'' The wife would have profited from divorcing earlier.
A separation can also go on longer than anyone anticipated, even until death, leaving a mess for survivors. In New York State, for example, a spouse, even if separated, is entitled to a third of the partner's estate.
There's also the risk that you could lose track of your erstwhile partner altogether. ''We see cases, usually with foreign nationals, where the husband goes back to the Philippines, and the wife wants to marry James but she's still married to Ted,'' said Steve Mindel, a managing partner at the Los Angeles law firm Feinberg Mindel Brandt & Klein. Judges now often require that a professional be hired to locate the spouse, to facilitate the divorce.
BUT more often than not, a delayed divorce simply reflects inertia. Celeste Liversidge, a divorce lawyer in Los Angeles, most frequently sees people who are avoiding an unpleasant task.
''It's often so ugly,'' she said. ''People get to a point where they can't live with each other but going through the divorce process is too painful.'' A six-month separation turns into years.
One woman, a 39-year-old mother of two from Brooklyn, who like many interviewed for this article wished to remain anonymous, has stayed separated for nearly two years at the suggestion of five lawyers.
''There's no advantage to getting divorced,'' she said. Both she and her husband are in new relationships. Most people assume they've officially split. But given the health insurance issue and the prospect of legal fees, she said, ''I feel like we could just drift on like this for years.''
Not being divorced is also an excuse not to remarry.
''In my day, we'd refer to a man as a bon vivant, a gadabout who doesn't want to worry about marrying anyone else because he's already married,'' said Sheila Riesel, a New York divorce lawyer for more than three decades.
In the end, some people just don't want to divorce. Perhaps one spouse desires it and the other drags his or her feet. Sometimes, people are just confused; separation can be a wake-up call.
In other cases, initiating divorce ultimately serves that purpose. Last year, a 67-year-old professor in New York filed for divorce from the man she married in 1969 and separated from in 1988 after she had an affair with a woman.
''I had images of Vita Sackville-West, but it was very messy and the children suffered a lot,'' she recalled. ''My husband had been more attached to me than I thought.''
And she considered him a pal; they even took vacations together. ''I think I liked that we were still married in some way,'' she admitted. ''But last year I met someone who minds that I'm still married to someone else.''
And thus, time to divorce. Call it an old-fashioned romance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LIMBO: Lynne Gold-Bikin, a lawyer, sees many long separations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST8)
A TRIO: Warren Buffett remained married to Susan, left, while living with Astrid Menks, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE LEFT, CHRIS KLEPONIS/AGENCE-FRANCE PRESSE
 ABOVE RIGHT ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (ST9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID PLUNKERT) (ST1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (73%); LAWYERS (72%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (50%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (50%); BRK.A (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (73%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



3 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Turbines Too Loud for You? Here, Take $5,000

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
IONE, Ore. -- Residents of the remote high-desert hills near here have had an unusual visitor recently, a fixer working out the kinks in clean energy.
Patricia Pilz of Caithness Energy, a big company from New York that is helping make this part of Eastern Oregon one of the fastest-growing wind power regions in the country, is making a tempting offer: sign a waiver saying you will not complain about excessive noise from the turning turbines -- the whoosh, whoosh, whoosh of the future, advocates say -- and she will cut you a check for $5,000.
''Shall we call it hush money?'' said one longtime farmer, George Griffith, 84. ''It was about as easy as easy money can get.''
Mr. Griffith happily accepted the check, but not everyone is taking the money. Even out here -- where the recession has steepened the steady decline of the rural economy, where people have long supported the massive dams that harness the Columbia River for hydroelectric power, where Oregon has invested hundreds of millions of dollars in tax incentives to cultivate alternative energy -- pockets of resistance are rising with the windmills on the river banks. 
Residents in small towns are fighting proposed projects, raising concerns about threats to birds and big game, as well as about the way the giant towers and their blinking lights spoil some of the West's most alluring views.
Here, just west of where the Columbia bends north into Washington, some people are fighting turbines that are already up and running. In a region where people often have to holler to be heard over the roar of the wind across the barren hills, they say it is the windmills that make too much noise.
''The only thing we have going for us is the Oregon state noise ordinance,'' said Mike Eaton, an opponent of the turbines.
Oregon is one of a growing number of places that have drafted specific regulations restricting noise from wind turbines. The Oregon law allows for noise to exceed what is considered an area's ambient noise level by only a certain amount. But what those ambient levels are is sometimes disputed, as is how and where they should be measured.
And while state law limits turbine noise, the state office that once enforced industrial noise laws, housed within the Department of Environmental Quality, was disbanded in 1991, long before wind power became a state priority.
''We have the regulations still on the books, and entities are expected to comply with those regulations,'' said William Knight, a spokesman for the Department of Environmental Quality. ''But there really isn't anybody from D.E.Q. going around to find out if that's occurring. I'm not sure who you'd call out there in Columbia Gorge.''
Local government is one answer. In May, after testimony from private acoustic experts, the Morrow County Planning Commission agreed with Mr. Eaton, his wife, Sherry, and a small group of other opponents that Willow Creek, a wind farm directly behind the Eatons' modest house on Highway 74, was indeed exceeding allowable noise levels. The commission ordered the company that operates the site, Invenergy, to come into compliance within six months.
Invenergy quickly appealed -- and so did the Eatons and their allies. The county's board of commissioners also asked the planning commission to clarify its decision. A hearing is scheduled for this month.
''The appeals were all based on the same questions,'' said Carla McLane, the county planning director. ''What does 'not in compliance' mean, and what does it take to be in compliance in six months?''
Opponents say the constant whooshing from the turbines makes them anxious and that the low-level vibrations keep them awake at night. Some say it gives them nausea and headaches. Many other residents say they hear little or nothing at all, and the question of whether windmill noise can harm health is in dispute.
Critics say those complaining about Willow Creek are just angry that they were not able to lease their land to wind developers. Some opponents say they would be happy if Invenergy just turned certain turbines off at night, but others say they want reimbursement for losing their pastoral way of life.
''What we're really trying to do is get Invenergy to the bargaining table,'' said Dan Williams, a builder who is part of the group frustrated with the noise from Willow Creek.
While Invenergy is still dealing with the noise issue even after Willow Creek, which has 48 turbines, has been up and running for more than 18 months, Caithness Energy, the company asking some residents to sign waivers allowing noise to exceed certain limits, hopes it can solve the issue upfront. It also has more at stake.
Caithness is building a much larger wind farm adjoining Willow Creek called Shepherd's Flat. The new farm is expected to have 338 turbines and generate more than 900 megawatts when it is completed in 2013, which would make it one of the largest wind facilities in the country.
Large farms like Shepherd's Flat are regulated by the state. Tom Stoops, the council secretary for the Oregon Energy Facility Siting Council, said that large projects must prove they will comply with the noise ordinance and that noise waivers, or easements, are among the solutions. Asked if it was common for companies to pay people to sign such easements, Mr. Stoops said, ''That's probably a level of detail that doesn't come to us.''
Ms. Pilz, the local Caithness representative, did not volunteer the information that Caithness offers people money to sign noise easements, though she eventually confirmed in an interview that it did. She also would not say how much money it offers, though several property owners said she had offered them $5,000.
''What we don't do in general is change the market price for a waiver,'' Ms. Pilz said. ''That's not fair.''
Some people who did not sign said that Ms. Pilz made them feel uncomfortable, that she talked about how much Shepherd's Flat would benefit the struggling local economy and the nation's energy goals, and that she suggested they were not thinking of the greater good if they refused.
''The lady that came said everyone else signed,'' said Jarrod Ogden, 33, a farmer whose house would be directly opposite several 300-foot turbines once Shepherd's Flat is completed. ''But I know for a fact that some people didn't. I'm all for windmills, but I'm not going to let them buy me like that. I think they're just trying to buy cheap insurance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some families in the vicinity of Ione, Ore., have complained to the county planning commission that noise from the Willow Creek Wind Farm, which borders their homes, exceeds allowed levels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); NOISE POLLUTION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (85%); ORDINANCES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (77%); NUISANCE (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%); TAX LAW (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



4 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: When Family Ties Bind Business Relationships

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN. 
E-mail: ccouch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Q. The bleak job market has you considering working in a family member's business. What are the biggest differences between working for relatives and working for strangers?
A. Keep in mind that relatives are typically focused on relationships and loyalty, whereas in business the focus is on goals, competence and growth, says Greg McCann, a professor of family business at Stetson University in DeLand, Fla., and author of ''When Your Parents Sign the Paychecks.''
When the two are combined, the results can be mixed. On the one hand, ''Working with or for family can be a source of strength, because you have trust, shared values and long-term commitments to each other,'' Mr. McCann says. On the other hand, relatives sometimes take advantage of their relationships by coming in late, leaving early or trying to get paid more, he says. 
One of the biggest risks of working for a family business is that if something goes wrong, the damage can go beyond the job to your personal life, he says.
Q.What kind of due diligence should be done before taking a job working with relatives?
A. Make sure there is a path for advancement, says David R. Specht, a family business consultant and a lecturer in family business management at the University of Nebraska's College of Business Administration in Lincoln.
When working with relatives, Mr. Specht says, you often must manage your career, because there may be no formal process for promotion or development. ''Discuss what kinds of hurdles you'll need to overcome to be a leader there; otherwise you could wind up as more of a hired hand than as someone on a professional path,'' he says.
You want to know up front what your long-term job prospects are and what could limit you. ''If it's your brother's business and he's got three daughters being groomed as successors,'' Mr. McCann says. ''you'll probably never make it to the top.''
Ask about contingency plans. Mr. Specht says: ''If it's your uncle's business, what happens if he dies or is disabled? Does the business dissolve? Make sure there is a succession plan in place.''
Q. Because you needed a job, a spot was created for you in a relative's company. Might employees there -- especially those who aren't family -- resent that?
A. ''There could be a lot of friction with nonfamily employees, who are worried about the tough economic times and know the business isn't hiring,'' Mr. Specht says. ''They could feel their own jobs are now in jeopardy.''
It's important to view the position as an opportunity and not just as a place to park yourself until the job market improves. Hold yourself to a very high standard, advises Graham Chapman, who took a job with his father's marketing firm, 919 Marketing Company in Holly Springs, N.C., after graduating from college in 2009.
Mr. Chapman -- who had few job prospects at the time -- started in an entry-level spot but was soon working in a new position developing new business. ''I was concerned about being in a situation where others at the firm resented me and thought I was getting favors,'' he says. ''To avoid that, I knew I would have to work harder than others and have results fairly quickly.''
Q.Even though you're working with family, should you have an employment contract or other written agreements in place beforehand?
A. If the business owner is a fairly close relative, a formal employment agreement is probably overkill, but you should have a written description of your role and responsibilities and the organizational structure, says Mark T. Green, a partner in the Family Business Consulting Group who works in Salem, Ore., and a clinical professor of family business at Seattle University. ''Work as much out as possible upfront, like expectations about compensation, perks, even what happens if things don't work out, because if you leave you still have to see these people at family gatherings,'' says Mr. Green, whose consulting group is based in Marietta, Ga.
Q.Even if it wasn't your first choice in terms of a career move, what are the benefits of working with family?
A. You will likely wind up with exposure to more parts of the business in a shorter time frame than you would in a corporate setting, because of your access to top leaders, Mr. Green says. Many family-run businesses are small, and that will probably give you the opportunity to wear different hats.
There is also a feeling of loyalty and a sense of mission when you work with relatives. ''You want to win for the family. There's a feeling of 'If I do well, you do well' that gives the job purpose and meaning,'' says Larry H. Colin, co-author of ''Family, Inc.''
Mr. Colin says family members often have a greater tolerance for mistakes and bad decisions than nonfamily members and are generally more willing to accommodate work-life balance.
Working with family isn't always easy, he says: ''But when it works -- and it works a lot -- there's nothing better.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); FAMILY (91%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SUCCESSION PLANS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: STETSON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (72%); NEBRASKA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



5 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: $200 Text Vs. Free. You Do The Math.

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
INFURIATING Scott G. McNealy has never been easier. Just bring up math textbooks.
Mr. McNealy, the fiery co-founder and former chief executive of Sun Microsystems, shuns basic math textbooks as bloated monstrosities: their price keeps rising while the core information inside of them stays the same.
''Ten plus 10 has been 20 for a long time,'' Mr. McNealy says. 
Early this year, Oracle, the database software maker, acquired Sun for $7.4 billion, leaving Mr. McNealy without a job. He has since decided to aim his energy and some money at Curriki, an online hub for free textbooks and other course material that he spearheaded six years ago.
''We are spending $8 billion to $15 billion per year on textbooks'' in the United States, Mr. McNealy says. ''It seems to me we could put that all online for free.''
The nonprofit Curriki fits into an ever-expanding list of organizations that seek to bring the blunt force of Internet economics to bear on the education market. Even the traditional textbook publishers agree that the days of tweaking a few pages in a book just to sell a new edition are coming to an end.
''Today, we are engaged in a very different dialogue with our customers,'' says Wendy Colby, a senior vice president of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. ''Our customers are asking us to look at different ways to experiment and to look at different value-based pricing models.''
Mr. McNealy had his own encounter with value-based pricing models while running Sun. The company had thrived as a result of its specialized, pricey technology. And then, in what seemed liked a flash, Sun's business came undone as a wave of cheaper computers and free, open-source software proved good enough to handle many tasks once done by Sun computers.
At first, Sun fought the open-source set, and then it joined the party by making the source code to its most valuable software available to anyone.
Too little, too late. Sun's sales continued to decline, making it vulnerable to a takeover.
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt and other top textbook publishers now face their, forgive me, moment in the sun.
Over the last few years, groups nationwide have adopted the open-source mantra of the software world and started financing open-source books. Experts -- often retired teachers or groups of teachers -- write these books and allow anyone to distribute them in digital, printed or audio formats. Schools can rearrange the contents of the books to suit their needs and requirements.
But progress with these open-source texts has been slow.
California and Texas dominate the market for textbooks used in kindergarten through high school, and publishers do all they can to meet these states' requirements and lock in their millions of students for years.
Both states have only recently established procedures that will let open-source textbooks begin making their way through the arduous approval process. Last year, Texas passed a law promoting the use of open, digital texts and is reviewing material that might be used in schools.
In California, a state board is studying whether open texts meet state requirements. The CK-12 Foundation, a nonprofit financed by another Sun co-founder, Vinod Khosla, has created several texts that have met the board's criteria.
''In three and a half years, we have developed nine of the core textbooks for high school,'' says Neeru Khosla, Mr. Khosla's wife and the head of CK-12. ''If you don't try this, nothing will change.''
Aneesh Chopra, the federal chief technology officer, promoted an open physics textbook from CK-12 in his previous role as the secretary of technology for Virginia, which included more up-to-date materials than the state's printed textbooks.
''We still had quotes that said the main component of a television was a cathode ray tube,'' Mr. Chopra says. ''We had to address the contemporary nature of physics topics.''
Eric Frank, the co-founder of Flat World Knowledge, argues that there is a huge financial opportunity in outflanking the traditional textbook makers. His company homes in on colleges and gives away a free online version of some textbooks. Students can then pay $30 for a black-and-white version to be printed on demand or $60 for a color version, or they can buy an audio copy.
About 55 percent of students buy a book, Mr. Frank said, adding that the leading calculus book from a traditional publisher costs more than $200.
Publishers have started de-emphasizing the textbook in favor of selling a package of supporting materials like teaching aids and training. And companies like Houghton Mifflin have created internal start-ups to embrace technology and capture for themselves some of the emerging online business.
They are responding in much the same way traditional software makers did when open-source arrived, by trying to bundle subscription services around a core product that has been undercut.
Ms. Colby of Houghton Mifflin puts the state of affairs politely: ''I think the open-source movement is opening a whole new conversation, and that is what is exciting to us.''
Mr. McNealy wants to make sure there is a free, innovative option available for schools as this shift occurs.
Curriki has made only modest strides, but Mr. McNealy has pledged to inject new life. He wants to borrow from Sun's software development systems to create an organized framework for collecting educational information.
In addition, he wants the organization to help build systems that can evaluate educational material and monitor student performance. ''I want to assess everything,'' he says.
MR. McNEALY, however, has found that raising money for Curriki is tougher than he imagined, even though so many people want to lower the cost of education.
''We are growing nicely,'' he says, ''but there is a whole bunch of stuff on simmer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott G. McNealy, with his 12-year-old son, Dakota. Mr. McNealy is trying to bring open-source textbooks to classrooms, from kindergarten to high school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTBOOKS (94%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (89%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TAKEOVERS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



6 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Andy Frankl

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Frankl, 61, is the president and founder of IBEX Construction, a company based in New York that specializes in stores and commercial interiors.
The company's projects include the Plaza Hotel retail space, the food service facilities at the new JetBlue terminal at J.F.K. Airport and the headquarters of the New York City chapter of the American Institute of Architects.
Q Is there a story behind the IBEX name? 
A An ibex is a goat that has long, almost straight horns, and it navigates difficult terrain with ease -- similar to being in the construction business in New York.
Q How is the business terrain?
A Business is getting better. We've all been through a difficult time, but several years ago I kind of saw it coming and so we diversified our business. We do less out-of-the-ground work now because of the economy.
Q What are you working on?
A A lot of stuff this year. We're just finishing an out-of-the-ground headquarters on 166th Street by Columbia Presbyterian for Alianza Dominicana, an agency for Dominican immigrants. That's going to be complete within the next couple of months.
We're doing something for the Claremont School in the Cunard Building. We're doing a store for Orianne Collins, a build-out on 60th and Madison. Orianne is a jewelry designer who was married to Phil Collins, the singer. Then we're doing the Rubin Museum of Art on 17th Street. And we have another project for Nordstrom in Christiana, Del.
We always have stuff in the planning stages. Our backlog is about six months.
Q How does this backlog compare with other years?
A At the peak it was two years. A year ago, the bottom kind of dropped out.
Q Was it difficult working on the Cunard Building because of its landmark designation?
A It took many, many months of planning and permitting with the city and consulting with the Landmarks Commission until it was finally approved.
It's a very complicated job. We've had to take out floors and columns and enlarge part of the space for a gymnasium and a four-lane pool. We had to hoist steel beams -- each one of them weighs maybe 10 tons -- and go over the building and into the airshaft. We built a whole trolley system, which is like building another building.
Q What are construction costs like these days?
A Everything in construction has gone down substantially in the past two years. My guess is that it's down 10 to 15 percent. The five years before that it had gone up sharply.
Q What are some of the hot new materials for interiors?
A There are a lot of man-made stones, for example. Used to be, you'd go to Italy to the quarry and get the stone; today they make it synthetic. You couldn't tell if it's limestone or concrete. A lot of metals and a lot of the finishes that we use are very high-tech. Computers can help make things that you can't do by hand, like curved surfaces.
Q Have you ever encountered a design that wasn't buildable?
A The more difficult, the better I love it.
Q What has been your most difficult project?
A Probably the Claremont.
Q And your biggest?
A Probably one of the Nordstrom stores. We built 10 of them, including Roosevelt Field and Short Hills. From the outside it's a big box, but from inside it's quite intricate and very high-end. We do everything.
Q How long does it take to build a big-box store like that?
A It takes about 14 months from start to finish.
Q What attracted you to the construction industry?
A It kind of came to me. When I was a kid, I was studying architecture at Cooper Union, and they sent me to the woodworking shop at school to build a model. I just loved working with my hands. Pretty soon I started to build stuff for people. So I became a contractor, and one thing led to another. First I was doing residential. I was doing the apartments for the stars: Diane Keaton, Richard Chamberlain.
Q Some of your family members, including your mother, were Holocaust survivors. How has that affected who you are today?
A It's everything that I am, and I guess it makes me a survivor as well. I was named after my mother's little brother who was killed. My mom was in a ''Schindler's List'' type of thing. This guy took her in and other Jews, and they worked in his studio where they painted. She is one of the people I know who sees the glass as half full. She finds something good in everyone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (72%); APPROVALS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); JEWELRY (64%); HISTORIC SITES (61%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (57%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



7 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Is It Hot in Here? Must Be Global Warming.

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
In any debate over climate change, conventional wisdom holds that there is no reflex more absurd than invoking the local weather.
And yet this year's wild weather fluctuations seem to have motivated people on both sides of the issue to stick a finger in the air and declare the matter resolved -- in their favor.
''Within psychology, it's called motivated reasoning, or the confirmation bias,'' explained Anthony Leiserowitz, the director of the Project on Climate Change Communication at Yale University's School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. ''People are looking for evidence of any kind that validates or reinforces or justifies what they already believe.'' 
Last February, for example, as a freak winter storm paralyzed much of the East Coast, relatives of Senator James M. Inhofe, the Oklahoma Republican who is a skeptic of climate change, came to Washington and erected an igloo.
They topped it with a cheeky sign asking passers-by to ''Honk if you global warming.'' Another sign, added later, christened the ice dome ''Al Gore's new home.''
Environmentalists roundly criticized the stunt for relying on a fact as lonely as a snowstorm. ''Weather is our day-to-day experience, while climate is more static, describing a region's typical weather conditions as established over periods of time,'' explained Adrianna Quintero, a senior attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council, in a blog post scolding the deniers.
Now, with record heat searing much of the planet from Minnesota to Moscow, people long concerned with global warming seem to be pointing out the window themselves.
''As Washington, D.C., wilts in the global heat wave gripping the planet, the Democratic leadership in the Senate has abandoned the effort to cap global warming pollution for the foreseeable future,'' wrote Brad Johnson at the progressive Wonk Room blog, part of the Center for American Progress.
Of course, it's probably not surprising that outspoken partisans sometimes use the weather as a rhetorical tool, but researchers are also learning that many less certain people unwittingly take note of temperatures, too.
Mr. Leiserowitz has identified what he and fellow researchers call ''Global Warming's Six Americas'' -- from people who are ''alarmed,'' ''concerned'' or merely ''cautious'' on climate change, to those who are ''disengaged,'' ''doubtful'' or wholly ''dismissive.''
For people at either extreme -- that is, those alarmed by or dismissive of climate change -- the local weather isn't going to have much influence, although they may use it conveniently to drive home a point.
But for those in the mushy middle -- about a third of the overall population -- the local weather, rightly or wrongly, influences their thoughts on the topic, often subconsciously.
That idea is reinforced by another study under review at the journal Psychological Science. Researchers at Columbia University found a high correlation between a participant's stance on global warming and how he perceived the outdoor temperature on the day he was asked about it. Study subjects were also more likely to say they would donate to a global warming charity on days they perceived to be unusually warm.
For Eric J. Johnson, the director of the Center for Decision Sciences at Columbia Business School and a co-author of the study, the findings highlight the pitfalls of policymaking by poll, given that opinions on such a complex issue appear susceptible to highly impertinent data.
''It's like assessing how the economy is doing by looking at the change in your pocket,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''It's relevant, but not that relevant.''
There is a not-insignificant caveat: Those pointing to hot weather as evidence of global warming are, in the broadest sense, more likely to be right. Scientists at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Colorado demonstrated last year that record high temperatures have occurred twice as often as record lows over the last decade.
That's in keeping with most models of global warming, which predict not a steady climb in temperature, but higher average readings over time -- and more record-breaking peaks than valleys.
Whether that makes it fair to consciously lean on the weather when it's convenient is an open question -- though it appears hard for either side to resist.
In 1988, James Hansen, a NASA climate scientist, spoke at a Senate hearing and famously thrust the issue of global warming on the national stage.
But he apparently had some help in making his point.
We ''went in the night before and opened all the windows, I will admit, right? So that the air-conditioning wasn't working inside the room,'' recalled Timothy Wirth, the former Democratic senator from Colorado, in an interview with ''Frontline'' in 2007.
Mr. Hansen was ''wiping his brow at the witness table,'' Mr. Wirth said, ''and giving this remarkable testimony.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: Where Temperatures Strayed From Average: NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies assembles temperature maps that show each month's variations from historical averages. Here are the two latest maps available. Colors indicate how global surface temperatures compare with average temperatures for the same time of year from 1951 to 1980. (Source: NASA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); WEATHER (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); JIM INHOFE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



8 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: What Recession? Condo Prices That Held Up

BYLINE: By JOTHAM SEDERSTROM

 BODY:
ON paper, the condominiums at 180 East 93rd Street in Carnegie Hill were tailor-made for an affluent Upper East Side family when they hit the market in 2008.
The building was to have seven floor-through four-bedroom apartments as well as green features like a garden irrigated with rain water, local and sustainable materials, and even geothermal heating from a private well. The units were priced at $5.4 million apiece, and sales began in August 2008 -- just a month before Lehman Brothers collapsed.
And as at hundreds of projects across New York City that hit the market in 2008 and 2009, interest in the East 93rd Street building slowed until the sales office at 1491 Lexington Avenue eventually scaled back hours. 
''Boring -- it was really boring at the sales office,'' said Richard Steinberg, an executive managing director at Warburg Realty who is overseeing sales on behalf of the developer, Greystone Property Development. ''We got so desperate we were buying 100 balloons at a time and standing by the door, handing them out to families as they walked past the 92nd Street Y. I mean, we were handing out balloons and decorating cupcakes.''
Many condo projects are now returning to the market after waiting out the downturn, at greatly reduced prices. But a few, including 180 East 93rd, have not budged from their prerecession prices. Among the developers' reasons are renewed confidence in the marketplace and a desire not to undercut owners who bought before the slump.
''It's to the developer's benefit to keep the price higher and instead offer concessions and incentives,'' said Vickey Barron, a senior vice president of Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''There's nothing worse than for people to purchase and find out their neighbor purchased it for a lot less.''
Greystone's gamble may have paid off. Mr. Steinberg said interest in the East 93rd Street condos soared in May, when the first model unit opened for showings. Almost at once, two condos went into contract at close to the original asking price of $5.4 million, he said.
''We hid for about a year and a half, but the minute we had this model apartment we tallied two sales,'' said Mr. Steinberg, who added that by paying off a construction loan early on the developer was able to keep prices the same without pressure from the bank.
At District NY, a condominium on Fulton Street in Lower Manhattan, sleek European design, a spa and rooftop reflecting pools created enough buzz in the summer of 2007 to lure potential buyers into negotiations for 123 of the 163 units there. But some three-dozen units that went into contract in those halcyon days stubbornly failed to close. As a result, the developer, Wonder Works Construction, dimmed the lights at its sales office until July 2009.
Stephen McArdle, a partner at Urban Marketing, the building's new marketing group, reopened the building's sales office and hosted parties for friends and family members of existing tenants. More important, common charges were reduced by 6.5 percent.
But there wasn't a reduction in prices, which range from $525,000 for studios to $3.42 million for penthouses. Since last summer, another 65 units went into contract, Mr. McArdle said.
''What I think we did very well is reposition the building for all the families coming to the area,'' he said. ''We got away from the glitz and glamour of the Calvin Klein commercials.''
Henry Justin, the developer of a condo conversion at 211 East 51st Street, took a different approach when his project stalled with about 30 percent of 70 units sold. After briefly cutting prices on some units by 5 percent, Mr. Justin chose instead to re-establish initial pricing and dangle an option to customize space, by combining, for example, a two-bedroom unit with a studio to create a smaller three bedroom. ''If I was to drop my price by $100 a square foot I'd be taking a loss of about $5 million,'' he said, noting that five more units have gone into contract since March.
But with the economy still uncertain, at least one developer who had intended to hold the line has flinched.
Despite clear views of the High Line, not one unit at +aRt, a condominium in Chelsea at 540 West 28th Street referred to as ''Plus Art,'' sold in the fall of 2008, said Stephen Kliegerman, the director of development marketing for Halstead Property. By November of that year, 90 unsold condos ranging from $850,000 to $1.4 million were taken off the market.
After marketing resumed in May, brokers at a grand reopening gala suggested that prices remained too high. Mr. Kliegerman and others involved with the project agreed to keep some units at 2008 levels while reducing prices by 10 percent for a second group of units. Mr. Kliegerman said several units had since gone into contract. ''We really wanted the market to speak to us,'' he said. ''In retrospect, if we had a crystal ball and we were able to jump back in time, we probably wouldn't have done anything differently because you never know until you get to the marketplace where those prices are going to be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STANDING FIRM: The developer of 180 East 93rd Street has not budged from the condominium's 2008 prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (92%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); GREEN BUILDING (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (71%)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (61%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (53%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



9 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Struggles to Deal With Latest Crisis as Floods Kill at Least 800

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD; Adam B. Ellick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Floods driven by record-breaking rainfall have killed at least 800 people and destroyed thousands of homes over the past week, officials said Saturday, in the latest disaster to test Pakistan's already strained government.
The crisis comes as the government is struggling to fight an Islamic insurgency and to cope with the aftermath of Wednesday's plane crash in which 152 people died in the fog- and rain-shrouded Himalayan foothills just outside this capital city. It was the deadliest domestic plane crash in Pakistan's history. 
Officials said the deluge was the worst since 1929 in northwest Pakistan, where water levels in dams continued to rise. And with more rain forecast for all but that part of the country, increasing the likelihood of more flash floods and landslides, government officials issued pleas for international aid.
''We are carrying out this rescue despite limited resources,'' Lutfur Rehman, a government official in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province, formerly the North-West Frontier Province, told The Associated Press. The area, already ravaged by terrorism that has led to a decline in the economy, needed more helicopters and boats to aid in rescues, he said.
Also hit hard was the Swat Valley, where the government has been working on reconstruction after last year's military operation there to remove the militants; of the 65 bridges washed away by the rains, 25 were in Swat.
The sheer scale of the floods and the government's inability to provide immediate relief has led to widespread resentment and bitterness among those affected. Displaced people have contacted local reporters and accused government officials of apathy and incompetence.
''Someone lost his brother, someone lost his sister,'' a man from Nowshera, one of the hardest-hit districts, told a local news station. ''There is nothing to eat. There is no drinking water. We need food. We need tents. Where is the government?''
The disaster and any perception of government mismanagement could further distance the country's leaders from their people. Many Pakistanis are already angry with the leadership for allowing the United States to send drone aircraft to kill members of Al Qaeda and the Taliban taking shelter there, and they blame the airstrikes for waves of terrorist attacks in Pakistan.
President Asif Ali Zardari, who is scheduled to visit Britain this week, has already been criticized by his political opponents, who want him to cancel his trip and focus on relief efforts.
The request for foreign aid comes a year after the country received extensive international support for millions of its citizens who were displaced during the army's war with the Taliban.
Since then, money from the United States continues to flow in, mostly recently on July 19 when Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton arrived in Islamabad with $500 million in economic aid. But donations from other parts of the world have slowed because of donor fatigue and concerns that Pakistan has failed to comply with economic reforms.
The Friends of Democratic Pakistan, a consortium of donor countries, has disbursed only about $650 million out of $2.2 billion in pledges for 2010.
On Saturday, television stations broadcast grim images of people stranded on rooftops and wading through muddy water as they waited for rescuers or tried to recover valuables from houses.
A man identified only as from Charsadda told the AAJ television network that his whole village had been forced to spend the night by the roadside. ''We have lost everything,'' he said. ''Nothing is left.''
Thirty-thousand Pakistani Army troops, 21 Army helicopters and 150 boats had been deployed to carry out rescue and relief operations, Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas, the army spokesman, said Saturday.
''Nineteen-thousand people have been rescued from the marooned areas,'' General Abbas said. ''The level of destruction is so widespread, so it is possible that in some areas deaths and damages haven't been fully reported.''
Amjad Ali, a rescue worker in Nowshera, called conditions ''very bad. They have no water, no food.''
In Charsadda, Nabi Gul, who estimated that he was about 70 years old, stood shaking at the site of a rubble heap that just a day earlier had been his house.
''I built this house with my life's earnings and hard work, and the river has washed it away,'' he said in a trembling voice. ''Now I wonder, will I be able to rebuild it? And in this time, when there are such great price hikes?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pakistanis on Saturday crossed a main highway damaged by a flood in Charsadda, in northwestern Pakistan, near the border with Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMAD SAJJAD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORISM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (86%); WEATHER (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); HISTORY (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ARMIES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); LANDSLIDES (68%); HELICOPTERS (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); RELIGION (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (66%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMALAYAS (79%) PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



10 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: WHY WE TRAVEL

 BODY:
Near Paleochora, Crete, Aug. 26, 2009. ''My brother Hamish Williams was working in Budapest and lost his job last year when the economy crashed. He had nothing to do and nowhere to go, so he bought an old Volkswagen bus, nicknamed Piglet, and headed south for Greece. I joined him for a week in Crete, and we spent our time camping and traveling and meeting people from all over the world like we did in our 20s. Keep in mind we are both in our 40s now and are supposed to have settled down. Travel is freedom, and the smallest things become an adventure. It's a departure from the everyday that reminds you that there is a huge world out there worth exploring.'' Timothy Williams, Indianapolis 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY WILLIAMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%) INDIANA, USA (50%) HUNGARY (90%); GREECE (73%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



11 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: In a Downturn, Even Knockoffs Go Downscale

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
In this economy, even counterfeiters are trading down.
After years of knocking off luxury products like $2,800 Louis Vuitton handbags, criminals are discovering there is money to be made in faking the more ordinary -- like $295 Kooba bags and $140 Ugg boots. In California, the authorities recently seized a shipment of counterfeit Angel Soft toilet paper.
The shift in the counterfeiting industry, which costs American businesses an estimated $200 billion a year, plays to recession-weary customers looking for downmarket deals, the authorities say. And it has been fueled in part by factories sitting idle in China. Almost 80 percent of the seized counterfeit goods in the United States last year were produced in China, where the downturn in legitimate exports during the recession left many factories looking for goods -- in some cases, any goods -- to produce.
''If there is demand, there will be supply,'' said John Spink, associate director of the Anti-Counterfeiting and Product Protection Program at Michigan State University. In China, he said, ''It's all of a sudden them saying, 'We have low capacity. What can we make?' '' 
The answer is increasingly knockoffs of lesser-known brands, which are easy to sell on the Internet, can be priced higher than obvious fakes, and avoid the aggressive programs by the big luxury brands to protect their labels, retail companies and customs enforcement officials say.
The results: Faux Samantha Thavasa bags for $113 and Ed Hardy hoodie sweatshirts for $82.50. And, bizarrely, imitations that are more expensive than the real ones: In 2007, Anya Hindmarch sold canvas totes that said ''I'm Not a Plastic Bag'' for $15. Now fakes are available on the Web for $99.
''If it's making money over here in the U.S., it's going to be reverse-engineered or made overseas,'' said Jonathan Erece, a trade enforcement coordinator for United States Customs and Border Protection in Long Beach, Calif. ''It's like a cat-and-mouse game.''
The traders in mid-price fakes are employing another new trick: by pricing the counterfeits close to retail prices -- which they can do when the original product is not too expensive -- they entice unsuspecting buyers. Any savvy shopper, for example, knows a Louis Vuitton bag selling for $100 cannot be the real thing. But when NeimanMarcus.com, an authorized retailer for Kooba bags, sells them for $295, and a small Web site sells them for $190, a deal-hunting consumer could think she has scored a bargain. (She hasn't. The $190 bag is a fake.)
''If the price points are somewhat close, some consumers get duped into believing they're getting a real product,'' said Robert Barchiesi, president of the International AntiCounterfeiting Coalition, a trade group. ''They might be looking for a bargain, but a bargain to buy real goods.''
The counterfeiters are also lifting photos and text from legitimate Web sites, further fooling some shoppers.
''The consumer is blind as to the source of the product,'' said Leah Evert-Burks, director of brand protection for Ugg Australia's parent company, the Deckers Outdoor Corporation. ''Counterfeit Web sites go up pretty easily, and counterfeiters will copy our stock photos, the text of our Web site, so it will look and feel like'' the company site, she said.
While all of it is illegal, the authorities do not publish statistics on what brands' products are being counterfeited. But designers and trade experts said the downmarket trend in counterfeiting became more noticeable over the last year, as counterfeiters got more inventive. The field is big: the total value of counterfeit goods seized by United States customs officials increased by more than 25 percent each year from 2005 to 2008, using the government's fiscal calendar. In fiscal 2009, as imports over all dropped by 25 percent, the value of counterfeit products seized dropped by only 4 percent to $260.7 million.
The official statistics capture only a piece of the problem, companies and experts say, because so many counterfeiters market directly to customers on the Internet and many of those sales go undetected by the authorities.
''Online is much harder'' to patrol and enforce, said Todd Kahn, general counsel for Coach, the handbag and accessories company.
That is particularly true for smaller brands, as Anna Corinna Sellinger, co-founder and creative director of the New York clothing and accessories company Foley & Corinna, learned.
A couple of years ago, she began checking out which Foley & Corinna items were selling on eBay. Her city tote, which now retails for $485, was a popular item, but on some listings ''there was something off -- it's a color I never did, or a leather I never did,'' she said.
As other sites proliferated, and Ms. Corinna Sellinger noticed more and more Internet fakes, she stopped looking altogether. ''It's just too frustrating,'' she said. ''You can try to do something, but it's so big and so fast.''
While Ms. Corinna Sellinger basically had herself and a computer to patrol for fakes, big companies use legal teams who train customs officials on the nuances of their product, monitor the Web, ask Internet service providers to take down copycat sites and file lawsuits against sellers. (The brands only go after sellers; the law in the United States does not prohibit consumers from buying counterfeit products.)
Ugg Australia, the popular boot brand, developed a full enforcement program after it realized how prevalent copies of its boots were. In 2009, 60,000 pairs of boots were confiscated by customs agents globally, Ms. Evert-Burks said. In the same year, the company took down 2,500 Web sites selling fake products, along with 20,000 eBay listings and 150,000 listings on other trading sites like Craigslist and iOffer. That's despite the relatively low price of real Ugg boots, which cost around $140 for a basic model.
Under similar programs, Versace won $20 million in a recent lawsuit against counterfeiters, while Gucci, Louis Vuitton and other luxury brands have been pursuing similar cases. Coach last year announced ''Operation Turnlock,'' in which it would file civil lawsuits against counterfeiters, and it has sued 230 times, Mr. Kahn said. At Liz Claiborne Inc., which owns brands like Juicy Couture and Kate Spade, the company has gone after 52 Web sites selling counterfeits, and removed 27,000 auction listings so far this year.
The lesson for many counterfeiters has been that they have a better chance of getting away with it if they copy smaller brands like Foley & Corinna -- even though Foley & Corinna, while popular with celebrities and fashion types, is not widely recognized as a status brand and its bags can be had for as little as $126 on the brand's own Web site.
''Once it's out there a lot, people won't even want the real one because then they're like, 'People are going to think it's fake,' '' Ms. Corinna Sellinger said. ''It takes the product away from the designer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On Broadway in New York, shoppers can pick up items of questionable authenticity, and not just of the top luxury brands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Above, counterfeit boots are destroyed in Australia after a court sided with Deckers Outdoor, owners of the Ugg boot line. At left, a border and customs officer at the Port of Long Beach inspects a toy for entry into the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES TOURTELLOTTE) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (92%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); LUGGAGE MFG (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); REVERSE ENGINEERING (73%); BRANDING (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (70%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (93%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (93%); LVMH (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



12 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: The Great (Double) Game

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The trove of WikiLeaks about the faltering U.S. war effort in Afghanistan has provoked many reactions, but for me it contains one clear message. It's actually an old piece of advice your parents may have given you before you went off to college: ''If you are in a poker game and you don't know who the sucker is, it's probably you.''
In the case of the Great Game of Central Asia, that's us. 
Best I can tell from the WikiLeaks documents and other sources, we are paying Pakistan's Army and intelligence service to be two-faced. Otherwise, they would be just one-faced and 100 percent against us. The same could probably be said of Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai. But then everyone out there is wearing a mask -- or two.
China supports Pakistan, seeks out mining contracts in Afghanistan and lets America make Afghanistan safe for Chinese companies, all while smiling at the bloody nose America is getting in Kabul because anything that ties down the U.S. military makes China's military happy. America, meanwhile, sends its soldiers to fight in Afghanistan at the same time that it rejects an energy policy that would begin to reduce our oil consumption, which indirectly helps to fund the very Taliban schools and warriors our soldiers are fighting against.
So why put up with all this duplicity? Is President Obama just foolish?
It is more complicated. This double game goes back to 9/11. That terrorist attack was basically planned, executed and funded by radical Pakistanis and Saudis. And we responded by invading Iraq and Afghanistan. Why? The short answer is because Pakistan has nukes that we fear and Saudi Arabia has oil that we crave.
So we tried to impact them by indirection. We hoped that building a decent democratizing government in Iraq would influence reform in Saudi Arabia and beyond. And after expelling Al Qaeda from Afghanistan, we stayed on to stabilize the place, largely out of fears that instability in Afghanistan could spill into Pakistan and lead to Islamist radicals taking over Islamabad and its nukes.
That strategy has not really worked because Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are built on ruling bargains that are the source of their pathologies and our fears.
Pakistan, 63 years after its founding, still exists not to be India. The Pakistani Army is obsessed with what it says is the threat from India -- and keeping that threat alive is what keeps the Pakistani Army in control of the country and its key resources. The absence of either stable democracy in Pakistan or a decent public education system only swells the ranks of the Taliban and other Islamic resistance forces there. Pakistan thinks it must control Afghanistan for ''strategic depth'' because, if India dominated Afghanistan, Pakistan would be wedged between the two.
Alas, if Pakistan built its identity around its own talented people and saw its strategic depth as the quality of its schools, farms and industry, instead of Afghanistan, it might be able to produce a stable democracy -- and we wouldn't care about Pakistan's nukes any more than India's.
Saudi Arabia is built around a ruling bargain between the moderate al-Saud family and the Wahhabi fundamentalist establishment: The al-Sauds get to rule and the Wahhabis get to impose on their society the most puritanical Islam -- and export it to mosques and schools across the Muslim world, including to Pakistan, with money earned by selling oil to the West.
So Pakistan's nukes are a problem for us because of the nature of that regime, and Saudi Arabia's oil wealth is a problem for us because of the nature of that regime. We have chosen to play a double game with both because we think the alternatives are worse.
So we pay Pakistan to help us in Afghanistan, even though we know some of that money is killing our own soldiers, because we fear that just leaving could lead to Pakistan's Islamists controlling its bomb. And we send Saudi Arabia money for oil, even though we know that some of it ends up financing the very people we are fighting, because confronting the Saudis over their ideological exports seems too destabilizing. (Addicts never tell the truth to their pushers.)
Is there another a way? Yes. If we can't just walk away, we should at least reduce our bets. We should limit our presence and goals in Afghanistan to the bare minimum required to make sure that turmoil there doesn't spill over into Pakistan or allow Al Qaeda to return. And we should diminish our dependence on oil so we are less impacted by what happens in Saudi Arabia, so we shrink the funds going to people who hate us and we make economic and political reform a necessity for them, not a hobby.
Alas, we don't have the money, manpower or time required to fully transform the most troubled states of this region. It will only happen when they want it to. We do, though, have the technology, necessity and innovators to protect ourselves from them -- and to increase the pressure on them to want to change -- by developing alternatives to oil. It is time we started that surge. I am tired of being the sucker in this game.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); ARMIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); POKER (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); ENERGY REGULATION (70%); AL-QAEDA (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); TERRORISM (69%); CONSUMPTION (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); IRAQ (92%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



13 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CONNECTICUT DINING FROM THE FARM; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: An Enduring Summer Treat, Improved by Science

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
PAWCATUCK
WHIT DAVIS'S aging red Tacoma bounces up a rutted path to an isolated stand of corn -- 18 rows, each 720 feet long -- and one thing is immediately clear. The old saying ''knee-high by the Fourth of July'' does not apply to this red-hot summer's crop. It's just a few days past the Fourth, and the corn is already chin-high, with tassels, but no ears yet.
''Whatever Mother Nature gives us,'' said Mr. Davis, noting the corn's leaves curling from the protracted heat and little rain, ''that's what we have to be satisfied with.''
Nearly 86, Mr. Davis, whose full name is John Whitman Davis, has seen every manner of weather while tending the land his family has farmed here since 1654. He is also a one-man history of corn. The plant is a member of the grass family whose oldest incarnation, flint, is represented in this particular plot. Also known as Indian corn, it is hard as ''flint'' when it dries and suitable for grinding, which Mr. Davis still does, selling it as ''Jonny Cake'' meal. 
''It's as heirloom as you can get,'' he said with a chuckle. ''It's been around here a thousand years.''
But when it comes to sweet corn -- that enduring summer treat -- Mr. Davis embraces modernity. Like other growers in Connecticut, he has welcomed modifications to corn that, among other improvements, keep it fresher for a longer time -- a boon for consumers, too, though most are unaware that today's corn is not their grandfather's or even their father's corn.
Gone are the classic white, yellow and bicolor corns, though their names live on: Silver Queen is often used as a generic name for white corn, Golden Bantam for yellow and Butter and Sugar for bicolor corn. With their delicate genetics, the old varieties inspired mantras like, ''Walk to pick it, run to cook it'' because their sweet kernels turned starchy and gummy within a day of harvesting.
Known in the industry as standard, the classic corn varieties are rarely grown now -- replaced by hundreds, if not thousands, of hybrids with slower sugar-to-starch conversion, which gives growers enough time to ship them. Most of these hybrids are not genetically modified, and are rarely raised organically, since spraying is needed to control earworms.
At Connecticut farm stands, the most common of the new hybrids is called sugar-enhanced or sugary extender; it is reasonably sweet and will last several days. Supersweets are crisp, designed for long stays and serious manhandling at grocery stores, but many growers think they are tough and so sweet that the corn flavor is lost. Newer, extra-tender versions are gaining interest. Triplesweets, often known as synergistic and by several other names, literally have some sugar-enhanced and some supersweet kernels on the same cob.
All this was news to corn lovers lined up at a New Haven farmers' market about a week after July 4 to snatch the first corn of the season -- a bicolor sugar-enhanced called Temptation, from Stone Gardens in Shelton, which switches to synergistic for most of the rest of the season when the ground is warmer.
''I felt I had to eat this today or else I'd be really losing out,'' said Dale Saul of Branford. Ms. Saul and Helen Becker of New Haven, who bought four ears, said they were unaware of corn's changed chemistry.
Ms. Becker, 80, said she had lived on a farm as a child and appreciated fresh corn. ''Nothing like it,'' she said, adding that she had also bought some recently at a chain grocery store. ''No taste to it. I couldn't wait for this.''
Connecticut is certainly no corn-growing powerhouse, but it holds a hallowed place in American corn history. The high-yielding hybrid that revolutionized commercial sweet corn production was created by Donald Jones in the early 1900s at the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station in New Haven.
Today about 300 farms in Connecticut grow sweet corn on about 4,600 acres, according to National Agricultural Statistics Service information for 2007, the most recent year available. Most are small retail growers. The largest among the few big wholesale growers is Baggott Family Farms of East Windsor, with 750 acres of corn among its overall 2,000.
Tom Baggott said he grows a mixture including sugar-enhanced for farm stands and supersweet for chain stores. Using plastic on the ground and covers on rows of selected fields, he is widely credited with harvesting the earliest corn in New England -- this year on June 19 -- beating his own record. ''The earliest ever anybody had in New England was June 26 and that was us,'' he said.
Like other Connecticut growers, he concentrates on bicolor corn, which is preferred in New England -- for reasons no one can figure out, since color has no bearing on flavor. Some growers have also held on to a little white corn, but yellow corn is rare in this state.
Nelson Cecarelli of Cecarelli Farm in Northford (incorrectly spelled Ceccarelli on the Farmfresh Web site, which is not his) gave up on white corn four or five years ago and grows bicolor only now -- sugar-enhanced and triplesweet, although he challenges anyone to distinguish bicolor, white and yellow corns with their eyes closed. ''You couldn't taste the difference,'' he said.
Dave Burnham of Burnham Farm in East Hartford is even more exclusive: 375 acres of bicolor sugar-enhanced only, picked daily beginning at 1:30 a.m. for sale to small stands and wholesalers. He called the flavors of his crop and other hybrids ''unbelievable,'' but noted downsides, starting with much more expensive seed.
''These varieties are way more susceptible to drought or too much water,'' he added. ''They stress easy. That's a chance you take.''
But Jude Boucher, a commercial crop educator with the University of Connecticut Cooperative Extension Service, said the new varieties, on balance, were better: more productive and often resistant to things like corn rust, with ears that are larger and taste better than the old corn.
If you bit into the old corn and then bit into the new stuff, you'd say the old standard varieties were ''cow corn,'' he said.
Mr. Davis in Pawcatuck also thinks the old varieties, which he grew for decades, were less tender and tasty than the sugar-enhanced he grows now -- mostly a bicolor called Delectable and whites called Silver King and Silver Princess (derived from the old Silver Queen), but no yellow corn, even though it was the standard years ago.
''Economics,'' he said. ''You have to give people what they want.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANCIENT GRAINS: In addition to the hybrids, Mr. Davis grows hard flint corn, one of the plant's oldest incarnations. He grinds his flint corn, also known as Indian corn, and sells it as meal for Jonny Cakes.
 MODERN METHODS: Whit Davis's family has been farming for centuries, but he is embracing hybrid varieties of sweet corn that stay fresher longer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE MERGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (69%); FAMILY FARMS (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



14 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Shoe Leather and a Shoestring Budget

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN. 
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AFTER six years in a tiny East Village studio, Patrick Shindell was ready for a real home. ''It was like party heaven over there,'' he said. ''I felt like I was still in college. The apartment was the size of a dorm room.''
So last summer, Mr. Shindell decided to relinquish the $1,500 a month studio and hunt for an apartment at a bargain-basement price. His goal was to keep the down payment affordable for his mother and father, Mary and Dr. Richard Shindell, who live in Phoenix and would be co-buyers.
His mother was especially eager for him to buy a place. ''He is obviously never going to move back to Phoenix,'' she said. With interest rates and purchase prices low, ''I thought this might be the only time to look for an entry point into the Manhattan market.'' 
Mr. Shindell, 30, one of four brothers, graduated from the School of Visual Arts and works as a production manager for an animated television series.
He hoped to find a true one-bedroom for well under $300,000. ''I had brokers who just blew me off when I told them my price range, which was basically unrealistic,'' he said. ''I thought, maybe ...''
A friend referred him to Randy Green of Century 21 New York Metro. The first apartment they saw together last fall was a 600-square-foot one-bedroom in a sunny Kips Bay walk-up on East 24th Street. The co-op's list price was in the mid-$300,000s. But, at that point, Mr. Shindell had no basis for comparison. He and Mr. Green moved on.
They found a nice one-bedroom co-op on East 21st Street for only $289,000. The Shindells bid $265,000. Monthly maintenance was around $950. But, within days, an all-cash buyer bought the apartment at the asking price.
''I thought, there is no way we can compete,'' Mr. Shindell said.
In such a low price range, Mr. Green said, the few options ''garnered quite a bit of interest and didn't stay on the market very long.''
If a place wasn't incredibly small, ''there was something that made it that price,'' Mr. Shindell said -- usually a view of a brick wall. After several fruitless weeks of searching, the Kips Bay place began to look better. The Shindells negotiated a price of $345,000. Maintenance was around $850.
But there had been no sale in the building in about two years, and it had a low owner-occupancy rate. The family almost certainly wouldn't get financing, Mr. Green said. They decided not to pursue the apartment, which is now listed at $325,000 for ''cash-only buyers'' in an ''investor-friendly'' building.
Back in Phoenix, Mr. Shindell's mother was an avid consumer of photos and listings. She had no experience with New York real estate. ''I had to be educated in terms of co-ops,'' she said.
Mr. Shindell liked a ground-floor one-bedroom on far East 14 Street, for $300,000 with maintenance of around $600. ''There were no amenities, but for the price it was as good as you'll get,'' Mr. Green said.
The Shindells offered $280,000, but someone else's offer at the asking price was quickly accepted. The apartment later returned to the market: the deal had been done in by bedbugs, Mr. Shindell said.
On they went, racking up more letdowns. A one-bedroom at the Townsley, a white-brick building on East 35th Street, seemed promising. ''This one kept coming up, and the price kept going down,'' dropping from $375,000 to $335,000, Mr. Green said.
But maintenance was high, nearly $1,200, and something made Mr. Shindell hesitate -- possibly the dated interior, he said.
And the location just east of an exit from the Queens-Midtown Tunnel was a problem for Mrs. Shindell. ''I used my Phoenix way of looking at things,'' she said. ''You can buy a really great, really big house with a swimming pool if you are willing to drive an hour into work. I applied that theory, which was that location was the most important thing.'' She feared the place might prove hard to sell.
After more than six months -- and 59 apartments -- Mr. Shindell was finding that the frustration of the hunt outweighed the fun of it.
Then Mr. Green took Mr. Shindell to apartment No. 60, in the Riverview East on East 32nd Street. The 550-square-foot alcove studio, listed at $379,000, had plenty of storage and a sliding door that screened off the sleeping area, yet let light into the living room. The maintenance fee was around $1,000.
They referred to it as the ''green wall apartment,'' for its hideous green wall.
''I can fix that,'' Mr. Shindell said. He bid $362,000.
It wasn't clear that the building would allow parents to purchase with children, but the board agreed to consider the Shindells. Dr. Shindell, a pediatric orthopedic surgeon, found it almost impossible to leave Phoenix for a board interview. Summer, when school is out, is his busy season.
The co-op board ''was very understanding,'' Mr. Green said. Mr. Shindell set up the interview with his parents via Skype.
By the time Mrs. Shindell came to New York for the walk-through and the closing, she had overcome her sticker shock. ''But I don't think anybody from Phoenix can ever get used to the difference in the size,'' she said.
She was bothered by studios where the kitchen and the bed were visible at once -- and by those with a front door that opened directly into the bedroom or the kitchen. But this apartment didn't have those flaws.
Mr. Shindell had the green wall painted gray. He had the floors polished, too, and moved in last month.
''I feel really relieved that the whole thing is over,'' he said. ''I am so excited to live in a new place that I own.''
He is surprised at how bright his apartment becomes in the morning, and plans to invest in curtains. He faces east, toward the parking lot of Kips Bay Towers, with rooftops in the distance rather than a close-up brick wall. ''The view is amazing,'' he said. ''The view is not another building.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An all-cash buyer wrested away a one-bedroom on East 21st Street.
The Townsley on East 35th Street was too close to a tunnel exit.
A studio at Riverview East on East 32nd had good light and a view.
 Patrick Shindell's alcove studio has a screened off sleeping area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ANIMATION (67%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (52%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (52%); VISUAL ARTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



15 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Learning From WikiLeaks

BYLINE: By MITCHELL LaFORTUNE. 
Mitchell LaFortune, a former Army sergeant, was an intelligence analyst with the 82nd Airborne Division from 2006 to 2010.

 BODY:
Saco, Me.
LAST summer, as the nation's war effort and attention turned from Iraq to Afghanistan, the new United States commander there, Gen. Stanley McChrystal, insisted that the struggle was not about killing the enemy or capturing ground, but instead a ''war of perception.'' Given the general's recent firing, increasing deaths on the battlefield and the release last week of thousands of classified documents by WikiLeaks painting a dismal picture of the war effort, it is clear that we are losing badly in the war of perception.
I spent two deployments in Afghanistan writing strategic intelligence reports and briefings similar to what WikiLeaks just made public. True, what was leaked is not pleasant reading. Yet there is no question in my mind that the majority of analysts and officers who have served there, despite their political differences, believe not only that we should continue the fight but that we very much need to win it.
Why, then, have so many Americans come to a different conclusion recently -- including the 114 House members who voted against President Obama's war-financing bill on Tuesday? I think they fail to understand the complexity and scale of the war effort, which leads to a flawed analysis. 
For example, many have bemoaned the rash of sophisticated attacks in eastern Afghanistan. But allied attention has been focused on the easier fight of evicting the Taliban from the agrarian provinces of the south, not combating the more complex enemy in the east, where insurgent networks capitalize on political and cultural differences that will require an entirely different counterinsurgency strategy.
Many people also operate from a faulty assumption about the war's purpose. No matter what we've told the Afghans, the true goal of the American-led effort should not be to create a stable, honest government in Kabul. While that would be a great benefit, what's vital is that we keep in place the robust intelligence and quick-strike military structure we have developed in the country and across the Pakistan border.
Without these human intelligence collectors, communications experts and small-scale military operations, we would free the Taliban in Pakistan to focus on overthrowing the government in Islamabad. If they were to accomplish that feat, Al Qaeda would be given all the time it needs to reconstitute its network and undertake more attacks against the United States and its allies.
That said, there may be a benefit from the scrutiny the military is likely to face post-WikiLeaks. There are many problems with the way we are managing this war. Far too often during my deployments -- the first in 2007, the second last year -- I watched as operations were conducted out of logistical convenience rather than necessity. We often had troops avoid Taliban-controlled districts to limit civilian and military casualties. Because of the threat of homemade bombs, soldiers had to dress like Robocop while trying to interact with, and win the trust of, local leaders. And the rules of engagement are now so restrictive that I'm amazed that any insurgents were killed in the last year.
For years, the Western military's main focus has been to disrupt the supply lines that provide the insurgents with improvised explosives. This emphasis protects our troops but does little for the Afghan population, specifically creating a secure environment that would allow for economic growth in key cities like Khost, Gardez and Kandahar. This is crucial: if we can't revive the cities we will never make progress in the countryside, which is the ultimate battleground against the insurgents.
If we need a model, we should think about what Afghanistan was like in the 1970s. The country functioned relatively well with a weak central government, strong local leadership and a marginalized religious class. The resistance to the Soviet occupation, steeped in radical Islam, overturned that traditional power structure. By the time the Soviets left, the village mullah had a higher social standing than the tribal leader or local political representative. It was not hard to foresee the rise of the Taliban.
American and Afghan forces dislodged the Taliban government from Kabul in a matter of months, but they have done little to alter the power dynamic across the country. It is the religious figure, not the elected official or tribal elder, who is invariably asked to settle land disputes and other arguments. As I waded through reports from the field in Paktika Province last year, it became apparent that the people turned to Taliban-backed clerics and the Haqqani network, a ruthless terrorist movement allied with the Taliban, as the ultimate arbiters.
The key to turning around the war will be to change that dynamic. In fact, we must clamp down on the three things the Taliban do particularly well: manipulating the news media, intimidating the rural population and providing shadow governance.
The Taliban's media machine runs circles around our public information operations in Afghanistan. Using newspapers, radio broadcasts, the Internet and word of mouth, it puts out messages far faster than we can, exaggerating the effectiveness of its attacks, creating the illusion of a unified insurgency and criticizing the (real and imagined) failings of the Kabul government. To undermine support for United States troops, the Taliban insistently remind the people that America has committed to a withdrawal beginning next summer, they jump on any announcement of our Western allies pulling out troops and they publicize polls that show declining domestic American support for the war.
To counter the spin, we need to add the Taliban's top propagandists to the high-value-target list and direct military operations at the insurgents' media nerve centers. A major reason that people in rural areas are so reluctant to help us is that Taliban propaganda and intimidation have created an atmosphere of fear.
A second initiative is to bring back the traditional rural power structure. We have to restore the power of the tribal leader, the khan. Afghans are fond of saying that the thing they do best is politics; we must let them do it. This means moving toward a far weaker concept of central government and encouraging local solutions to local problems. American aid should go directly to rural communities rather than to the Karzai government. And we must identify key tribal leaders and local politicians and give them around-the-clock protection with American troops. It's astonishing how much credibility a village leader can gain simply by not being assassinated.
Last, we must destroy the credibility of the Taliban's religious authority. The insurgents' concept of Islam is objectionable to most Afghans, but there is little alternative, as most clerics who rejected the Taliban have been killed or have fled. While creating a network of more enlightened religious figures to compete with the hard-liners will take time, we could jump-start progress by creating a group of ''mobile mullahs'' -- well-protected clerics who can travel through rural areas and settle land disputes and other issues. These men should come from the general areas in which they will be performing their duties and be approved by community leaders.
We may not win General McChrystal's war of perception, but we cannot afford a military defeat in Afghanistan. A Taliban victory would not only threaten Pakistan's government, it would provide a dangerous precedent for other looming disaster zones like Yemen. The boot must be kept on the throat of extremism. Yet we do not need to maintain 100,000 troops in Afghanistan or create a sparkling democracy. We simply need to maintain the intelligence structure and military capacity that already exists, and put the power to defeat the insurgents in the hands of the locals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRORISM (77%); COUPS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); AL-QAEDA (64%)

PERSON: STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (73%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



16 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Catch of The Day

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON. 
Sam Sifton is the restaurant critic for The Times.

 BODY:
FOUR FISH
The Future of the Last Wild Food
By Paul Greenberg. 266 pp.
The Penguin Press. $25.95.
In the late fall of 2009, bluefin tuna came inshore along the New Jersey coast and began to crash the surface of the ocean, chasing bait. For days, fast, open fishing boats played run-and-gun with them across the waters near Deal and Asbury Park, not 30 miles from New York City as the gannet flies.
These were not giant bluefin, the 1,000-pound bullet trains so prized by the Japanese that they might sell for $100,000 or more. Those are almost gone now, as Paul Greenberg points out in his important and stimulating new book, ''Four Fish,'' which takes as its subject the global fisheries market and the relationship humans have with tuna, cod, sea bass and salmon. Giant bluefin tuna have been overharvested here and abroad as they travel north and south, east and west, heedless of international borders or treaties, their population hovering on the brink of total collapse.
These tuna were instead their progeny's progeny, fish of merely 75 or 150 pounds, the shape of huge, iridescent footballs. They are graceful as ballet dancers, and as strong, some of ''the wildest things in the world,'' as Greenberg calls them. 
A fishing guide I know well was out there and got a client close enough to a small pod of tuna to cast to it. The client got his fish, which is his own story. And a few hours later, my friend, driving north through Brooklyn with five pounds of ruby-red tuna belly resting on ice in the back of his car, called me to ask if I had any soy sauce.
I was newly installed as the restaurant critic of The New York Times and had spent the previous few months on a surreptitious tour of some of the city's best restaurants. I had been eating stupendously well. But nothing I had eaten that summer and fall prepared me for the taste of this tuna that late afternoon, for the intense blast of flavor and rich, creamy fattiness delivered by a cut of truly fresh otoro -- supreme tuna belly, in the parlance of the sushi bar -- not yet four hours old.
Nothing I had ever eaten could have. The bluefin tuna you get at restaurants, even the best ones, has been flash-frozen and thawed, is days -- or weeks -- old, has traveled thousands and thousands of miles. In a bite of that absolutely fresh tuna from New Jersey, I experienced a taste of truly wild food, a majestic flavor, something incredibly rare.
And as it melted on my tongue and receded into memory, I felt guilt and doubt and fear. Will my children, who demurred in eating the fish that day, ever have a chance to eat bluefin tuna? Will their children? Will anyone? Should they? What are we really to do with these fish?
Greenberg, a journalist who has contributed to The New York Times Magazine, has constructed a book that, even as it lays out the grim and complicated facts of common seas ravaged by separate nations, also manages to sound a few hopeful and exciting notes about the future of fish, and with it, the future of civilizations in thrall to the bounty of the sea.
The point of the book comes down to the push and pull of our desire to eat wild fish, and the promise and fear of consuming the farmed variety. As Greenberg follows his four species, and our pursuit of them, farther and farther out into the ocean, he posits the sense of privilege we should feel in consuming wild fish, along with the necessity of aquaculture.
Along the way, Greenberg raises real-life ethical questions of the sort to haunt a diner's dreams, the kind of questions that will not be easily answered by looking at the Monterey Bay Aquarium's seafood-watch card. In truth, he shows, there is rarely such a thing as a good wild fish for any of us to eat, at least not if all of us eat it.
Combining on-the-ground and on-the-ocean reporting from the Yukon to Greece, from the waters of Long Island Sound to the Mekong Delta, along with accounts of some stirring fishing trips, Greenberg makes a powerful argument: We must, moving forward, manage our oceans so that the fish we eat can exist both in aquacultural settings and within the ecosystems of wild oceans.
Wild fish were once everywhere, of course, in such numbers as to astound. (And still, Greenberg reports, the current global catch of wild fish measures 170 billion pounds a year, ''the equivalent in weight to the entire human population of China.'') Wild fish seemed to be, as Greenberg puts it, ''a crop, harvested from the sea, that magically grew itself back every year. A crop that never required planting.''
Once, Greenberg writes, as many as 100 million Atlantic salmon larvae hatched every year in the upper reaches of the Connecticut River and eventually made their way south to Long Island Sound, and north from there to Greenland before returning to the Berkshire foothills to spawn. Dams, overfishing and more dams still have taken their grim toll on their descendants. Today, every piece of Atlantic salmon you'll find at your local supermarket or fishmonger, smoked into lox, wrapped around mock crabmeat, or lying flat and orange against crushed ice, is farmed. As Greenberg explains clearly and well, the process by which that farming is undertaken threatens the future of what wild salmon remain here and in the Pacific. The amount of wild fish needed to feed farmed salmon, the threat of farmed salmon escaping and crossbreeding with wild salmon stocks, the rise of pollution from the farms themselves -- when it comes to the business of domesticating salmon, Greenberg writes, ''we should have chosen something else.''
Of course we did choose something else, some of us. That fish is sea bass -- branzino, as it's mostly called on restaurant menus now -- a species that once thrived in the wild along the coast of Europe, throughout the Mediterranean Sea and through the Strait of Gibraltar, along the western coasts of Portugal, Spain and France, north to England. No more, though the farmed version is a success story of ample proportions, as anyone who spends more nights than not in white-tablecloth restaurants can tell you.
Greenberg's accounting of the 2,000-year process of learning to farm sea bass, ''one that involved the efforts of ancient Roman fishermen, modern Italian poachers, French and Dutch nutritionists, a Greek marine biologist turned entrepreneur, and an Israeli endocrinologist,'' reads in parts like the treatment for a Hollywood film, a toga epic in fishy smell-o-vision.
And cod? As Greenberg writes, it fueled the American economy in its early days, and good parts of the European one, too. A five-foot wooden carving of the fish hangs from the ceiling in the Massachusetts State House, to celebrate its place in the region's history.
But industrial fishing of these tremendous and once common animals, by fishermen the world over, has led to terribly depleted stocks and closed fishing grounds -- and, Greenberg reports, to a turn toward wild Alaskan pollock to fill our desire for firm, white-fleshed fish to make fish sticks and battered-fish sandwiches, and from there toward farmed Vietnamese tra and African tilapia.
These shifts, of course, come with their own nightmares and possibilities, their own showcases of human frailty in the face of commerce, greed and hunger. Greenberg's reporting lays these out with care.
The story of the bluefin tuna, meanwhile, is one of the great tragedies of the modern age. This magnificent creature, once mostly shunned by the world's cooks and diners for its bloody flesh unsuitable for human consumption, now teeters almost on the edge of extinction, principally because the world's nations cannot agree to the one measure that will guarantee its future: a total ban on its commercial harvest, in all waters.
''The passion to save bluefin is as strong as the one to kill them,'' Greenberg writes, ''and these dual passions are often contained within the body of a single fisherman.'' ''Four Fish'' is a marvelous exploration of that contradiction, one that is reflected in the stance and behavior of all nations that fish. It is a necessary book for anyone truly interested in what we take from the sea to eat, and how, and why.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAHRE AND JUSTINA CHANG) (BR1)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU HANAI/REUTERS) (BR9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (86%); SPORT FISHING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); FISHERIES (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); BALLET (51%); DANCERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Four Fish: The Future of the Last Wild Food (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



17 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Parting Twin Curtains of Repression

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
CENSORSHIP has long been a fact of life for filmmakers in China, but in recent years no director has clashed with the Chinese authorities as often, or as visibly, as Lou Ye. At two of the last five editions of the Cannes Film Festival, with the global media spotlight trained on the south of France, Mr. Lou, 45, has walked up the red carpet to present a movie that was being screened, in competition, without the permission of the Film Bureau in Beijing.
In 2006 the offending entry was ''Summer Palace,'' a sweeping chronicle of a generation's political awakening and disillusionment, set in motion during the pro-democracy protests that led to the 1989 military crackdown in Tiananmen Square. In response to the unauthorized premiere, the bureau banned Mr. Lou and his producer Nai An from filmmaking for five years.
Last year Mr. Lou returned to Cannes with ''Spring Fever,'' a movie made in defiance of that ban, with a subject guaranteed to vex the Chinese censors. The story of a doomed gay affair -- and, by extension, of the ubiquity of sexual repression in present-day China -- the film went on to win the festival's best screenplay award for the writer Mei Feng; it opens Friday at the IFC Center in Manhattan. 
Shot surreptitiously in the eastern city of Nanjing, ''Spring Fever'' details the messy, sometimes melodramatic formation of two intersecting polysexual triangles involving five people: a married couple, the husband's secret gay lover, an investigator hired by the wife and the investigator's girlfriend. Freedom is the one theme Mr. Lou keeps returning to, and in film after film his position is that sexual and political freedom go hand in hand.
The overt references to the Tiananmen massacre in ''Summer Palace'' are practically unheard of in a mainland Chinese film. (''Lan Yu,'' a 2001 drama by the Hong Kong director Stanley Kwan, had referred to the incident.) Equally unprecedented is the ample full-frontal nudity. The sex and the politics are of a piece, in keeping with the vow of its heroine, played by the young actress Hao Lei, ''to live more and more intensely.''
In a recent e-mail exchange Mr. Lou said: ''Sex is an indispensable part of a natural human being. Starting from sex, each individual human being can learn how to frankly face himself and the freedom he has, and learn how to listen to and follow himself instead of others.''
Mr. Lou added that this inclination to think for oneself has long been absent from Chinese life: ''Ninety years ago politicians told us we had to believe in Marxism and Leninism. Fifty years ago they told us we had to follow Chairman Mao's words and join the Cultural Revolution with passion. Thirty years ago they told us we had to reform and open up. Ten years ago they told us that making money was of great importance, while two years ago they told us everything was for the Olympics.''
''We've always lived a life designated as without any consciousness,'' he continued. ''Maybe we could try to treat politics and history in the same way as we treat our daily sex life, with some frankness.''
His run-ins with censors have earned Mr. Lou a reputation as a political agitator, but it may be more accurate to think of him as a reckless romantic. ''Suzhou River'' (2000), his breakthrough film, is a noirish tale of obsessive passion set along the murky waterways of industrial Shanghai. ''Purple Butterfly'' (2003), starring Zhang Ziyi as a member of an anti-Japanese resistance group in the 1930s, is a moody, impressionistic cross between a period thriller and a dreamy love story.
Mr. Lou's films are notable for their sprawling reach and sense of headlong motion, with anxious rhythms and an ever-mobile camera to match the messy emotions of the characters. While many of his peers make movies that reflect a cosmopolitan China in a globalized world, he is perhaps the one filmmaker who best embodies it. His stylistic debt is less to the Chinese directors who came before him than to European or American filmmakers like John Cassavetes or Francois Truffaut (Mr. Lou's films have alluded to ''The 400 Blows'' and ''Jules and Jim'') or, in the case of the volatile ''Spring Fever,'' Rainer Werner Fassbinder.
Born and raised in Shanghai, the son of theater performers, Mr. Lou studied painting before enrolling at the Beijing Film Academy in the 1980s, part of the first wave of filmmakers to be exposed as much to Western as to Chinese film history.
But the main influence on ''Spring Fever'' is the early-20th-century writer Yu Dafu, known for his political activism and the sexual candor of his work and sometimes described as the Chinese D. H. Lawrence. Characters are seen reading from a Yu story called ''Intoxicating Spring Nights'' (the literal translation of the film's Chinese title).
''Yu Dafu and his work are used as a mirror in the film,'' Mr. Lou said, to reveal ''how much we've changed, and also what has barely changed.'' In some ways, he added, ''we're still like Yu Dafu, wandering around in the darkness of that intoxicating spring night.''
Mr. Lou has spent his entire career working around the strictures of censorship: ''Weekend Lover'' (1993), his first film, was banned for two years; ''Suzhou River'' was shot without permits and remains banned. He has had to depend on overseas support and financing (''Spring Fever'' was registered as a Hong Kong-French coproduction) and is by now wearily familiar with the caprices of the Film Bureau. Early reports claimed that he had been blacklisted for screening ''Summer Palace'' in Cannes without permission or for depicting the taboo subject of Tiananmen. But according to Mr. Lou, the official reason for the ban was the movie's ''poor sound and picture quality.''
He likened the ban to ''a spiritual imprisonment,'' but added that there has been an upside: ''Spring Fever'' gave him the opportunity to shoot on digital video for the first time, and he is about to start editing the first film he has made abroad, ''Love and Bruises,'' which is set in Paris. It features Tahar Rahim, the star of the French film ''A Prophet,'' winner of the grand prize at Cannes last year.
There has been no official response from the Film Bureau to the unveiling of ''Spring Fever'' in Cannes, though as an illegal production the film stands no chance of ever being released in China. When the ban expires next year, Mr. Lou said, he intends to make a film through official channels. The ''banned in China'' imprint has boosted some careers over the years, but the economic truth is that filmmakers who want local financing must count on a return at the domestic box office.
While shooting ''Spring Fever,'' Mr. Lou said, ''we had to be prepared that every minute our shooting might be all of a sudden stopped by someone.'' The furtive discretion of the shoot -- with some scenes filmed in close quarters and under low light -- matches the secrecy that shrouds the relationships in the film, as well as the generalized paranoia that, Mr. Lou said, still defines daily life in China.
''It's something invisible,'' he said. ''Although you seem to be free, there's something hanging over you, like air pollution.'' He described the effect as ''a kind of semi-transparent totalitarianism, or a kind of polite suppression.''
''What most of us feel most of the time is the intoxicating spring,'' he added. ''But actually we're still in the dark night. It's just that we've become gradually used to it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chen Sicheng, left in mirror, and Qin Hao in Lou Ye's ''Spring Fever,'' which won a best-screenplay award at the Cannes Film Festival. Below, Mr. Qin, left, and Wu Wei in the film. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES
AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) (AR6)
 The Chinese director Lou Ye has consistently defied the censors at the Film Bureau in Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIN CHEUNG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (AR9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSORSHIP (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); WRITERS (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); MARRIAGE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (73%); UNITED STATES (54%)

TITLE: Spring Fever (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



18 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Death of a Farm

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
Farms go out of business for many reasons, but few farms do merely because the soil has failed. That is the miracle of farming. If you care for the soil, it will last -- and yield -- nearly forever. America is such a young country that we have barely tested that. For most of our history, there has been new land to farm, and we still farm as though there always will be. 
Still, there are some very old farms out there. The oldest is the Tuttle farm, near Dover, N.H., which is also one of the oldest business enterprises in America. It made the news last week because its owner -- a lineal descendant of John Tuttle, the original settler -- has decided to go out of business. It was founded in 1632. I hear its sweet corn is legendary.
The year 1632 is unimaginably distant. In 1632, Galileo was still publishing, and John Locke was born. There were perhaps 10,000 colonists in all of America, only a few hundred of them in New Hampshire. The Tuttle acres, then, would have seemed almost as surrounded as they do in 2010, but by forest instead of highways and houses.
It was a precarious operation at the start -- as all farming was in the new colonies--and it became precarious enough again in these past few years to peter out at last. The land is protected by a conservation easement so it can't be developed, but no one knows whether the next owner will farm it.
In a letter on their Web site, the Tuttles cite ''exhaustion of resources'' as the reason to sell the farm. The exhausted resources they list include bodies, minds, hearts, imagination, equipment, machinery and finances. They do not mention soil, which has been renewed and redeemed repeatedly. It's as though the parishioners of the First Parish Church in nearby Dover -- erected nearly 200 years later, in 1829 -- had rebuilt the structure on the same spot every few years.
It is too simple to say, as the Tuttles have, that the recession killed a farm that had survived for nearly 400 years. What killed it was the economic structure of food production. Each year it has become harder for family farms to compete with industrial scale agriculture -- heavily subsidized by the government -- underselling them at every turn. In a system committed to the health of farms and their integration with local communities, the result would have been different. In 1632, and for many years after, the Tuttle farm was a necessity. In 2010, it is suddenly superfluous, or so we like to pretend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); AGRICULTURE (79%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (79%); FAMILY FARMS (79%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (59%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



19 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS NEW JERSEY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Enjoying the Drive-In Without the Cars

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

 BODY:
HOBOKEN, N.J. -- THE evening had all the makings of an audience-participation spectacle a la ''The Rocky Horror Picture Show,'' with loyalists dressed up as their favorite characters belting out songs they knew by heart.
But the setting was different -- instead of a dark theater, this crowd had assembled in a grassy park on a moonlit summer night. And taking the place of fishnets and hot pants were slick pompadours and satin Pink Ladies jackets. 
''Grease'' was the word among the estimated 1,500 outdoor moviegoers who gathered recently in foldout chairs and on picnic blankets for ''Grease: The Sing-Along'' at Pier A Park in Hoboken, across from the Manhattan skyline. The event was part of Hoboken's annual ''Movies Under the Stars'' summer series, a free weekly program that draws audiences from northern New Jersey and Manhattan.
The moviegoers do not typically dress up and sing; popcorn-munching may be the only activity during ''Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs'' and ''Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs,'' among the films to be shown before the series ends Aug. 18. But sing-along editions of movies, including ''Grease'' this year and ''Mamma Mia!'' last year, tend to bring out the inner ham in people, according to the coordinator of the series, Geri Fallo, 56, of Hoboken.
''People really get into it, which I love,'' she said.
Ms. Fallo, a film enthusiast and Hoboken's cultural affairs coordinator, started ''Movies Under the Stars'' after accepting her job with the city in 1994. ''This was always kind of a dream of mine,'' she said. ''Having people lying here on blankets watching movies is just the most beautiful, peaceful thing.''
The idea has caught on elsewhere in New Jersey.
''We started because we saw what Geri Fallo was doing in Hoboken -- she predated almost everyone, including a lot of outdoor series in Manhattan,'' said Tom Meyers, 49, director of the Fort Lee Film Commission, which runs the weekly ''Music and Movies Under the Stars'' program in the summer at the parklike outdoor stage of the Fort Lee Community Center. Movies to be shown before the series ends on Sept. 4 include ''True Grit'' and ''Mamma Mia!'' The music part of the evening -- concerts mostly by acts based in New Jersey -- takes place before showtime, which starts, as many outdoor film series do, at dusk.
Though ''Music and Movies Under the Stars'' began in 2001 and attracts people of all ages, Mr. Meyers said, it has particular resonance as a way to counteract the recession blues. ''We wanted to provide something in these tough economic times that, for at least 10 weeks in the summer, would let people come out and talk to each other and have some fun,'' Mr. Meyers said. ''I can't emphasize enough how important it is for people who can't afford to spend $100 on taking a family of four out to the movies to have an opportunity to have fun at no cost.''
Turnouts can range from 50 if it rains, in which case the movie is moved indoors, to 1,000, Mr. Meyers said.
''It's really grown in the last few years as the economy has tanked,'' he said. During that period, he said, he has taken calls from representatives of other towns about starting their own outdoor summer film series. ''They may not be happening there now for budgetary reasons,'' he said. ''But people see the value.''
One person who did is Diane Merson, 55, the coordinator for special events in Sea Isle City. In 2005, she started a weekly ''Movies Under the Stars'' series at Excursion Park that quickly became twice weekly.
''It became so popular we had to increase it,'' said Ms. Merson, who plans an all-PG lineup each year. Crowds typically run from 400 to 500. Scheduled movies before the Aug. 31 closing date for the series include ''Up'' and ''Old Dogs.''
''I think it's almost a nostalgic thing for people -- we have grandparents, parents and children coming out together, and they like to get there hours early and scope out their place,'' Ms. Merson said. ''It's a feel-good thing, a way for them to enjoy each other.''
Union County's version of the movie series, ''Family Flix,'' intends to spread feel-good enjoyment throughout the county.
''We're a very congested county, one of the most congested in the state,'' said Ron Zuber, deputy director of the county's Department of Parks and Community Renewal. For that reason, its weekly series roves from park to park, to towns including Springfield and Cranford.
''We wanted to get as many people coming out to the parks at night as we could in a cost-effective way. That was the idea when we started this six years ago,'' said Mr. Zuber, 49. Now, 500 to 1,000 people come out to watch movies like ''Monsters vs. Aliens'' and ''Racing Stripes,'' which will be screened before ''Family Flix'' wraps up on Aug. 24.
''It's a way to keep our parks vibrant and alive,'' he said. It is also something of a throwback, he said, reinforcing the nostalgia mentioned by Ms. Merson.
''I grew up in a town in Union County,'' he said, ''and back in the '70s, at the pool, we'd nail white plywood to a fence and show movies at night. Then it stopped. It's a fun tradition we've given a rebirth to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TEEN LOVERS: A screening of ''Grease'' at Pier A Park in Hoboken, above and at left, was part of a summer series. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX DI SUVERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



20 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW JERSEY DINING ON-THE-FARM MEALS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: The Sweet Corn? Grown Right Over There

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

 BODY:
THE Red Gold potatoes that studded the white corn chowder came from E. R. & Son Organic Farm in Colts Neck.
The pheasant was from Griggstown Quail Farm in Princeton.
And the organic sweet corn that was featured in all four courses -- including the dessert of corn ice cream, made by the Bent Spoon in Princeton -- came from the 118-acre Muth Family Farm here. The farm's proprietors, Bob Muth and his wife, Leda, sat at an elegantly set outdoor table recently, enjoying every morsel of the dinner.
The feast laid out for the Muths and 36 visitors, who paid $135 each to join them in late July, was prepared under an outdoor tent by Chris Albrecht, executive chef at Eno Terra in Kingston. It was organized by Zone 7 of Lawrenceville, a company that is working to help organic or sustainable farmers in New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania distribute their products. 
''My goal has been to help keep the Garden State the Garden State,'' said Mikey Azzara, who founded Zone 7, named for New Jersey's location on the Agriculture Department's Plant Hardiness Zone Map. ''Why is it easier to get stuff from all over the world than it is to get stuff from a New Jersey farmer to a New Jersey restaurant? I saw this as an important nut to crack.''
The dinner at Muth Family Farm in Gloucester County benefited the New Jersey Farm to School Network, which was co-founded by Mr. Azzara, 30, of Lawrenceville. A series of such dinners, with part of the proceeds going to different organizations, takes place monthly from June to October at various farms represented by Zone 7; the next one is on Aug. 8 at Oak Grove Plantation in Pittstown.
Other groups hold similar on-the-farm events for those who are interested in eating locally (and are willing and able to pay a premium to do so). Among them is Slow Food Northern New Jersey, a chapter of Slow Food USA, which will hold its next dinner, along with Sustenance Events of Scotch Plains, at Fosterfields Living Historical Farm in Morristown on Aug. 22. Outstanding in the Field, an organization based in Santa Cruz, Calif., that roams the country with the goal of connecting people to the origins of their food, will have a dinner in New Jersey on Sept. 4 at Mosefund Farm in Branchville.
For Zone 7, which was established in 2008, the dinners are a way to celebrate a venture that, on the continuum from crawling to sprinting, is currently at the ''satisfying brisk walk'' phase, according to Mr. Azzara.
''The business is really a leap of faith,'' said Mr. Azzara, who enlisted his brother, his girlfriend, a cousin and a few others in addition to Mr. Albrecht, who is a Zone 7 client, to put on the recent four-hour event at Muth Family Farm. It included wines from CoolVines of Princeton and a farm tour led by Mr. Muth, 54.
Essentially, Mr. Azzara said, Zone 7 is a direct link between farmers and the stores and restaurants that might otherwise have trouble doing business with them, because of the difficulty of finding out what is available when, where and for how long.
''I kept hearing that there was a missing link in the food system between small and medium-sized growers in New Jersey and Pennsylvania and the people who want what they have, whether it's a chef or a grocery store,'' Mr. Azzara said.
Before he founded Zone 7, Mr. Azzara was outreach director at the New Jersey office of the Northeast Organic Farming Association, a nonprofit group that helps farmers develop sustainable organic agricultural systems and educates the public about them. He got to know a lot of farmers in the process.
''I decided what I really need to do is reach out to the 10 best farmers I know to see if they would like me to find out what they have and get it to the people that want it,'' he said. ''I got in touch with grocers and chefs and farmers, and pretty much within five minutes of every conversation they all said yes.''
Even though he founded Zone 7 in 2008, when the economy was in recession, ''I haven't really had to make one cold call the whole time,'' he said. ''It just snowballed.''
The company now works with nearly 30 organic or sustainable farms in New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania and around 60 restaurants and stores.
Zone 7 sold $70,000 of produce its first year; in its second, sales topped $250,000. He is currently the only full-time employee.
Mr. Azzara gives credit for the venture's growth to farmer friends like Mr. Muth, who called the dinner at his farm ''the highlight of my summer.''
''So many people think food comes from the supermarket -- it was good to get people down here and show them what we do,'' he said.
One person who was impressed was Martha Wright, 54, a freelance copywriter from Cherry Hill, who especially enjoyed an appetizer of melon soup made with local honey from Bob's Buzzy Bees in Yardville and sparkling wine.
Her reaction: ''That is incredibly, outrageously good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FEAST: Zone 7, a company that helps farmers distribute their products, organized a dinner at Muth Family Farm in Gloucester County. Above right is Mikey Azzara, Zone 7's founder.
 PLATING: The food was prepared by Chris Albrecht, the executive chef at Eno Terra in Kingston. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIC FOODS (90%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); ICE CREAM (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



21 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Daughters of the Dust

BYLINE: By RICHARD RUSSO. 
Richard Russo's latest novel, ''That Old Cape Magic,'' is now out in paperback.

 BODY:
THE SISTERS FROM HARDSCRABBLE BAY
By Beverly Jensen
307 pp. Viking. $25.95
Beverly Jensen's book ''The Sisters From Hardscrabble Bay'' may be a collection of stories, but thanks to its chronological sweep (from 1916 to 1987), its multiple settings (from New Brunswick -- so vividly rendered that it becomes another character -- to Boston to coastal Maine) and a good half-dozen of the richest fictional characters I've encountered anywhere, the book delivers the emotional rush of a novel, indeed of a great novel. Of course, when a book is this satisfying, it probably doesn't matter what we call it, only that we have it, although in this case, sadly, we'll never have another. Jensen died of cancer in 2003, before any of her stories made it into print. In fact, it's not clear she intended for them to be published, which may explain their remarkable intimacy and unflinching honesty. 
The lives of Idella and Avis Hillock, the sisters of the title, are shaped by forces as harsh and seemingly uncaring as nature itself. In ''Gone,'' the girls are introduced wearing hand-me-down shoes ''still molded by the shapes of other feet.'' Despite having few advantages, they are happy enough, until their mother dies -- a victim of pills mistakenly prescribed by the family doctor -- shortly after giving birth to their sister Emma. Idella, not quite 8, hearing her mother's cries of pain, sneaks downstairs and hides in the kitchen, a silent witness to her mother's bloody, agonizing death, whereas Avis, two years younger, waits upstairs in the literal and figurative dark, terrified and confused. Bill, their father, at a loss for how to relate to his daughters even before his wife's death, has little to offer them or their older brother, Dalton, afterward, his remoteness in effect making orphans of all his children. Grief-stricken, he loses himself in the endless toil of the family farm -- pulling lobster traps and pushing ''every goddamned potato through the ground with my bare hands'' -- making servants of his daughters, his rage at life's injustice never far beneath the surface, frightening them. To Idella, her father seems to have resigned not just himself but also his children to a life of loss and endless drudgery, until one by one they flee.
Much of the pleasure of the subsequent stories derives from witnessing how Idella's and Avis's early experiences, together with their temperamental differences, determine the kinds of young women, wives and later mature women they will become. Idella, intelligent and dutiful, though wary of a world she knows can turn hostile in a heartbeat, remains hopeful by cautiously lowering her romantic and economic expectations, until those expectations can reasonably be met. Combative Avis, having apparently concluded that she has already absorbed life's cruelest blows, takes the world head-on, demanding something like her fair share, never mind its stubborn reluctance to cough up rewards. In any event, she's done genuflecting. Such profoundly different stances produce results that are not as dissimilar as one might imagine. It never occurs to careful Idella, who marries Eddie, the first man to show her any interest, that she might be selling herself short, just as it never occurs to hard-drinking, promiscuous Avis that the world might have more to offer her than a series of cruel jokes.
The starkly beautiful, yet barren and unrelenting New Brunswick landscape also shapes the sisters' characters. Perched precariously on a cliff overlooking the Atlantic, the Hillock family farm is scoured by winds so severe that the few trees that can survive there grow ''as though bent from the waist,'' and we quickly sense, the way one does reading Thomas Hardy, just how inextricable such land is from the people who live on it ''by their wits,'' as Idella remarks, ''which were more considerable and deep-rooted than their plantings.'' This connection between the land and the battered people who scrape a marginal living from its rocky soil is illustrated most powerfully in the character of the young French Canadian girl, Maddie, also motherless, who in ''Pomme de Terre'' is hired to cook and clean. Compared throughout the story to a potato, Maddie, who wears the same thin-at-the-elbows dress every day, has even less in the way of material possessions than her young charges. The terrible paucity of the girl's dreams and expectations is symbolized by the faceless, hairless doll she treasures. People here do without -- not just without beauty (the tiny wildflowers along the cliffs bloom only to die within hours), but without even the eyes to see it.
A book that follows the lives of characters from childhood through death can't help being about destiny, and as temperamentally different as Avis and Idella may be, their fates are clearly linked. Their lives get slightly easier after they leave Canada, but the ensuing stories reveal the extent of the damage done to them before their escape. In ''The Opera,'' the sisters, living in Boston, are given cheap-seat tickets to a production of ''Carmen.'' Naturally, Avis is quite taken with the brash, self-confident title character (Idella reminds her that Carmen ends up dead) and has a grand old time directing acerbic quips at the wealthy old women in the balcony. Idella tries to enjoy herself, but she's distracted by how much better dressed everyone else is, and she's particularly humiliated by her large, ugly brown purse, when all the other women have stylish, tiny ones. Ironically, the only things in the purse are her gloves and a folded handkerchief (her luggage, after a fashion, is also her baggage, her burden). In another story, much later in life, Idella has to convince a boy who tries to rob her convenience store that often, a person is better off with less. Hungry and desperate to escape his home, the kid wants everything, not just the bills from the register, but also the coins and bags of chips and a footlong sandwich from the deli counter and a couple of six-packs of beer. Too much, too quickly, she advises him, can become unwieldy. All those rolled coins just drag your pants down. Desire becomes the enemy of both flight and freedom.
Such hard-won wisdom, leavened by sometimes gentle, sometimes boisterous humor, is the core joy of Jensen's narrative, and it's in the collection's final two stories that the emotional payoff is richest. In ''Wake,'' Avis and Dalton, drunk, manage to lose their father's coffin (with Bill in it), then find it again and make a harrowing journey in a borrowed hearse to New Brunswick in an ice storm. This circumstance may be comedic, but it provides the foundation for a serious and profound meditation on loss and suffering, on a world that seems to turn treacherous as soon as you get your bearings in it. And yet there's no discounting its brutal beauty. The morning after the ice storm, the rising sun makes a crystal wonderland. Idella -- still Idella -- asks what will happen to the little birds. They'll fall, Avis replies, on their butts: ''Like us.'' Now at a point where they can take a long view of their lives, the sisters conclude that the entire Hillock clan are a bunch of wretched ''fools''; indeed Hillock behavior often seems to warrant exactly this assessment. But how brave and resilient they are. How resourceful. How wonderfully human. Fools they may be, but their condition is so nearly universal that it's hard to take much pleasure in judgment.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN CAIRNS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); WITNESSES (74%); WOMEN (73%); ORPHANS (71%); FAMILY (70%); CANCER (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); FAMILY FARMS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Sisters From Hardscrabble Bay, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



22 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Yesterday's Banker

BYLINE: By LIAQUAT AHAMED. 
Liaquat Ahamed is the author of ''Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World,'' which won the 2010 Pulitzer Prize for history.

 BODY:
HIGH FINANCIER
The Lives and Time of Siegmund Warburg
By Niall Ferguson
Illustrated. 548 pp. The Penguin Press. $35
The last couple of years have not been good for the reputation of bankers. When their ludicrous bets on American mortgages went bad in 2007 and 2008, bringing the whole financial industry to the brink of disaster, they looked like fools; and their behavior since has only cast them in an even worse light. Their uncanny knack for extracting gigantic profits from the current low interest rates, when the rest of the economy is struggling, raises the suspicion that there is something exploitative about what they do, a fear exacerbated by the startling bonuses they continue to pay themselves through good times and bad. Perhaps most disturbing is that, in their public appearances, the men who run the big financial institutions in this country and wield such enormous power seem to display so shallow and unreflective a worldview. 
Niall Ferguson's ''High Financier,'' the biography of the Anglo-German banker Sir Siegmund Warburg, takes us back to a different era -- the 1950s and '60s -- and a different conception of banking. Profits from trading were modest, and bankers made most of their money by giving advice to clients and helping businesses to raise capital. Bankers like Warburg thought of themselves as rather like family doctors, whose job it was to get to know their clients well, understand their problems and act in their best interest -- a far cry from the ethos that dominates today's Wall Street.
Warburg was born in imperial Germany in 1902, into the poorer branch of the Warburg banking dynasty. His father, Georges, was the family underachiever, who for health reasons had moved away from the ancestral base in Hamburg to an estate in southern Germany. The family grandees were Georges' cousins: Max, a friend of the kaiser and member of the Reichsbank board who ran M. M. Warburg & Company, the family bank, and two of Max's brothers, Paul and Felix, who had moved to New York and were partners in the renowned Kuhn Loeb banking house.
After his father lost much of his inheritance to the hyperinflation of the early 1920s, young Siegmund joined M. M. Warburg in the hope of eventually making enough money to enter politics. He discovered that he enjoyed business, though he found himself increasingly frustrated by Max's complacency and mismanagement. During the financial crisis of 1931, M. M. Warburg itself came close to collapse and had to be bailed out by a loan from the Reichsbank and a capital infusion from the American branch of the family.
While Warburg, like so many other wealthy German Jews, misjudged the threat posed by the rise of the National Socialists, once Hitler came to power he was quick to realize how dangerous the situation had become, and in 1934 he emigrated. Rather than join his extended family in New York, he chose to move to London, where he started a small investment firm.
Though he arrived in Britain with an impeccable banking pedigree, he was an outsider to the clubby world of the City of London, a foreigner, with hardly any capital of his own and Jewish to boot. By the later 1940s he had established himself as an expert in corporate finance, and by the late 1950s, S. G. Warburg & Company had vaulted into that inner sanctum of British merchant banking, the accepting houses (so called because their paper was accepted without question at the Bank of England), a group that included such storied names as Rothschild and Lazard. Warburg solidified his reputation as a ruthless but canny deal maker when in the late 1950s he shook up the hidebound City by starting the first hostile takeover bid in Britain.
It was during the 1960s that Warburg reached the pinnacle of his influence. He was the first to recognize that the pool of dollars accumulating in European hands could be tapped directly by local borrowers, creating what became known as the Eurobond market and thus reviving London's historic position as a global financial center. But as Britain's economic malaise became more acute and inflation took off in the 1970s, the capital base of S. G. Warburg & Company progressively eroded. When the London markets were deregulated and opened to foreign competition in the 1980s, the firm made a sequence of strategic missteps and, like every one of the other British merchant banks, found itself too small to compete with the big foreign banks. Warburg, who died in 1982, did not live to see the City powerhouse that he had created and that bore his name divided in pieces between a Swiss bank and an American investment house.
As Ferguson warns in his introduction, it is hard to write about bankers and financiers. For all their importance, what they do on a day-to-day basis is rarely good raw material for drama -- except, of course, during crises like the one we have just lived through -- and nothing dates faster or reads more dryly than financial coups of previous decades. Ferguson, the author of many books of financial history, largely overcomes these limitations by avoiding getting bogged down in the minutiae of deals that are now ancient history. Instead he keeps his eye on the big picture -- the social, economic and political backdrop to Warburg's career. Quoting extensively from Warburg's private papers, Ferguson is in his element as he takes us on a tour d'horizon of 20th-century Europe -- the turbulence of Germany in the interwar years; Britain after the war, saddled with the encumbrances of its imperial past; the creation of the European market in the 1950s and '60s; and the collapse of Bretton Woods in the early '70s.
And yet, for all of this, Warburg turns out to be a relatively minor figure in the history of finance. Compared with some of the great financial entrepreneurs, like J. P. Morgan, Walter Wriston and John Reed of Citibank, even Michael Milken, Warburg had no great innovation to his credit. Nor was he especially powerful. Though he was an informal adviser to the Labour prime minister Harold Wilson, compared with such American banker-statesmen as the Morgan partners of the 1920s or W. Averell Harriman and Robert Lovett of Brown Brothers, Warburg, perhaps because he ended up in Britain rather than the United States, was a bit player on the world stage. And he did not become especially rich -- when he died his estate was valued at less than $5 million.
Why, if Warburg's legacy is so slight, read a 500-page book about him? The man who emerges from ''High Financier'' is more interesting for who he was than for what he did. Ferguson draws a richly vivid portrait of this unusual banker, an intellectual who read the Latin and Greek classics in the original and preferred Nietzsche to newspapers, an ascetic who, according to a colleague, ''despised moneymaking for its own sake,'' a fastidious man -- almost to the point of self-caricature -- with a profoundly gloomy view of human history and a fundamentally tragic sensibility.
Ferguson frequently refers to Warburg's appreciation for the novels of Thomas Mann, and even compares the decline of the Warburg dynasty to the story of the northern German family in ''Buddenbrooks.'' Warburg lived through some of the great European upheavals of the 20th century. While Ferguson dutifully traces that long journey from the lonely boy growing up on a dilapidated agricultural estate in southern Germany to the refugee on the make in Depression-era London to the ill-tempered, cantankerous grand old man of British banking, perhaps only a novelist of Mann's skill and imagination could truly plumb the depths of the lives and time of this extraordinary man.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The headquarters of M. M. Warburg & Company in Hamburg and, top, Siegmund Warburg in the late 1920s. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM ''HIGH FINANCIER'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANK BRANCHES (77%); FAMILY (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FAMILY PRACTICE (65%)

COMPANY: M M WARBURG & CO FONDS-VERTRIEB (52%); M M WARBURG & CO LUXEMBOURG SA (52%); M M WARBURG & CO HYPOTHEKENBANK AG (52%); M M WARBURG & CO AT JPP EUROSECURITIES INC (52%); M M WARBURG & CO KGAA (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: High Financier: The Lives and Time of Siegmund Warburg (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



23 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: What Would Roosevelt Do?

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is professor of economics and finance at Yale and co-founder and chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC.

 BODY:
ACROSS the United States, thousands of federally financed stimulus projects are under way, aimed at bolstering the economy and putting people to work. The results so far have not been spectacular.
Why not? There's nothing wrong with the idea of fiscal stimulus itself. We need more stimulus, not less -- but we need to focus much more on actually putting people to work.
Two friends of mine, both economists, came upon a stimulus project recently that illustrated the problem. On a Wyoming highway they saw a sign that read ''Putting America to Work: Project Funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act'' and prominently featured a picture of a worker digging with a shovel. Out on the road, there was plenty of equipment, including a gigantic asphalt paver, dump trucks, rollers and service vehicles. But there wasn't a single laborer with a shovel. That project employed capital, certainly, but not many human beings. 
Like many such stimulus projects, it could be justified if you accept the idea that gross domestic product, not jobs, is central -- a misconception rooted in economic theory, or at least in the way that Keynesian economic theory has evolved.
The conventional concept of ''recession'' has been defined in terms of G.D.P., not unemployment, which is perceived as a ''lagging indicator.'' It is widely assumed that jump-starting ''the economy,'' as measured by G.D.P., is the most fundamental move we should make.
Stimulate the economy, so the theory goes -- get that economic engine humming -- and it will provide plenty of rides for the unemployed, and good rides too, as healthy businesses expand. In addition, focusing on increasing the G.D.P. rather than on creating jobs is related to the notion that we need real jobs, jobs that are not make-work, jobs with a future. And there is something to this: We would not want to see teams of laborers with shovels at construction sites that could operate more efficiently without them.
Yet unless we take new measures, we face the prospect of protracted unemployment. In June, the unemployment rate stood at 9.5 percent and the rate of long-term unemployment, defined as joblessness for at least 27 weeks, was 4.4 percent -- its highest level since 1948. Both Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Christina Romer, chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, recently said that high unemployment was likely to persist for years.
This would have an enormous human cost, and it is especially worrisome for people who are young or otherwise vulnerable and may be inclined to give up and drop out entirely. Ultimately, of course, this will show up in the traditional measures of G.D.P., as well.
So here's a proposal: Why not use government policy to directly create jobs -- labor-intensive service jobs in fields like education, public health and safety, urban infrastructure maintenance, youth programs, elder care, conservation, arts and letters, and scientific research?
Would this be an effective use of resources? From the standpoint of economic theory, government expenditures in such areas often provide benefits that are not being produced by the market economy. Take New York subway stations, for example. Cleaning and painting them in a period of severe austerity can easily be neglected. Yet the long-term benefit to businesses from an appealing mass transit system is enormous. (This is an example of an ''externality,'' which the market economy, left to its own devices, will neglect.)
Such benefits are hard to measure precisely because there is no current market price for them. Cost-benefit analysts tend to be in endless debate about such programs, and so the social impetus for them often becomes blurred. Keep this in mind, though: Whatever the merits of specific programs, the cutoff that we choose for classifying a project as ''good'' or ''bad'' should be adjusted downward in periods of widespread unemployment.
Some researchers have expressed doubts, for example, that ''throwing more resources'' at students -- providing more teachers and aides -- is cost effective, in terms of objective measures of educational outcome.
In a period of severe joblessness like this one, however, someone who is sitting unemployed who would rather be working at a modest salary as a teacher's aide should be given a chance, at least until the economy improves. In other words, the unemployment rate itself should be a major factor in evaluating such programs.
In 1936, John Maynard Keynes made much the same point: ''Thus we are so sensible, have schooled ourselves to so close a semblance of prudent financiers, taking careful thought before we add to the 'financial' burdens of posterity by building them houses to live in, that we have no such easy escape from the sufferings of unemployment.''
PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT'S New Deal, though no more than partly successful, was much more focused on job creation than our current economic stimulus has been. It seems that the New Deal was also more successful at inspiring the American public.
Consider one of the most applauded of Roosevelt's programs, the Civilian Conservation Corps, from 1933 to 1942. The program was open to young men, initially those 18 to 25, a group that was quite vulnerable economically. The C.C.C. emphasized labor-intensive projects like planting trees.
The public appreciated the tree planting because the projects addressed big problems that had been ignored. Major dust storms in and around Oklahoma raged from 1930 to 1936, denuding whole regions of agricultural land. The storms were vivid evidence of an externality that environmentalists had warned about for years, to little avail. Unregulated farming and lumbering had allowed pervasive soil erosion.
Aside from the environmental benefits, the C.C.C. encouraged a sense of camaraderie, taught young men new skills and gave its workers a sense of participation in something historic.
Congress has recently set plans for tripling the size of AmeriCorps, the modern counterpart of the C.C.C., which now takes both sexes and has no age cap. At its peak, the C.C.C. employed 500,000 young men. Under current plans, AmeriCorps would top out at 250,000 people in 2017, even though the nation now is two and a half times larger. We ought to be bolder.
Big new programs to create jobs need not be expensive. Suppose the cost of hiring a single employee were as high as $30,000 a year, several times typical AmeriCorps living allowances. Hiring a million people would cost $30 billion a year. That's only 4 percent of the entire federal stimulus program, and 0.2 percent of the national debt.
Why don't we just do it?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); JOB CREATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%)

PERSON: CHRISTINA ROMER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



24 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; WHEELS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: THE BLOG; Is a Chevy Volt Worth $41,000?

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
General Motors, after announcing on Tuesday that the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid car would cost $41,000, was unfazed by inevitable comparisons to the Nissan Leaf, a battery electric car that will arrive in select markets at the end of the year, around the same time as the Volt. At $32,780, the Leaf is far less expensive.
''Honestly, they're two different vehicles,'' said Dave Darovitz, a G.M. spokesman. ''One is range limited, and the other one offers 40 miles of gas-free driving and then a further 300 miles of travel.'' 
David Champion, director of automobile testing for Consumer Reports, said the Volt and Leaf are ''in two different markets.''
''The Leaf is a commuter car for going back and forth,'' he said. ''The Volt is the next iteration of the hybrid vehicle - it has the 40-mile electric range, but if you want to drive it from New York to Los Angeles, you can. The Leaf will probably be a second car, whereas the Volt can be your primary car.''
Mr. Darovitz said that initial customers for the Volt ''will be primarily tech enthusiasts and early adopters, typically middle-aged males. A large percentage will be in California.'' But he said that demographic will expand to include just about anyone because of the car's range.
They'll also have to be people willing to pay BMW prices for a Chevy. The biggest challenge for Chevrolet may be in finding those upmarket customers. According to Edmunds.com, only 13 percent of new vehicles sold this year cost more than $40,000 (not including incentives). J.D. Power & Associates in its 2010 Initial Quality Study said that 15 percent of new vehicle sales (excluding exotics) were of cars with a suggested retail price of $40,000 and above.
Jon Linkov, Consumer Reports' managing editor for autos, notes that the Volt lacks some creature comforts $40,000 car buyers generally expect. ''The seats are a little flimsy and the interior has a small-car feel to it,'' he said. But with the Volt's 340 miles on tap, Mr. Linkov said the extra investment could allow buyers to banish the phrase ''range anxiety'' that is likely to attach itself to electric cars that run out of charge after 100 miles.
Erich Merkle, an auto analyst and president of Autoconomy, said that environmentally motivated consumers ''should have no problem with that kind of upcharge - it's insignificant over and above the cost of a Chevrolet Cruze if you think it's helping keep our planet clean.''
The scant options on the Volt include three different colors of premium paint, chrome wheels, rear parking assist and heated leather seats, Mr. Darovitz of G.M. said. With a fully loaded Volt set to cost $44,600, many customers will probably opt for the attractive three-year, 36-month lease deal, which is $350 a month after a $2,500 down payment that includes a security deposit. Chevrolet calculated that relatively low lease payment to include the existing $7,500 federal tax credit, whose value will be transferred from the lessee to the lessor. Volt buyers can use the tax credit to effectively buy the car for a net price of $33,500.
According to another G.M. spokesman, Rob Peterson, the $41,000 price ''represents the long-term value of the Volt, and the long-term value also supports an attractive lease price.'' The car's end-of-lease residual value, he said, is elevated by its eight-year, 100,000-mile battery warranty.
Mr. Champion said that G.M. had built the Volt around a selling price of about $40,000. ''At that price, will they recoup their considerable development costs in the near future? No. But are they going to sell it at a price that pays back what it costs to make each car plus some of those development costs? Yes.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); GREEN MARKET (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



25 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2849 words

HEADLINE: The Academic-Industrial Complex

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
WHAT does Shirley Ann Jackson know about shipping parcels? For that matter, what does Steven B. Sample understand about mutual funds?
Dr. Jackson, who is a theoretical physicist and the president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., has served as an outside director on the board of FedEx since 1999.
Dr. Sample, an electrical engineer and the retiring president of the University of Southern California, sits on the boards of directors of the American Mutual and Amcap mutual funds. He is also a director of another company, and stepped down two years ago from the board of the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, the candy maker.
Dr. Jackson and Dr. Sample are part of a cozy and lucrative club: presidents and other senior university officials who cross from academia into the business world to serve on corporate boards. 
While academics can often bring fresh perspectives, managerial experience and the imprimatur of a respected institution to a board, they are also serving in an era when corporations wrestling with fallout from the financial crisis (think Bank of America, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs) or very public mishaps (think BP, Johnson & Johnson and Toyota) have raised the stakes for board members expected to guide corporations.
Some analysts worry that academics are possibly imperiling or compromising the independence of their universities when they venture onto boards. Others question whether scholars have the time -- and financial sophistication -- needed to police the country's biggest corporations while simultaneously juggling the demands of running a large university.
''It is prestigious for a company to have a major university president on their board,'' says Pablo Eisenberg, senior fellow at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute. ''But few college and university C.E.O.'s are even qualified to understand the workings of a major public company.''
According to a 2008 survey by The Chronicle of Higher Education, presidents from 19 of the top 40 research universities with the largest operating budgets sat on at least one company board. The trend is more widespread among public universities, but the private ones are catching up: the American Council on Education says that from 2001 to 2006, the proportion of presidents from all doctorate-granting institutions sitting on corporate boards rose to 52.1 percent from 47.8 percent at public institutions, and to 50.9 percent from 40.6 percent at private ones.
Some of the more high-profile and ubiquitous academics include the president of Stanford, John L. Hennessy, who sits on three boards, including that of Google. (Google also has the president of Princeton, Shirley M. Tilghman, on its board.) The chancellor of the University of California, San Diego, Marye Anne Fox, is on three boards.
And then there is Dr. Jackson of Rensselaer, the highest-paid private college president and one of the most prominent black university leaders. In addition to FedEx, she sits on the boards of four other companies, including I.B.M. and Marathon Oil, and she recently stepped down from the board of NYSE Euronext.
THE attractions are clear for the president: lucrative extra pay and useful networking, among other reasons. For a dozen hours or so each month for each board served, in addition to preparation time, and their wise advice, they can receive hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.
Ruth J. Simmons, the president of Brown University and the first African-American woman to lead an Ivy League university, sat on the Goldman Sachs board until she stepped down this year. In 2009, she earned $323,539 from her Goldman directorship, including stock grants and options, as calculated by Goldman, and left the board with stock worth at the time around $4.3 million. This is in addition to her salary from Brown, $576,000 this year.
Dr. Jackson earned $1.38 million from her directorships, comprising both cash and stock. That's in addition to $1.6 million from her day job, including bonuses and other benefits.
Beyond personal financial benefits, the interchange of ideas between campus and corporation can allow for a fruitful cross-fertilization. For example, Dr. Hennessy sits on the boards of Cisco Systems and Atheros Communications as well as Google. As an electrical engineer and a pioneer in computer architecture, he is well placed to bring industry expertise to the boards he serves.
William G. Bowen was president of Princeton University for 16 years and served on two boards, including Merck's. It was an experience, he says, that was invaluable in helping him build up Princeton's then-fledgling life sciences activities.
''It influenced my understanding of how the field was evolving, where new ideas were most likely to appear, where to look for talent,'' he recalls. ''It was one long seminar in the sciences and molecular biology.''
There are benefits for the company, too.
One obvious advantage is having an outsider who thinks about alternative solutions to corporate problems. Another is diversity.
Indeed, the path from academia to corporate boards began broadening in the late 1990s when companies sought to break up the traditionally white, male composition of their boards. Academia, and in particular university presidents, were a good source of prominent minority leaders and women who were established in their fields and had experience running big organizations.
Phyllis M. Wise, the provost of the University of Washington, is on Nike's board. Nike said it hired Dr. Wise, an Asian-American, ''because of her impressive accomplishments and her record of independent thought, and we believe that through the exchange of ideas, both Nike and the University of Washington will benefit.''
But according to James H. Finkelstein, a professor in the George Mason School of Public Policy, probably the biggest reason companies have sought out academics is the prestige they bring. Universities are among the few institutions trusted by the public, he says, and companies believe they can associate themselves with this quality by installing an academic on the board.
''Corporations think this is a way of enhancing their prestige and legitimacy, especially in the case of Ivy League presidents,'' he says. ''I suspect that's the principal motivation. It's probably not for their business sense.''
John Gillespie, who has written a book on corporate boards, ''Money for Nothing,'' says academics are often selected for another reason -- because they are less likely to rock the boat than directors from the business world.
Academics may be trained to ask tough questions in their own fields, but when confronted with tricky business issues far above their level of expertise they ''often become as meek as church mice,'' he says.
MOST corporate governance experts think that a president serving on one board brings benefits to both the company and the university, but the situation becomes problematic as these academics serve on more boards. There may be diminishing returns to the university and less time to be an effective board member.
Nell Minow, editor of the Corporate Library, an independent research firm focusing on corporate governance, says Goldman Sachs was hurt having Dr. Simmons as a director because she lacks financial expertise and was focused more than she should have been on other things like the firm's philanthropy. She was chairwoman of the advisory board for a Goldman initiative, 10,000 Women, that provides women outside the firm with business and management education.
''That seat could have been held by someone who understood derivatives,'' says Ms. Minow. ''What we have learned from the financial crisis is that boards of directors have failed miserably in their No. 1 task of risk management. You don't go on a board for networking, seeking contributions or working for minorities. You go on a board for one purpose -- to manage risk for the long-term benefit of the shareholder.''
Samuel Robinson, a Goldman spokesman, said that ''Ruth Simmons's contribution to our board was deep and also wide-ranging.'' He added: ''Ruth brought invaluable perspective on leadership, people and decision-making, and her direct work with students was of great value to a firm that recruits hundreds of young people every year. Her personal story and perspective on diversity speak for themselves.''
Dr. Simmons declined to comment for this article. In an interview early this year after she announced she was retiring from the Goldman board, she said filling boards with specialists was ''exactly the wrong direction.''
''You need people close to the industry to provide depth of experience, but you also need people with perspective,'' she says.
In the case of Dr. Jackson and her five board appointments, Ms. Minow says, ''it is just physically impossible to do the work necessary to be a good director'' on so many boards. The Corporate Library estimates that board members must invest 240 hours a year, including meetings and preparation, to do the work properly. But it can become a full-time job if the company runs into trouble.
Charles M. Elson, a corporate governance specialist at the University of Delaware, is highly critical of university presidents who serve on several boards, although he is reluctant to single out particular directors or companies. ''If you see a university president on multiple boards, that's a problem,'' he says. ''There is no way you can do the job. Someone has got short shrift.''
Some of the companies these presidents served make a different assessment, however.
Marathon Oil said it was proud to have Dr. Jackson on its board. ''She is a valued contributor, with a keen attention to detail and breadth of knowledge that serves Marathon well,'' a company spokesman says.
FedEx said her broad array of commitments had not interfered with her work on its board and that she had recently been selected to be chairwoman of its nominating and governance committee. ''We consider the breadth of her experience -- in academia, government service and as a member of other public company boards -- to be a tremendous asset to our company,'' says a FedEx spokesman.
I.B.M. said that Dr. Jackson, who is a member of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and a former chairwoman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, was re-elected to the I.B.M. board this spring by more than 93 percent of shareholder votes cast. ''It is clear that the overwhelming majority of I.B.M.'s stockholders appreciate her contributions to the company,'' says an I.B.M. spokesman.
Dr. Jackson would not comment for this article. A Rensselaer spokesman, William N. Walker, said she regularly worked on her board duties through vacation and on weekends. As proof that she was not being distracted from her Rensselaer duties, he cited the hiring of more than 270 new faculty members, $700 million in construction and renovation including four new centers on campus, and a $360 million anonymous donation in 2001 as part of a $1.4 billion capital campaign. Her networking at I.B.M. paid off by helping to bring a $100 million supercomputer to the campus in partnership with I.B.M. and New York State, he said. In June, Rensselaer's board of trustees voted to give Dr. Jackson another 10-year term.
Dr. Hennessy of Stanford could not be reached to comment for this article. Dr. Sample, who is retiring as president of U.S.C. this month, has worked as a director for about a dozen companies over the last three decades. One of them, Intermec, a manufacturer of supply chain tracking devices, praised his energy and commitment, and said his roles on other boards helped the company because he brought perspectives from other businesses. Dr. Sample declined to comment, as did Dr. Fox.
AS academics serve on a greater number of boards, there is also an increased chance of reputational risk if a company runs into difficulties.
''Woe to the university president who would sit on BP's board,'' says Richard P. Chait, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
Erroll B. Davis Jr., chancellor of the University System of Georgia, was on the BP board for 12 years, though he stepped down in April, just days before the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded, causing the massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. His retirement, however, wasn't enough to protect him from being named, along with other directors, in a small number of lawsuits filed against BP over the disaster.
''There is a big risk to academics when they serve on boards. They especially attract criticism when a company gets into trouble,'' said James Kristie, editor of Director & Boards, a trade publication. ''They are more harshly criticized because they are supposed to be the smartest guys in the room.''
The risk of a damaged reputation seemed to be an issue when Dr. Simmons announced in February that she was stepping down from the Goldman board.
At the time, Goldman was being battered by questions about its involvement in the financial crisis and the lucrative pay it doled out to executives and employees even after the firm had received a huge taxpayer bailout. As a director, Dr. Simmons was partly responsible for approving Goldman's bonuses during the boom years -- including the $68 million pay package awarded to its chairman, Lloyd C. Blankfein, in 2007, the largest ever on Wall Street.
Early this year Dr. Simmons said the criticism directed at Goldman was not the reason she gave up her position. She would not comment on whether the salaries the board had approved over the past decade were appropriate, except to say, ''The environment for salaries on Wall Street has evolved over a period of time, and the environment today is different.''
She also said that the job had become harder and more time-consuming. The financial crisis, in particular, added to the burden.
Dr. Simmons has cut back on her corporate service, and now sits on the board of only one company, Texas Instruments. In that respect, she is emblematic of a movement to limit the number of boards each president serves. In the University of California system, for example, the Board of Regents voted in January to restrict board membership for its chancellors to three.
Raymond D. Cotton, a partner at the Washington law firm Mintz Levin who specializes in presidential contracts and has represented about 250 institutions, says he recommends to universities that they write into contracts that the president can serve on a maximum of two boards.
There can be outliers like Dr. Jackson, who seems to have done a ''terrific job at R.P.I. especially in fund-raising,'' he says. ''But in general, at some point in time a university board has to say enough is enough.''
A HOST of separate questions come into play when a college or university has some other relationship with the company.
Can a president be independent?
At the University of Washington, Dr. Wise's appointment to the Nike board, where she sits on the social responsibility committee, had become controversial on the campus in Seattle. Some questioned whether she should be drawing $50,000 in cash and $70,000 in stock options from Nike, in addition to a $559,000 salary, for a role she won mainly, they say, as a consequence of her position as head of a public university.
In July, however, Dr. Wise announced that she was donating her income from Nike to student scholarships.
Others have questioned whether she will be able to do her job properly on the board at the same time Nike has a contract to give $35 million in cash and athletic equipment to the university over 10 years. The apparel company also pays the university around $110,000 a year for the right to sell Washington shirts.
As a further sign of how complicated the issue can become, some academics at the University of Washington protested that Dr. Wise's presence on the board meant they would not be able to criticize Nike over its labor policy, in particular the treatment of workers at factories in the developing world.
''She is the chief academic officer of the university, to whom all faculty report, and her affiliation with Nike creates incentives for faculty to be less vocal about Nike's human rights record,'' said Angelina S. Godoy, director of the university's Center for Human Rights. However, Ms. Godoy said a recent landmark agreement between Nike and unions in Honduras made her less concerned about the university's relationship with Nike.
In an interview before Nike announced the Honduras agreement, Dr. Wise rebutted the idea that her presence on the board would make her colleagues less critical of Nike. She says she can manage any conflicts of interest and will recuse herself from university decisions involving Nike. She says she accepted the seat because it would give her decision-making and commercial know-how to put into practice on campus.
''Many years ago, academicians tended to be dreamers,'' she says. ''We assumed somebody else would figure out where the money was going to come from. That notion is no longer the case.''
As for what she brings to Nike, she says, ''I know a little bit how students think, what might drive their desire to look into Nike products.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (BU1)
Among the university officials who have served on corporate boards are Shirley Ann Jackson of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, left
Phyllis Wise of the University of Washington, above
and, below from left, John Hennessy of Stanford, Ruth Simmons of Brown and Steven Sample of the University of Southern California. The alliances can become controversial when a business runs into problems like those of BP and Goldman Sachs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARY LEVIN/UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
LINDA A. CICERO/STANFORD UNIVERSITY
DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU4) CHARTS: A Lucrative Side Job: More university presidents or top academics are serving on corporate boards. They can receive six-figure salaries for their work and expertise. But some analysts question whether they can monitor each company effectively when they serve on multiple boards. (Sources: Equilar
The Chronicle of Higher Education
 tax filings) (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PHYSICS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); TRENDS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BUDGETS (67%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); WILLIAM WRIGLEY JR CO (71%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (68%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (53%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (68%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); SIC2067 CHEWING GUM (71%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



26 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Many Indigent Refugees to Lose Federal Assistance

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Social Security Administration is about to terminate cash assistance for thousands of indigent refugees who are severely disabled or over the age of 64.
''You will lose your Supplemental Security Income on Oct. 1,'' the agency says in letters being mailed to more than 3,800 refugees.
All fled persecution or torture. Many are too old or infirm to work and are not yet eligible to become United States citizens. 
Federal law sets a seven-year limit on payments to refugees. The maximum federal payment is $674 a month for an individual and $1,011 a month for a couple. In 2008, Congress provided a two-year extension of benefits for elderly and disabled refugees, asylum seekers and certain other humanitarian immigrants, including victims of sex trafficking.
The extra eligibility period is now ending, and Congress has not taken action to extend it.
Among those expected to lose benefits are a Sudanese couple, Obid Sharif and Buthaina Elamin Adam, both 73. They came to this country in 2000, obtained asylum and live in Reston, Va.
They have permanent resident status, or green cards, but cannot apply for citizenship for several years.
''Supplemental Security Income is their only source of income,'' said their son, Haitham Mahmoud. ''Without it, life for them will be really difficult.''
Mr. Mahmoud said his father, who has prostate cancer, and his mother, who has heart trouble, would probably lose their health insurance when their cash benefits were cut off.
The extension of benefits in 2008 had bipartisan support. Indeed, President George W. Bush had asked Congress to extend the deadline, saying that ''some individuals have been unable to obtain citizenship within the seven-year time limit.''
But no bill has been introduced in either chamber of Congress to help refugees facing the loss of benefits this year.
''It's clear that any bill designed to help needy populations has a hard road to travel,'' said Representative Jim McDermott, a Washington Democrat and chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee that is responsible for the program.
It was only with great difficulty that Congress passed an extension of unemployment benefits for 2.5 million Americans last month, Mr. McDermott pointed out.
As a senator, President Obama was co-sponsor of a bill extending refugees' eligibility for cash assistance, and as a presidential candidate he emphasized his support for it. But the administration has not taken a position this year.
Mark Hinkle, a spokesman for Social Security, said the administration had not sent Congress a proposal to extend benefits.
Kenneth S. Baer, a spokesman for the White House Office of Management and Budget, said, ''The administration has been following this issue closely and consulting with stakeholders and members of Congress to develop an appropriate response.''
Tyler T. Moran, policy director of the National Immigration Law Center, an advocacy group for low-income immigrants, said: ''Advocates have been in touch with White House and Social Security officials, urging them to weigh in with Congress on this issue. To date, nothing has happened. We remain hopeful.''
The refugees and asylum seekers come from countries like Cuba, Haiti, Iran, Iraq, Russia, Somalia and Vietnam. They include Jews who fled religious persecution in the former Soviet Union, Iraqi Kurds oppressed by Saddam Hussein and Hmong tribesmen who fought with American forces in the Vietnam War.
Many Jewish refugees from Russia were 70 or older when they were admitted to the United States and have had difficulty learning English, said Melanie Nezer, director of the Washington office of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.
Some are homebound, do not know how to apply for citizenship and do not realize that help is available, Ms. Nezer said. Some, she said, have difficulty paying the application fee for naturalization, which is at least $595 and may be as high as $675.
Others likely to lose benefits include Olga Muhtarova, 79, who received asylum after coming to the United States from Uzbekistan in 1998. Her friend Gretchen Vogelzang, who helps her deal with government agencies, said: ''She would love nothing more than to become a U.S. citizen. She's making a good-faith effort to do so, taking classes in English and civics.''
But, Ms. Vogelzang said, ''Olga is going to lose her S.S.I. because she got a green card last year and will not be able to apply for citizenship until 2014.''
After receiving a green card, an immigrant must ordinarily wait five years before becoming eligible for citizenship.
Another immigrant, Ajisa Suljic, fled Bosnia in 2002, having lost her husband, father and two brothers in the war there. Ms. Suljic, 52, is severely depressed and has received Supplemental Security Income because of a medical disability.
Her daughter, Munisa, said Ms. Suljic had applied for citizenship but could not afford the fee or get a waiver.
Mr. Hinkle, the spokesman for Social Security, said that refugees receiving cash assistance might qualify for an additional year of benefits if they could show that they had filed applications for citizenship with the Department of Homeland Security. He said he did not know how many applications were pending.
Congress set a time limit on assistance for refugees as part of a comprehensive welfare law adopted in 1996. The stated purpose of the restrictions was to control costs, promote self-sufficiency and ensure that ''the availability of public benefits not constitute an incentive for immigration to the United States.''
Lawmakers assumed that refugees who still needed help could become citizens and qualify for benefits beyond the time limit. But for many refugees that has proved impossible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (92%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); REFUGEES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); AGING (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); CITIZENSHIP (69%); MEN'S HEALTH (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%); SEX TRAFFICKING (54%); PROSTATE DISEASE (52%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); PROSTATE CANCER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JIM MCDERMOTT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



27 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: A Call to Fix the Fundamentals

BYLINE: By NANCY F. KOEHN. 
Nancy F. Koehn is a historian at the Harvard Business School.

 BODY:
IN 2005, Raghuram G. Rajan told a meeting of the world's top central bankers, Alan Greenspan included, that the global financial system was threatened from within and might well be facing a full-blown crisis. At the time, he says, he was roundly criticized. But given what happened a few years later we may not want to dismiss his recent assertion that the global economy is vulnerable to another implosion.
In ''Fault Lines: How Hidden Fractures Still Threaten the World Economy'' (Princeton University, $26.95), Mr. Rajan concludes that the financial crisis erupted ''because in an integrated economy and in an integrated world, what is best for the individual actor or institution is not always best for the system.'' 
Like geological fault lines, the fissures in the world economic system are more hidden and widespread than many realize, he says. And they are potentially more destructive than other, more obvious culprits, like greedy bankers, sleepy regulators and irresponsible borrowers.
Mr. Rajan, a finance professor at the University of Chicago and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, argues that the actions of these players (and others) unfolded on a larger worldwide stage, that was (and is) subject to the imperatives of political economies.
He cites three fault lines: domestic political stresses; trade imbalances among countries; and the tensions produced when financial systems with very different structures interact. All three came together to damage the financial sector in 2008, he says, and could meet again to cause another crisis.
The map that Mr. Rajan traces starts with rising income inequality in the United States -- a powerful domestic stress. Washington's response was to provide easy credit, in particular a national home ownership strategy.
At the same time, many of the world's big economies, including Japan, Germany and China, were growing more dependent on American demand for their exports. These nations were left with a relatively weak domestic-oriented sector. A reliance on exports led to huge trade imbalances among countries, creating another fault line.
Yet another fault line occurred with the meeting of two distinct financial systems. The first, which he calls an arms-length system, is based on transparency and legal safeguards, like those of the United States and Britain. The second, a relationship system, relies on close, informal ties among people and institutions. Examples of the latter include China, Japan and South Korea.
Mr. Rajan says foreign investors from arms-length systems who put capital in countries with relationship systems tend to erect safeguards to lower their risk -- like offering short-term loans that can be withdrawn quickly.
He describes the potentially destructive consequences of this strategy -- directly for the borrowing countries, and indirectly for the global economy. For example, when loans in countries like Indonesia started underperforming in the late 1990s, foreign investors reacted by yanking out their money. Many developing countries then experienced devastating financial crises.
Indonesia and other nations that relied on this type of foreign capital thus inadvertently left themselves open to debilitating booms and busts. It's understandable, then, that some countries turned instead to the perceived safety of export-led growth, with its commitment to an undervalued currency and its buildup of foreign exchange reserves. The consumer-driven United States was an obvious choice to receive these exports, becoming the ''demander of last resort.''
All of these fault lines met in an amoral global financial system sustained by United States monetary policy. Beginning in the early 1990s, the Federal Reserve chose to keep interest rates relatively low in response to economic recoveries characterized by slow job creation and, in some instances, job losses.
''The U.S. political system,'' Mr. Rajan notes, ''is acutely sensitive to job growth because of the economy's weak safety nets,'' creating pressure for a series of ad hoc policies that have effectively steered the American economy from bubble to bubble and created damaging incentives. With interest rates kept low, financial players sought out riskier investments carrying higher returns. The possibility of government bailouts in the event of catastrophe further distorted attitudes toward risk.
MR. RAJAN unpacks how individual choices made by bankers and monetary authorities around the world can be seen as rational responses to the largely hidden flaws in the global financial system. This is not meant to absolve the bankers, he says, some of whom recognized the risk that these systemic flaws posed and profited from it.
He makes passing reference to the role of individuals and organizations that fueled the crisis, including bankers who paid themselves huge bonuses, lax regulators and rating agencies that blessed billions of dollars of dubious collateralized subprime debt. But to Mr. Rajan, systems and large historical forces were the primary drivers of financial instability.
He concludes with systemic proposals for financial and political reform. These include making failed financial firms easier to break up (thus enhancing market discipline and risk management) and improving access to education that would help most Americans earn a living wage (thus decreasing the political and economic pressure for constant monetary stimulation).
Mr. Rajan has written a serious and thoughtful book, but something is missing from his analysis. What is the role of human agency -- of effective leadership, employee engagement, public service on the part of concerned citizens newly anxious to play a part in an increasingly interdependent world?
If we, as members of a global village, are to create something lasting and good out of the rubble of the 2008 crisis, we need more than efficient interconnected systems. We need effective leadership harnessed to worthy goals -- leadership that emanates from all levels of society and that is not for sale.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

TITLE: Fault Lines: How Hidden Fractures Still Threaten the World Economy (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



28 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: What They're Not Telling You

 BODY:
There is a lot of heated talk in Washington these days about the deficit, unfortunately little of it serious. Playing on Americans' deep anxiety about the economy, Republican politicians have seized the deficit issue as their own -- eagerly blaming the stimulus and even an extension of unemployment insurance for the problem -- while denying their own culpability for helping dig this deep hole with years of irresponsible tax cuts.
The Democrats in Congress have all but ceded the debate. The White House has pushed back some, but as the polls make clear, not nearly hard enough.
The deficit's size is alarming. In the 2010 fiscal year, the government is projected to collect $2.2 trillion in taxes and spend $3.6 trillion, leaving a gap of $1.4 trillion. 
If current tax and spending policies continue, deficits are estimated to remain near $1 trillion a year for the next decade. After that they will explode -- to twice the size of today's deficit as a share of the economy by 2050 -- as health costs rise and the population ages, and outlays for Medicare, Medicaid and, to a lesser extent, Social Security continue to grow faster than revenues.
We agree the situation is unsustainable. But cutting spending right now on relief and recovery efforts would worsen the economic slowdown and the suffering of millions of Americans, while making only a tiny dent in future deficits.
Spending on the biggest items in the budget (Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security make up about 40 percent) cannot be quickly cut back without unraveling the programs and inflicting deep and needless hardship on their beneficiaries. In the longer term, starting around middecade, Washington will have to begin wrestling the costs of these programs down, or the country will face an even bigger deficit crisis.
When it comes to controlling the near-term problem -- trillion-dollar deficits every year for the next 10 years -- the biggest help will be a return to solid economic growth and, with that, increasing tax revenues.
Growth will not be enough. There is no chance to put the budget on a sustainable path without significant tax increases, and not just on the wealthy. Few politicians, of either party, are willing to tell that truth.
Americans are right to worry about the deficit. They must also demand that their elected representatives do more than rail about the problem and begin a serious debate about the policy choices ahead. Here are some of the key issues that must be considered:
HOW DID WE GET HERE? When President Bill Clinton left office in 2001, the government had run surpluses for three straight years. By the time President George W. Bush left the White House, the government had run deficits for seven straight years, and the Congressional Budget Office projected a 2009 deficit of over $1 trillion.
Much of the deterioration resulted from huge Bush-era tax cuts, which left the nation chronically short of revenue, especially when it had to pay for two wars. And because the budget was already in bad shape when the financial crisis hit in late 2008, the necessary spending to rescue the system only deepened an already deep deficit. Unchastened, Republicans -- joined by a few Democrats -- are now determined to dig the hole even deeper by calling for all of the Bush tax cuts to be extended beyond their scheduled expiration at the end of this year.
WHAT ABOUT THE STIMULUS? The deficit has risen further under President Obama, to about $1.4 trillion this year, as the White House has tried to contain the recession it inherited.
The $862 billion economic stimulus, enacted by the Obama administration and Congress in 2009 along with subsequent aid, like extended jobless benefits, prevented a bad situation from becoming much worse, by supporting consumer demand at a time when private sector demand had collapsed. More help is needed. So far, stimulus accounts for an estimated 15 percent of the deficit in 2009, 28 percent in 2010 and 14 percent in 2011.
DOES THE BUDGET HAVE TO BE BALANCED? An economically powerful country can prudently run some deficits. A reasonable budget goal would be to reduce annual deficits to the point where the debt -- the sum total of annual deficits, now $9 trillion -- is no longer growing faster than the economy. Once the debt is stable, the nation would most likely avoid the worst effects of persistent deficits, including sharply higher interest rates and slower growth.
Under current projections, that would require cutting the deficit to about 3 percent of gross domestic product from 10 percent today. When he established a bipartisan deficit commission, Mr. Obama called for reaching such a goal by 2015. Given today's weak economy, that is probably too rapid. The aim is sound, even if it takes closer to a decade to get there.
WHERE ARE THE SAVINGS? The government needs to tighten its belt. Finding deep, near-term savings will not be easy for one basic fact: the largest chunk of the budget -- the 40 percent going to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- is the most difficult to cut, politically and for sound policy reasons.
Most plausible measures to slow the growth in Medicare and Medicaid over the next decade have already been spoken for in the health care reform legislation, and many of the research projects and pilot programs intended to slow the growth of medical costs will not yield results for several years. Congress and the White House will certainly have to keep pushing them forward. Any changes to Social Security would have to be phased in over decades, to protect Americans in or near retirement. A combination of modest benefit cuts and modest tax increases would fix the program.
Another 6 percent of the budget is the interest on the national debt, which must be paid.
So what can be cut now? Less than 20 percent of the budget is so-called nondefense, discretionary spending. That includes spending on important and popular programs, including education, environmental protection, veterans' health care, food and drug safety, scientific research, diplomacy and basic infrastructure. Mr. Obama's proposed three-year freeze on discretionary spending (defense and national security are excluded) would save $11 billion next year and modest amounts later.
Once the economy recovers, more savings may be possible. But there is not as much fat there as the politicians may claim. In recent years, spending in most of these categories has been flat or barely rising.
Defense spending -- $690 billion in 2010, or 4.7 percent of G.D.P. -- accounts for another 20 percent of the budget. That has traditionally been politically off limits but there will have to be some very hard thinking there.
Another 14 percent of 2010 spending is for safety net programs, like unemployment benefits, food stamps and help for the working poor. Cutting back now would slow the recovery even further. Once things turn around, some of the costs will diminish, but additional cuts in the programs would harm the neediest Americans.
WHERE IS THE REVENUE? There is no way to deal with the deficit without also raising taxes. As the economy improves, tax revenues could rise to $3.6 trillion in 2015 and $4.6 trillion in 2020, according to the Congressional Budget Office, compared with $2.2 trillion this year.
That, however, assumes that all of the Bush-era tax cuts expire at the end of this year, and that is not going to happen. The Obama administration and Democratic Congressional leaders want to let the tax cuts on the richest Americans expire, while extending the so-called middle class tax cuts -- generally, those for taxpayers making less than $250,000. That would cost an estimated $2.9 trillion over 10 years.
One way to stanch that loss would be to make the middle class tax-cut extension temporary, and in the meantime, undertake tax reform to increase revenue by broadening the tax base and adding a value-added tax. Republicans, predictably, want to extend all of the Bush tax cuts, including for the richest taxpayers, permanently. If all of the tax cuts are extended, the revenue loss over the next 10 years will be some $3.7 trillion.
When the deficit-reduction committee issues its report in December, we hope it will explain the tough truths about the causes of the deficit and the painful choices that will have to be made.
President Obama cannot wait until then. In the fall campaign, there will be even more disinformation and demagoguing about the deficit. He needs to frame the debate. That means saying what the Republicans will not: there is no way to fix the nation's fiscal crisis without higher taxes now and in the future -- and cuts in entitlement programs down the road.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MEDICARE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); MEDICAID (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



29 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Four Deformations of the Apocalypse

BYLINE: By DAVID STOCKMAN. 
David Stockman, a director of the Office of Management and Budget under President Ronald Reagan, is working on a book about the financial crisis.

 BODY:
IF there were such a thing as Chapter 11 for politicians, the Republican push to extend the unaffordable Bush tax cuts would amount to a bankruptcy filing. The nation's public debt -- if honestly reckoned to include municipal bonds and the $7 trillion of new deficits baked into the cake through 2015 -- will soon reach $18 trillion. That's a Greece-scale 120 percent of gross domestic product, and fairly screams out for austerity and sacrifice. It is therefore unseemly for the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, to insist that the nation's wealthiest taxpayers be spared even a three-percentage-point rate increase.
More fundamentally, Mr. McConnell's stand puts the lie to the Republican pretense that its new monetarist and supply-side doctrines are rooted in its traditional financial philosophy. Republicans used to believe that prosperity depended upon the regular balancing of accounts -- in government, in international trade, on the ledgers of central banks and in the financial affairs of private households and businesses, too. But the new catechism, as practiced by Republican policymakers for decades now, has amounted to little more than money printing and deficit finance -- vulgar Keynesianism robed in the ideological vestments of the prosperous classes. 
This approach has not simply made a mockery of traditional party ideals. It has also led to the serial financial bubbles and Wall Street depredations that have crippled our economy. More specifically, the new policy doctrines have caused four great deformations of the national economy, and modern Republicans have turned a blind eye to each one.
The first of these started when the Nixon administration defaulted on American obligations under the 1944 Bretton Woods agreement to balance our accounts with the world. Now, since we have lived beyond our means as a nation for nearly 40 years, our cumulative current-account deficit -- the combined shortfall on our trade in goods, services and income -- has reached nearly $8 trillion. That's borrowed prosperity on an epic scale.
It is also an outcome that Milton Friedman said could never happen when, in 1971, he persuaded President Nixon to unleash on the world paper dollars no longer redeemable in gold or other fixed monetary reserves. Just let the free market set currency exchange rates, he said, and trade deficits will self-correct.
It may be true that governments, because they intervene in foreign exchange markets, have never completely allowed their currencies to float freely. But that does not absolve Friedman's $8 trillion error. Once relieved of the discipline of defending a fixed value for their currencies, politicians the world over were free to cheapen their money and disregard their neighbors.
In fact, since chronic current-account deficits result from a nation spending more than it earns, stringent domestic belt-tightening is the only cure. When the dollar was tied to fixed exchange rates, politicians were willing to administer the needed castor oil, because the alternative was to make up for the trade shortfall by paying out reserves, and this would cause immediate economic pain -- from high interest rates, for example. But now there is no discipline, only global monetary chaos as foreign central banks run their own printing presses at ever faster speeds to sop up the tidal wave of dollars coming from the Federal Reserve.
The second unhappy change in the American economy has been the extraordinary growth of our public debt. In 1970 it was just 40 percent of gross domestic product, or about $425 billion. When it reaches $18 trillion, it will be 40 times greater than in 1970. This debt explosion has resulted not from big spending by the Democrats, but instead the Republican Party's embrace, about three decades ago, of the insidious doctrine that deficits don't matter if they result from tax cuts.
In 1981, traditional Republicans supported tax cuts, matched by spending cuts, to offset the way inflation was pushing many taxpayers into higher brackets and to spur investment. The Reagan administration's hastily prepared fiscal blueprint, however, was no match for the primordial forces -- the welfare state and the warfare state -- that drive the federal spending machine.
Soon, the neocons were pushing the military budget skyward. And the Republicans on Capitol Hill who were supposed to cut spending exempted from the knife most of the domestic budget -- entitlements, farm subsidies, education, water projects. But in the end it was a new cadre of ideological tax-cutters who killed the Republicans' fiscal religion.
Through the 1984 election, the old guard earnestly tried to control the deficit, rolling back about 40 percent of the original Reagan tax cuts. But when, in the following years, the Federal Reserve chairman, Paul Volcker, finally crushed inflation, enabling a solid economic rebound, the new tax-cutters not only claimed victory for their supply-side strategy but hooked Republicans for good on the delusion that the economy will outgrow the deficit if plied with enough tax cuts.
By fiscal year 2009, the tax-cutters had reduced federal revenues to 15 percent of gross domestic product, lower than they had been since the 1940s. Then, after rarely vetoing a budget bill and engaging in two unfinanced foreign military adventures, George W. Bush surrendered on domestic spending cuts, too -- signing into law $420 billion in non-defense appropriations, a 65 percent gain from the $260 billion he had inherited eight years earlier. Republicans thus joined the Democrats in a shameless embrace of a free-lunch fiscal policy.
The third ominous change in the American economy has been the vast, unproductive expansion of our financial sector. Here, Republicans have been oblivious to the grave danger of flooding financial markets with freely printed money and, at the same time, removing traditional restrictions on leverage and speculation. As a result, the combined assets of conventional banks and the so-called shadow banking system (including investment banks and finance companies) grew from a mere $500 billion in 1970 to $30 trillion by September 2008.
But the trillion-dollar conglomerates that inhabit this new financial world are not free enterprises. They are rather wards of the state, extracting billions from the economy with a lot of pointless speculation in stocks, bonds, commodities and derivatives. They could never have survived, much less thrived, if their deposits had not been government-guaranteed and if they hadn't been able to obtain virtually free money from the Fed's discount window to cover their bad bets.
The fourth destructive change has been the hollowing out of the larger American economy. Having lived beyond our means for decades by borrowing heavily from abroad, we have steadily sent jobs and production offshore. In the past decade, the number of high-value jobs in goods production and in service categories like trade, transportation, information technology and the professions has shrunk by 12 percent, to 68 million from 77 million. The only reason we have not experienced a severe reduction in nonfarm payrolls since 2000 is that there has been a gain in low-paying, often part-time positions in places like bars, hotels and nursing homes.
It is not surprising, then, that during the last bubble (from 2002 to 2006) the top 1 percent of Americans -- paid mainly from the Wall Street casino -- received two-thirds of the gain in national income, while the bottom 90 percent -- mainly dependent on Main Street's shrinking economy -- got only 12 percent. This growing wealth gap is not the market's fault. It's the decaying fruit of bad economic policy.
The day of national reckoning has arrived. We will not have a conventional business recovery now, but rather a long hangover of debt liquidation and downsizing -- as suggested by last week's news that the national economy grew at an anemic annual rate of 2.4 percent in the second quarter. Under these circumstances, it's a pity that the modern Republican Party offers the American people an irrelevant platform of recycled Keynesianism when the old approach -- balanced budgets, sound money and financial discipline -- is needed more than ever.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (88%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BONDS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



30 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Offer Help From Afar In Fall Election

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As lunch was served in the Roosevelt Room of the White House one day last week, President Obama assured the nine Democratic members of Congress sitting around the table that he would do anything he could to help them survive their fall elections.
Even, he said, if it meant staying away.
''You may not even want me to come to your district,'' Mr. Obama said, according to guests, nearly all of whom hold seats that Republicans are aggressively seeking.
Three months before the midterm elections, the president is stepping up his involvement in the fight to preserve the Democratic Party's control of Congress. But advisers said he would concentrate largely on delivering a message, raising money and motivating voters from afar, rather than on racing from district to district. 
It is a vivid shift from the last two elections, when Mr. Obama was the hottest draw for Democratic candidates in red and blue states alike. And it highlights the tough choices Democrats face as they head toward Election Day with the president's approval ratings depressed, Republicans energized, the economic slump still lingering and two veteran House Democrats now facing public hearings on ethics charges.
Democrats who are on the ballot hope to make the election about issues other than Mr. Obama, including the benefits to their constituents of the health care and stimulus legislation and the argument that voting Republican means a return to the policies of President George W. Bush.
That line of thinking is largely shared inside the West Wing, where advisers are trying to determine the balance between using Mr. Obama to inspire voters and keeping him from becoming a defining negative presence. Already, Mr. Obama is popping up more as a target in Republican campaign advertisements than as a positive presence in Democratic ones.
Yet at the same time, many Democrats continue to demand more help from Mr. Obama and his team, and question whether the White House is as committed to their fates this year as it is to the president's re-election in 2012.
When Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, was asked last week whether he was convinced that Mr. Obama was fully focused on the midterm election campaign, he paused for 18 seconds and lowered his head before continuing.
''I don't know the answer to that,'' said Mr. Connolly, chairman of the freshman class of Democrats, who were elected in 2008. ''I am confident they will focus. I'm confident at the end of the day that they understand that significant losses or loss of control will have a terribly serious negative impact on his presidency.''
The president has taken several steps to ease tensions.
He is headlining a dozen fund-raisers in August, and he has purposefully sharpened his rhetoric against Republicans to help lead the political debate. The Democratic National Committee is spending heavily on House and Senate races and on a program intended to draw first-time voters from the 2008 Obama campaign to the polls in November.
The White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, is a point person for members of Congress and governors seeking campaign help or advice. The president has sent top advisers to weekly meetings on Capitol Hill to help coordinate the party's message.
The White House responded to complaints that the president had been bashing Washington -- Democrats included -- rather than framing the election as a path to avoid returning to Republican policies from the Bush era, not a referendum on the Obama administration.
The president, sensitive to the strains between the White House and Capitol Hill, has started inviting small groups of rank-and-file Democrats over for lunch. At a session last week, participants said, Mr. Obama made clear that he understood many lawmakers had taken difficult political votes to support his agenda.
David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president, said, ''I have great admiration and solicitude for those members because they've had to make tough decisions in a difficult time.'' He added: ''This is a tough election. They've got a lot on the line here, so I think there's a natural anxiety. But the notion that we're not fully supportive is not rooted in reality.''
But several Democratic candidates and party leaders said in interviews that they were not sure Mr. Obama's political operation was focused on the 2010 fight, and they questioned whether the president sees himself as the head of the party.
A huge database of people who supported Mr. Obama's presidential bid remains off-limits to other Democrats, unless special exceptions are made. Several elected officials have complained that requests for fund-raisers and other types of help get lost in the bureaucracy and are not granted until repeated appeals are made. And members of Congress have raised objections for not being notified that grants or federal projects would be announced in their districts.
More generally, some Democrats suggested that the Obama political team was too insular, sometimes leaving candidates feeling cut off and in the dark about decisions being made in the White House and at the Democratic National Committee.
''I think much of the House is in a wait-and-see mode to see how helpful the president will be,'' said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, who said he believed that Mr. Obama should spend more time outside the White House. ''He has to come into these districts with the same gusto and the same sense of hope that he came into the election with.''
Even Michelle Obama's role has emerged as a source of tension between some Democrats and the White House. Party leaders believe that she could be of critical help in reaching some women. Mr. Obama brought the subject up during his lunch with the group of House members last week.
''I'll bet you want Michelle,'' the president told the group, participants said, acknowledging that his popularity was significantly lower than that of the first lady -- a significant turnaround from some of the more heated days of the 2008 campaign, when Mrs. Obama was widely viewed as a political liability to her husband.
Yet the White House has not granted any requests for Mrs. Obama to campaign for Democrats or decided whether she will have any role in the midterm elections. (Advisers said she is primarily focused on being a mother and on her own initiatives, like childhood obesity.)
For all the questions about whether the White House is doing enough, the Democratic National Committee, under Mr. Obama's control, is investing $20 million in campaigns for the House and the Senate. Smaller investments are being made in governors' races, including in states like Ohio and Florida that will be critical to Mr. Obama's re-election in 2012.
And the committee has pledged $30 million to turn out voters. The party has built an extensive modeling and targeting operation, where an individual score is assigned to every voter in a Congressional district, giving strategists the ability to find supporters (particularly those first-time voters who backed Obama) and make sure they cast ballots. And Mr. Obama has started sending more e-mails and has recorded phone calls on behalf of some candidates.
''We have to close that enthusiasm gap that exists around the country,'' said David Plouffe, who managed the Obama campaign in 2008 and is the president's top political strategist.
Three high-profile Democratic defeats -- governor's races in Virginia and New Jersey last year, and the election to choose a successor to Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts early this year -- taught the White House at least one thing that is being applied to the midterm elections: Mr. Obama cannot swoop in at the 11th hour and turn a local race.
''The president can't just whistle and point and make them turn out for someone, but the president can help make the introduction,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director.
Mr. Pfeiffer is among the advisers who meet weekly in the Ward Room of the White House, a small room near the Mess Hall in the lower level of the West Wing that is specifically designated for political discussions. The president's chief pollster, Joel Benenson, presents his findings, along with Jim Messina, the deputy chief of staff, and Patrick Gaspard, the White House political director.
These days, the discussion includes deciding where the president can travel -- based, in part, on his approval rating and the local political environment. And for the first time since Mr. Obama arrived on the national scene six years ago, when he was on the United States Senate ballot in Illinois, the answer is no longer everywhere.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Gerald E. Connolly, top, hopes the Obama team will focus on the fall. David Plouffe, an Obama adviser, says Democrats must close an ''enthusiasm gap.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BYBRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LIONEL CIRONNEAU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A21) MAP: A Burst of Presidential Fund-Raising: President Obama opens his biggest fund-raising foray yet, with events planned across the country in August. He has committed to additional stops in September, with his ability to raise money one of his top contributions to the Democratic Party's midterm election effort. (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ETHICS (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (66%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GERRY CONNOLLY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



31 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Hints of Recovery for a Riverfront Town

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
FIVE years ago, elected officials and developers had high hopes for the 2.2-square-mile riverfront village of Haverstraw in Rockland County.
Real estate was booming back then, and the officials thought that the village's location, just 30 miles north of Manhattan, and its setting -- between the Hudson River and High Tor Mountain, the tallest peak in the Palisades -- would help it be discovered by investors and new residents.
But the recession intervened in 2008. Property values plummeted, some downtown businesses closed, construction stopped at a luxury condominium complex and a $40,000 downtown revitalization grant from the state fell through. A successful tax challenge four years ago by the Mirant Corporation, a power company, sent property taxes soaring.
One-time concerns about gentrification of the modest village, as well as the possible displacement of its poorer residents -- 44 percent of the students at the two public schools in the village are eligible for free and reduced-price lunches -- quickly faded. 
Today, many homeowners are shouldering an increased tax burden and now say they are barely getting by, and some landlords have turned a blind eye to overcrowding in apartments where rents have risen, according to Michael F. Kohut, the mayor since 2007.
But there is the hint of a recovery in this village of 11,000 residents -- the largest municipality in the 22.7-square-mile Town of Haverstraw, which also includes the village of West Haverstraw, part of the village of Pomona and the hamlets of Thiells and Garnerville.
The village of Haverstraw may have stumbled economically, ''but it didn't slip into the abyss altogether,'' Mr. Kohut said.
After a yearlong hiatus, the rumble of construction equipment can be heard again at the latest phase of Harbors at Haverstraw, the luxury condominium development by GDC Homes, based in Westchester. And while the empty storefronts of shuttered businesses are still visible downtown, some new enterprises, including several restaurants, have moved in.
Also, because the residential housing market is depressed, former renters like Carlos Delaguila, who immigrated to the United States in 1996 from Lima, Peru, have been able to afford to buy.
Mr. Delaguila, 34, a technical specialist for BMW of North America in Montvale, N.J., and his wife, Anne Marie, 27, a stay-at-home mother for their 11-month old daughter, Sarah, recently bought a three-bedroom two-bath home in the village for $210,000 that had been listed for $237,000.
Three years ago, Mr. Delaguila said, the house would have been priced in the high $300,000s. ''I couldn't have touched it,'' he said.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
There are two distinctly different sections in the village: one is the 15-acre site occupied by the 300 condos and town houses at Harbors at Haverstraw, which opened in 2006. More than 100 condos in a building under construction are for sale. And there are plans for another condo building and several town houses for a total of 50 more units. In all, the developer has plans for up to 800 units in the village.
The rest of the village is made up mostly of a grid of streets with modest wood-framed houses on small lots.
A distinct Hispanic influence can be seen in the older parts of the village, where there are bodegas and other Latino-themed retail stores. Puerto Ricans began to settle in Haverstraw in the 1940s, followed more recently by immigrants from the Dominican Republic and from Central and South America.
Several stately older homes were renovated before the recession hit, among them the mansarded 1865 Bricktown Inn, a bed-and-breakfast. Michelle and Joe Natale bought the three-story house in 1996 for about $200,000, refurbished it and finally opened the inn seven years ago. Mr. and Mrs. Natale, both 60, grew up in Haverstraw.
In the 1950s, before the advent of the shopping malls in Rockland County near Nyack, ''Haverstraw was a booming little business district,'' Mrs. Natale recalled. ''We had many stores -- bakeries, clothing stores, even three shoe stores.''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
The median sales price of a single-family house over the last 12 months was $325,000, up 4.5 percent from a median of $311,000 for the 12 months before that, according to statistics from Better Homes and Gardens Rand Realty. The higher median reflects more activity at the high end of the market, even though sellers over all have come down in price, said Nancy Lombardo, a branch manager and broker for Rand Realty.
The largest drop in prices can be seen in the village's condo market, which was hard hit by the recession. The median sales price for a condo in the last 12 months was $212,500, down 11.5 percent from $240,000 in the previous 12 months, according to Rand Realty.
A two-bedroom two-bath condo at Harbors at Haverstraw that sold for $525,000 in 2006 is now listed at $300,000, Ms. Lombardo said. The seller first listed the unit at $430,000 and then dropped the price another $130,000. ''That's an example of what's going on these days,'' Ms. Lombardo said.
Meanwhile, people like Maria and Juan Guzman, the owners of a local bodega, who bought a three-bedroom one-bath house seven years ago for $240,000, are chafing because of property tax increases. Their bill has doubled, to $12,000 a year.
''It's becoming a very big problem for us,'' Mrs. Guzman said, noting that they can't afford to send their son, Darielle, 8, and their daughter, Daniella, 6, to the municipal summer camp this year.
Other properties currently on the market include a three-bedroom one-bath Cape Cod with a detached garage on a 0.09-acre lot is listed at $174,900; a three-bedroom two-and-a-half bath colonial with finished basement on a 0.11-acre lot is listed at $374,000; and a three-bedroom, three-and-a-half bath town house condominium at Harbors at Haverstraw is listed at $869,000.
WHAT TO DO
The downtown area has been showing signs of life. Union Restaurant and Bar Latino opened in a 5,000-square-foot former pool hall and draws customers from a broad area, including parts of New Jersey, said Paulo Feteira, one of the owners.
Another is Antoine McGuire's Oyster and Ale House, which offers a mix of French and Irish fare.
The town of Haverstraw offers several parks for residents, including Bowline Point Park on the river, which has a large public pool, a tennis court, volleyball courts, walking paths, a fishing pier and picnic areas. In Thiells, the town has a public 18-hole golf course, and Mount Ivy Park with baseball and softball courts, along with a jogging path and a trout-stocked creek for fishing.
There is also a movie theater at Palisades Center, in nearby West Nyack.
THE SCHOOLS
The village is part of the North Rockland Central School District, which has five elementary schools, among them, Gerald F. Neary in the village; three middle schools, including Haverstraw Middle School in the village; and North Rockland High School in Thiells.
On the New York State English Language Arts Assessment Tests for 2008-09, the latest year for which figures were available, 75 percent of students in Grades 5, 6 and 7 at Haverstraw Middle School met or exceeded proficiency standards for English Language Arts, and 89 percent met standards for math, compared with an average of 80 percent statewide and 90 percent respectively.
The average SAT scores at the high school in 2009 were 483 for reading, 497 for math and 478 for writing. State averages were 480, 500 and 470.
Of the 577 students graduating in June 2009, 65 percent went on to four-year colleges, 23 percent enrolled in two-year colleges, 3 percent went to trade or technical schools, 6 percent entered the work force and 1 percent joined the armed forces, said Joan Murphy, an assistant principal.
THE COMMUTE
Metro-North Railroad offers weekday transportation between Haverstraw and Grand Central Terminal that takes a bit more than a hour and occurs in two legs: by New York Waterway ferry from Haverstraw to Ossining, then train from Ossining to Grand Central on the Hudson Line of Metro-North Railroad. The ferry trip takes about 17 minutes and the train about 50 minutes during peak hours. A monthly commutation ticket that includes ferry and train service costs $276 if bought at the station.
THE HISTORY
Haverstraw was a brick-manufacturing center in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The bricks, made with the clay soil found near the banks of the Hudson River, were used to build some of New York City's buildings. In 1906, a landslide caused by excessive excavation of clay demolished several homes and killed 21 residents, according to the village's Web site.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BY THE RIVER: The housing stock in the village of Haverstraw includes an assortment of wood-framed houses, some historic and stately, like those above the Hudson River on First Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MAYORS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%)

COMPANY: NRG ENERGY INC (70%)

TICKER: NRG (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (70%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); PERU (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



32 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: How to Revive Gulf Fishing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Where Oysters Grew on Trees,'' by Rowan Jacobsen and Michael Beck (Op-Ed, July 25): 
The writers' call for a ''vision of coastal restoration,'' rather than just a cleanup of the gulf oil spill, is an inspiring idea. Unfortunately, the benefits for shrimpers in the Gulf of Mexico would be quickly lost amid open-access fishing, which drives the industry's historic excess capacity, inefficiency and poor returns.
For a better outcome, government officials should help shrimpers make the transition to a management system based on exclusive, transferable fishing rights. This would create incentives for establishment of an economically viable shrimping industry, with less accidental killing of valuable fish and sea turtles in its trawls.
Compared with the price tag for restoring the Mississippi Delta -- $17 billion, before Hurricane Katrina and the oil spill -- the cost of a management transition would be minuscule. And it would not expose the marine ecosystem to the risks of large-scale restoration.
Peter M. Emerson Houston, July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); WRITERS (78%); LAND RECLAMATION (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); OIL SPILLS (76%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (76%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HURRICANES (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (71%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



33 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Carrie Gardner, Jeremy Weinrib

 BODY:
Carrie Beth Gardner and Jeremy Alexander Weinrib are to be married Sunday at the Boathouse in Central Park. Cantor Ilan Mamber is to officiate. 
The bride, 34, teaches social studies at Ardsley High School in Ardsley, N.Y. She graduated from Tufts University magna cum laude and received a master's degree in education from Columbia.
She is the daughter of Susan R. Gardner and Saul D. Gardner of Ridgewood, N.J. Her father owns Jekyll & Hide, a luggage and leather-goods store there. Her mother is an elementary school teacher at Ridge School, also in Ridgewood.
The bridegroom, 32, is a director of technology, in New York, at ESPN, where he manages the development of mobile phone applications. He graduated from the University of Guelph in Ontario, and received a master's in information systems with distinction from the London School of Economics.
He is the son of Alice Adler and Arnold S. Weinrib of Toronto. His mother retired as a research associate at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education at the University of Toronto. His father is a professor and teaches tax and property law at the University of Toronto.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FUNICO STUDIOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); LUGGAGE & LEATHER GOODS STORES (70%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%) ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



34 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: The Born Identity

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
When I heard that Huggies had begun to sell a ''limited-edition jeans diaper,'' and that its bigger rival Pampers was offering a new diaper line carrying the imprimatur of the fashion designer Cynthia Rowley, it struck me as a throwback. Could there be a more absurd example of the sort of mindless conspicuous consumption that marked the years before ''credit default swap'' entered the national vocabulary? I seem to remember a lot of declarations that the urge to buy anything signaling nonthrifty behavior had been left behind as decisively as a house with an upside-down mortgage. Even TV commercials said so! 
But upon further reflection, it's a little too simple to conclude that designer diapers signal the return of the splurgy '00s. An ad for the Huggies jeans diapers -- obviously they're not really denim, just a denim-suggesting pattern -- pokes goofy fun at fashion tropes: women peep over their trendy shades to glimpse at a stylish player who turns out to be diapered child, pimp-rolling in slow motion to his convertible. A Euro-voice coos over an electro soundtrack, ''My diaper is full -- full of chic.'' It's parody, except the product is real, and really does cost more than standard diapers -- 40 percent more, according to a Los Angeles Times ''parentology'' blogger who reported that the product was selling out in some stores and than an ''online frenzy'' was under way.
Rowley's Pampers line, devised in conjunction with her ongoing relationship with Target, offers a more straight-faced rationale for setting aside tightwad habits to pay more for the very finest in things that will be soiled with excrement and thrown away. According to an official Pampers announcement: ''The diaper collection, which will be available in pastel designs including madras, stripes and printed ruffles suited specifically to babies and toddlers'' -- not to teenagers or the middle-aged, you understand -- ''delivers the perfect blend of utility and aesthetics.'' The same document quotes Rowley: ''As a mom, I wanted other moms and dads to have more options in every part of their lives -- even diapers. It's the first piece of clothing your baby will ever wear, and it should be special.''
Maybe you think that one thing America consumer culture had successfully delivered to its moms and dads was a sufficient number of options, or maybe you don't think of diapers as clothing. If that's your reaction, you're missing the point, just as I was. Designer diapers do not portend widespread return of pre-recession overspending habits. Most of us are going to need something more convincing than economists' declarations to persuade us that the recession has ended in the face of all the bleak news about jobs, income and debt. But even in penny-pinching times, parents still want to demonstrate how well (or at least tastefully) they are bringing up baby. Designer diapers are a useful tool for sending that message. And perhaps more to the point, they are also an extension of the well-established tendency among contemporary parents to treat their children as identity props. And it's plausible that this version of that behavior says something about this specific cultural moment.
For years, we've seen youngsters in luxury-brand outfits (if not in real life, then at least in magazine ads, where they often look distinctly insolent). Similarly, the onesie has long since been converted into a wearable billboard for parental taste, a means of swaddling infants in visual endorsements of the Ramones, the Yankees, Sarah Palin and any number of other things that a budding human does not yet understand. And it has been a couple of years at least since I marveled to a friend about tiny Timberland boots on the feet of beings as yet unable to walk, and she patiently explained to me that the concept of a fashion-aware baby was both funny and pleasing. If that is so, then clearly there's no reason not to extend the general idea to diapers.
Especially, perhaps, now. Surely there are those among us with the means to reclaim flashier pre-recession behaviors -- back before the president called upon us to ''set aside childish things'' -- yet remain squeamish about doing so. Why not satisfy the urge by putting your baby in a top-notch diaper? I have to admit, though, that this development makes me sad. One of the few genuinely charming things about infants, in my view, is their indifference to, and indeed ignorance of, the identity projection and status signaling that will soon enough complicate their lives. Do we really want the burden of society's designer desires being newly borne by the newly born? I don't think so.
Moreover, the disposable diaper seems like a particularly unfortunate vehicle for identity signaling, given its status as a longstanding bugaboo of many environmental crusaders disturbed by our throwaway culture. It's a regular tactic of the eco-concerned to prod us to imagine a future in which our children ask us, ''As the evidence mounted that the way we live might not be sustainable, what did you do?'' In this case the answer would be, ''We bought you some trendy diapers, and baby, you looked fantastic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE MARKS/GETTY IMAGES (TOP AND MIDDLE)
 THREE LIONS/GETTY IMAGES.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISPOSABLE DIAPERS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (87%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (71%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%)

COMPANY: CYNTHIA ROWLEY (58%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



35 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27B

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Age and the Demands of Managing

BYLINE: By DAN McGRATH

 BODY:
Lou Piniella turns 67 next month. Last week he decided that 23 years managing five big-league teams was enough, and he told the Cubs he would be stepping down and heading home to Tampa after the season.
''I'll miss it some, sure, but it will be like weaning a baby off a bottle,'' Piniella said. ''I'll find other things.''
Bobby Cox is 69, and he's calling it a career after 29 years, 25 of them running the Atlanta Braves, who have been postseason perennials on his watch. Joe Torre, 70, has managed 29 years with five teams and is weighing his future in the final year of a contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
That's at least 52 and possibly 81 years of Hall of Fame savvy leaving the game. Together the three have won six World Series (four by Torre) and 12 pennants and made 36 postseason appearances. Piniella's .519 winning percentage is the lowest of the three, dragged down by the bad teams he managed at Tampa Bay.
Cox is in line to make it 37 postseason showings with his young Braves leading the National League East. Torre and Piniella have been in the playoffs within the last two years, so it doesn't seem that any of the three seniors have lost their fastball. But Piniella believes the ever-increasing demands of the job make the 20-year man an endangered species, especially at Wrigley Field.
Like Don Baylor and Dusty Baker before him, Piniella arrived as a high-profile, highly successful manager elsewhere, but he didn't get it done here. Can anyone? Tony La Russa, a big-league skipper for 32 years, is on an expiring contract with the St. Louis Cardinals. He'll be in somebody's dugout next season, but it won't be the Cubs'.
''Ignore it,'' La Russa said of dreamy speculation that he could be Chicago-bound.
La Russa has won two World Series, five pennants and 12 division titles with the White Sox, Athletics and Cardinals. ''I've been in good situations,'' he said, as if that's all there is to surviving 32 years in a profession that eats its young. ''Solid organizations with good players that give you a chance to compete. And people who believe in you.''
La Russa, 66 in October, is eligible to join Piniella, Cox and Torre in an AARP foursome. He doesn't look 65, with his trim build and modishly styled, carefully colored hair. He seems to have escaped the physical impairments that dog Cox and Torre, also fending off the past-his-prime paunch Piniella tries to conceal beneath a windbreaker.
''You have to start early to get 20 years in,'' La Russa said. He was 34 when the White Sox hired him to replace player-manager Don Kessinger in August 1979. Since then, he has been unemployed for a total of three weeks.
La Russa's passion for the game burns on unabated, but ancillary matters continue to chafe him. In Chicago it was critical broadcasters; in Oakland it was the after-the-fact revelation that those Bash Brothers home runs were chemically enhanced. In St. Louis he has feuded with the Cardinals icon Ozzie Smith, and he manages in the Hall of Fame shadow of Whitey Herzog, whose simple tastes and affable personality made him pure St. Louis. Tony La Russa is pure baseball, delivered with white-hot intensity.
''Money and media'' are the biggest threats to his serenity today, La Russa said. ''Players hear mixed messages -- 'Get yours while you can' -- but it's still a team game, not always about numbers.''
The news media are a peculiar complaint in a one-newspaper town serving readers who love their Cardinals, but the team is always good enough to attract outside scrutiny.
''More outlets, more competition,'' La Russa said. ''Who are the stars: the guys who play the game or the guys who talk about it and write about it?''
La Russa was Ozzie Guillen's first big-league manager. There is mutual respect, but no trace of similarity. Whereas La Russa is as grim as a tax auditor, Guillen is a loose cannon, as ebullient as a schoolboy playing hooky. He's 46 and in his seventh year managing the White Sox. Does he have 20 years in him?
''Why not?'' Guillen said. ''If the money's right and it's the right thing for my family.''
Guillen is the polar opposite of the tight-lipped La Russa in approaching news media relations. I can count on one hand the number of times I've seen La Russa relaxed and enjoying himself, but I've only known him for 24 years. Guillen, on the other hand, is an open book, with no thought left unspoken, sometimes to his detriment. ''No comment'' isn't in his vocabulary.
''Being a manager in Chicago is like the weather in Chicago -- it changes every day,'' Guillen said. ''If we win, they love me. If we lose, not so much. Earlier this year, I said I could manage any team anywhere, and the fans got all mad at me -- what's he saying? I wasn't saying, 'I'm the great Ozzie Guillen.' I was saying I've already been through just about everything a manager can go through.''
So does he have 20 years in him? Guillen laughed at the question. ''How old is Bobby Cox? 69?'' he said. ''I don't think I'll live that long. The way my life is, I know I won't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lou Piniella, in his last season with the Cubs, heading back to the dugout on July 25. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) (A27B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (83%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); GEORGIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



36 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4738 words

HEADLINE: Firing Line

BYLINE: By MATTATHIAS SCHWARTZ. 
Mattathias Schwartz last wrote for the magazine about online trolls.

 BODY:
One June morning last year, Jack Dailey drove from his home in North Carolina's Piedmont country, through verdant, hilly farmland to a rifle range near the town of Ramseur. Eleven men and a woman had mustered there for a weeklong boot camp run by the Appleseed Project, a group Dailey started that is dedicated to teaching every American how to fire a bullet through a man-size target out to 500 yards. So far Appleseed has taught 25,000 people to shoot; 7,000 more will learn by the end of this year. Its instructors teach this skill not for the purpose of hunting or sport. They see marksmanship as fundamental to Americans' ability to defend their liberty, whether against foreigners or the agents of a (hypothetical) tyrannical government. Appleseed frames this activity as being somewhere between a historical re-enactment and a viable last resort. I came to find out how serious they were.
Dailey, Appleseed's founder and rhetorician in chief, is a tall man with silver hair. He wore black sneakers, a red polo shirt tucked into jeans and a red baseball cap. Sixty-six years old, he could have been a grandfather spending a leisurely morning on a public golf course if not for his unyielding expression and his voice, which is well equipped for the stirring up of men. 
In the previous day's lecture, Dailey discussed taxes -- the situation of the American taxpayer, he said, compared unfavorably with the lives of slaves in ancient Egypt. Today he got down to the matter at hand: defense against overweening government. ''Look at the choice those guys made,'' he said, referring to the colonial-era militia. ''I'll post you 65 yards from the road. In a few hours there's gonna be hundreds of redcoats marching down that road. Your liberty depends on you stopping 'em.''
Two lead musket balls were passed around the clubhouse, through the hands of a camouflaged Navy midshipman, two sheriff's deputies, a farm-owning factory worker, a college professor, a pilot, a retiree and a high-school sophomore. Those who shot an ''expert'' score on Dailey's qualification test would become ''riflemen,'' as designated by olive-green patches. For now, most of these novice shooters were referred to as ''cooks.''
''When you fire that first shot, those redcoats are gonna be mad,'' Dailey said. ''They're gonna come at you with those 16-inch bayonets. There'll be three or four of 'em before you load your second shot.'' He paused. Thoughts of bayonets seemed to linger in the silent room. ''Not much percentage in that choice. We know now that they won. But for them? No guarantees.''
The Appleseed Project began with commentaries Dailey writes, under the byline of ''Fred,'' that run beside advertisements for his surplus-rifle-stock business in the magazine Shotgun News. In 2005, he organized his first Appleseed shoots in Wyoming and Texas. The combination of military-style rifle training, star-spangled rhetoric and low cost ($70 for two days; free for women, minors and military personnel) proved catching. Word of the program spread through gun culture and survivalist Web sites. The tax filings of the Revolutionary War Veterans Association, the nonprofit group that oversees Appleseed, show that the group now has $334,000 in cash. The Appleseed Web site lists as many as 100 shoots a month on the outskirts of towns like Eureka, Kan., Pine Bluffs, Wyo., and Coeur D'Alene, Idaho.
At the North Carolina shoot, the cooks came from Georgia, Florida, Illinois and Ohio, bearing .22-caliber Rugers and Marlins outfitted with custom sights -- what Appleseed calls Liberty Training Rifles. Though they were diverse in age and class, their uniformly white skin, down-home talk and traditional values suggested a common attachment to an America that had lost its long-held claim to the cultural center. While Dailey has said Appleseed should be apolitical, the talk at this Appleseed boot camp and at several others I attended across the country over the course of a year contained pieces of a conversation that has unfolded behind the motley carnivals of the Tea Party movement: a serious deliberation on the right about the nature of the American founding and the limits of incivility. Sharron Angle, the Republican nominee for Senate in Nevada who is campaigning against Harry Reid, has spoken of the possibility of ''Second Amendment remedies'' for Congressional action. ''The nation is arming,'' she told The Reno Gazette-Journal in May. ''What are they arming for if it isn't that they are so distrustful of their government? They're afraid they'll have to fight for their liberty in more Second Amendment kinds of ways. That's why I look at this as almost an imperative. If we don't win at the ballot box, what will be the next step?'' Rick Barber, a Republican candidate for Congress in Alabama, has broadcast an ad in which an actor dressed as George Washington declares, ''Gather your armies.''
Are statements like these rhetorical flourishes or calls to arms? Determining whether this revolutionary talk constitutes a threat comes down to finding the fine line between expressing anger and inciting the angry to action, a distinction that is clear as a matter of law but less so in cultural practice. In April, on the 15th anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing, former President Bill Clinton sought to move this cultural line, comparing today's antigovernment sentiment with that of the mid-'90s. Clinton argued that those who demonize the federal government could be courting another tragedy. There is, however, a rejoinder to this from the right. ''The sense in the year 2010 that there's something threatening about civilian marksmanship is a function of 1990s political correctness and guilt by association,'' Nick Dranias, director of the Center for Constitutional Government at the Goldwater Institute, said. ''These groups are trying to take guns out of the shadows and display them proudly, in public, not as a bunch of weirdos crawling around the forest at night.''
Inside the Appleseed Project, the question of where an armed citizenry should draw this line remains open. Later that week, as he sipped a Coke at a nearby McDonald's, Dailey flirted with an answer. ''If you ever have to reach for your guns, you've lost before you started,'' he said, and then doubled back. ''Now, there are probably some narrow, hypothetical exceptions to that. Like if somebody in the government said, 'We're taking over the country.' You might find there'd be a spontaneous. . . . I don't know. I don't know what it would be. And to be perfectly honest with you, I wouldn't want to see it.''
The rst night's campfire sounded less like sedition and more like men telling stories of times they looked death in the eye. Ron Vandiver, the boot camp's head instructor, made death's acquaintance while trying to repair a swaying radio tower on a stormy afternoon. Vandiver is the kind of man that Dailey likes to characterize as a ''regular American,'' words intended as the highest praise. A stout 42-year-old with a gadget-laden belt, he looked like a dad I might see at Home Depot. His eyes watered up when he spoke of an ancestor who fought in the Continental Army. He asked how far back each of us could feel our national history as opposed to just reading about it. ''The war between the states,'' one man said. ''World War II,'' another said. ''That's a shame,'' Vandiver said. ''We're here to extend your historical horizon of empathy.''
The main zones for projecting the past onto the present were the ''redcoats,'' paper targets stapled to wooden poles at 25 meters. Four red silhouettes represented kills at 100, 200, 300 and 400 yards. On the third day the cooks moved to the 500-yard range, where they fired AR-15's, M1As, and M1 Garands. In the middle of the firing line lay David and Darrell Garvey, two brothers with sun-reddened skin and graying beards. Before the housing crash, the Garveys grossed as much as $1 million a year installing floors in vacation homes. Now they were unemployed. They loaded their magazines and pulled the charging handles. ''Ready on the right!'' Vandiver bellowed. ''Ready on the left! All ready on the firing line. . . . Fire!''
Darrell Garvey pressed his eye to the scope, trying to keep a red dot fixed on the blurry figure in the distance. He stilled his breathing and slowly squeezed the trigger. ''Cease fire!'' Vandiver shouted. ''Unload and clear!'' Darrell disarmed his rifle. He walked up the slope to his target and huffed in exasperation. A few shots hadn't even hit the paper.
Darrell turned to Vandiver. ''If, God forbid, the worst happens and this all becomes reality, would you recommend shooting out at 500 or waiting 'til they came closer in?''
''I'm too old and fat to run fast,'' Vandiver answered. ''So I like to give myself as big a head start as possible. On a two-way shooting range, I'm inclined to hit them out at 500.''
''Fred's Plan to Save America,'' an early photocopied manifesto, sets forth a doctrine of deterrence. Shooting is ''training for the Day,'' Dailey wrote. ''The Day that will never come, if enough of us are ready for it.'' Appleseed occasionally attracts those who believe this Day is already here. Dailey calls such fringe beliefs ''the dark side.'' One man at an Appleseed boot camp in Nevada announced his plan to assassinate county officials and ignite a guerrilla war. ''It kinda floored me when he blurted that out,'' Dailey recalls. ''We fight this militia stuff all the time. If there's the slightest truth to what he said, he was a dead man. Which means there's probably no truth at all.'' In Ramseur, Dailey's rousing talk was followed by an introduction to the ''soft war'' fought with ''ballots, not bullets.'' Dailey did not say how the ballots should be cast, but I did meet many senior Appleseed instructors with affinities for The Limbaugh Letter and Tea Party rallies (all of whom nonetheless obeyed the prohibition on partisan discussions during the program itself).
Last fall, a report by the Anti-Defamation League called Appleseed part of a trend in which romanticized notions of armed resistance have ''percolated beyond extremist groups and movements into the mainstream.'' It stopped short of saying Appleseed was itself an extremist group, though Mark Pitcavage, the A.D.L.'s director of investigative research, characterized Appleseed as a potential gateway to militias. ''I'm concerned not in the sense that I think the Appleseed Project is dangerous,'' he told me. ''But it does have a goal of indoctrination.''
But the sociologist James William Gibson, whose book ''Warrior Dreams'' analyzed civilian paramilitary culture since the mid-'70s, says Appleseed and the broader movement around it are unlikely to pose a danger to civil society. ''When a culture is in crisis, the first response is often to go back to the creation myth and start over again,'' he told me. ''The narrative is 'we're going to redo the narrative of the United States by returning to origins, to marksmanship.' People are focusing on the idea that America's problems can be resolved into something that can be shot. It doesn't exactly encourage systematic reflection, but it's a long ways from a civil war.''
The National Rifle Association declined to address the question of where Appleseed fits into the gun culture. ''We are familiar with who they are and what they do,'' a spokesman, Andrew Arulanandam, told me. ''But given that we don't have firsthand experience, we are reticent to say anything beyond that.'' Maynard Reid Jr., the sheriff of Randolph County in North Carolina, which includes the Ramseur range, told me he hadn't heard of the Appleseed Project, though he sometimes rents the range from Dailey for sniper training. ''Jack Dailey is a straightforward guy,'' he told me. ''He don't try to sugarcoat things. He's a good man, as far as I know.''
Appleseed's claim to mainstream legitimacy is bolstered by the group's ties to active-duty members of the military. In March, an instructor who works as a researcher at White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico arranged for Appleseed to conduct five days of training with a brigade from the Second Engineer Battalion. Appleseed also gave free on-base training to a unit from the South Carolina National Guard. I shot at Appleseed boot camps alongside Marines looking to hone their skills before deployment. They came to Appleseed out of uniform, on their own accord. The final two days of the Ramseur boot camp were led by 26-year-old John Hawes, who won a Silver Star in Afghanistan and recently taught marksmanship to soldiers at Fort Jackson. ''The Army's gotten away from the basics,'' he told me.
On one of the final afternoons of boot camp, Gordon Wade, a math professor at Bowling Green State University, was cooking outside his tent. Dailey lumbered up and told Wade he had the makings of a good instructor. Wade said he wasn't sure how many of his academic peers he could bring into the Appleseed fold. ''They might think it's some kind of militia,'' he said.
The men stood in silence. Wade stirred his dinner. ''A man should have a rifle,'' he said. ''Not just a .22. A man should have an AR-15 the same way he should have one good suit. Now, I can't really think of a scenario where I'm going to use my AR-15 as an AR-15. I can't quite articulate it. It sounds like I want to go out fighting zombies'' -- slang for the unprepared -- ''or feds. I don't want to. But if it ever comes to that, God forbid, I want to be able to. But no, no. . . .'' He shook his head. ''That isn't it either. It's just something that I think I should have. Fred, why should I have an AR-15?''
Dailey stood with his arms crossed. He said: ''Because they want to tell us what to do. And we don't want them to tell us what to do.''
Dailey keeps his rifle stocks in an old Coca-Cola warehouse filled to the rafters with the remainders of war -- empty bandoleers, rifle slings, rifle butt plates, rifle brushes, rifle grease. Thousands of wooden stocks stripped of their actions lay in jumbled piles. Dailey fired his first gun at age 6, a .22 aimed at a tree stump. He pulled the trigger; his father held the stock. His first rifle was a Japanese Model 99, a present from his mother for his 19th birthday. The physical fact of the gun led him to consider what action it might have seen. ''The joy of owning these things is tough to explain,'' he says. ''Either you feel it or you don't.'' In the Army R.O.T.C. at North Carolina State University, he learned to fire and strip an M1 Garand. Academic deferments kept him out of Vietnam. In 1969, he took a bus to Washington to march against the war. ''I thought this was a serious thing,'' he says. ''Everyone else was there to party.'' He gave up his activist stirrings for law school, married, graduated and began rehabbing apartment buildings in Chicago. He did well enough to retire at 42, but the experience eroded his idealism. ''A landlord is like a cop or a bartender,'' he says. ''You get to see people as they really are.'' His politics moved toward ''the iron rule of life: everyone wants to be first in line to eat and last in line to die.'' The economic malaise of the late 1970s seemed to confirm this pessimism. He sought comfort in survivalist magazines and stockpiled rifles and canned food. In the mid-1980s, he sold off his properties and moved with his wife back to North Carolina.
Dailey's frustration with the government peaked during the 1990s after the fatal conflicts at Ruby Ridge and Waco. ''Uncle Sam told 76 Americans to come out of their own house, lay down their arms and spread-eagle on the ground,'' he says of Waco. ''Does that sound to you like the sovereignty of the individual?'' At that time, growing restive, he bought more than half a million pounds of rifle stocks at an army-surplus auction. He named his new venture ''Fred's,'' after his dog, and wrote indictments of the Clintons and the ''New World Order'' that reached 94,000 readers. As the radical right gathered steam in the '90s, Dailey's anger fixated on the United Nations, which he saw as a metagovernment bent on covertly undermining American sovereignty. He organized a ''U.N. Day'' shoot at a local gun club, painting targets United Nations blue and firing holes through a steel U.N. helmet. In 2002, Dailey wrote ''Battlin' the U.N.,'' a near-future story of six riflemen who ambush a U.N. convoy rolling through Iowa. Using the accompanying targets, Dailey's readers could practice shooting Boris, the villainous U.N. commander.
Dailey calls all this ''my young and stupid years.'' The Appleseed Project appeals to a broad constituency, one whose edges blur into the N.R.A. at one end and into violent militias like the Hutaree, nine of whose members were indicted in March for conspiracy to murder, at the other end. Notices of Appleseed shoots appear regularly on militia Web sites. Dailey argues that outreach like this attracts radical anger and then moderates it. Many Appleseeders have stories like that of Rod Jackson, a former bouncer whom I met at a shoot in Fresno, Calif. After leaving the Navy, Jackson spent years as a homeless alcoholic but now works by day as a telecommunications technician and by night at a gun range. He has long been preparing for an event he read about online -- Teotwawki, which stands for ''the end of the world as we know it.'' He stored up enough food to feed his family for 30 days and planned to relocate to a remote valley. ''I was going to hide myself in a hole,'' he said. ''Then Fred made this comment that people who build caves are cowards. That stung.''
As his involvement with Appleseed deepened, Jackson found his focus shifting to what he could accomplish within the present system. ''A lot of folks in the gun community talk about stepping up and fighting,'' he said. ''That's skipping over the easy stuff for the hard stuff. The point is that we don't need to fight now. We have another option.'' That option, he said, was contacting elected representatives.
In a cramped room adjoining the warehouse, Dailey monitors the message board and plows through queries from instructors. In a recent post he acknowledged that though he once ''flirted with the dark side,'' there was no place for the rhetoric of deterrence within Appleseed. Statements like ''we'll soon be in a future when the shooting starts,'' he wrote, are not compatible with Appleseed's mission.
During my travels through Appleseed country, I spoke with nearly 100 cooks and riflemen and corresponded with dozens more. None seemed as close to the dark side as James Faire of Monroe, Wash., a man obsessed with reducing the space between readiness and action to the thinnest possible line. After years of practice Faire has whittled that space down to the fraction of a second that it takes him to open the snap holster on his belt, draw and level the Kimber 1911 he carries whenever outside the house, apply pressure to the hair trigger and fire a hollow-point .460-caliber round into his target, all while backpedaling at a 45-degree angle. ''This is called moving off the X,'' he told me. ''By the time you draw on them and say, 'Drop the weapon,' you're already dead.''
Faire has practiced this maneuver thousands of times. He says he came close to using it last year while trying to clear a downed tree from the road leading to his five-acre homestead in Monroe. A sheriff's deputy drove up, lights flashing, with his own ideas about how best to clear the tree. Words were exchanged. The hands of both men drifted down toward their holsters. The way Faire tells it, the peace of Snohomish County momentarily teetered. Then the deputy got back in his car and drove away.
Deputies, Faire says, are criminals operating ''under the color of law.'' He refuses to vote, and the signature on his driver's license appears with the disclaimer ''all rights reserved.'' Some of Faire's views resemble those of the sovereign-citizen movement, extremists who deny the legitimacy of federal law. Faire heard about Appleseed through a Web site he administers called A Well Regulated Militia. Last year he began hosting monthly Appleseed shoots on his land, which appeared on Appleseed's print and online schedules. In 2008, a government informant reportedly observed Andrew Steven Gray shooting an AR-15-style rifle and a pistol on Faire's range. Gray, a 33-year-old convicted felon, is legally barred from owning any firearms. In Gray's storage locker, according to a government complaint, federal agents found a cache of 21 guns, four silencers, two bulletproof vests and 9,000 rounds of ammunition. At his home nearby, says the complaint, were several hundred marijuana plants. Last month Gray was sentenced to four years in prison on gun and drug charges.
The complaint against Gray states that Faire's range is known as the Militia Training Center, which ''routinely holds training for individuals involved with the militia movement.'' When I brought all this up to Dailey, he said Faire was ''wrapping himself in the flag of Appleseed'' to manage his troubles with the county, which closed his range for code violations. I asked Faire whether Dailey had given him any flack. ''Privately, they've been very supportive,'' he said. Though Faire says he obeyed Appleseed's prohibition against talking politics during his shoots, he can still be seen explaining Appleseed's basics on YouTube and accusing President Obama of ''telling people to shut up and not talk.''
Shortly after the arrests in March of nine people thought to be members of the Hutaree militia, I e-mailed Faire and asked whether he had any contact with the group. He replied that he trained with one of the accused Hutaree in 2005, ''although he showed mental instability and further association was discouraged.'' Faire says the charges were ''made up of whole cloth. They had the motive and means and opportunity to resist their arrest but did not. If they were guilty, they would have resisted.''
On an overcast winter day in Monroe, Faire and I sat beside a wood stove in a classroom a few steps away from his house. Targets of kaffiyeh-clad figures armed with rocket-propelled grenades leaned against the wall. I sipped coffee as Faire split wood and unfurled his politics. ''The government has quite literally become tyrannical,'' he said. ''It is fulfilling the principles outlined in 'The Communist Manifesto.' '' His seemed to have a deep urge to see himself as a revolutionary, and it was hard to imagine him at a loss for a framework that would let him do so.
''It's completely out of control,'' he continued, ''from city to state to federal to international law. All predicate their existence on plundering the individual and his rights. The only thing to do now is to organize citizens into a militia to abolish this government. They're the supreme law of the land, the only ones who have the moral and legal authority to do it.'' His voice was calm. It was as if he knew these things were true to both of us.
Faire, who is 50, has a neat mustache and moves with a martial steadiness. He often grips his belt with his right hand during conversation. It holds the holster of his 1911, the muzzle of which peeks out from beneath the waist of his black tactical jacket. The police, he said, often mistake him for an off-duty officer. He gave me a tour of his land, pointing out a ruined minivan used for sniper practice. Somewhere in the surrounding hills he once buried waterproof tubes containing clothes, provisions and six M1 Garands; he later dug them up and sold them to pay for his legal battle with the county over the code violations.
After lunch in the nearby city of Gold Bar, we returned to Monroe for a meeting at a diner with two friends that Faire met while working on the Ron Paul presidential campaign. One talked of establishing a camp where like-minded dissidents might be trained in the use of arms. The man asked for Faire's help. Faire seemed reluctant to commit. The man said, ''I told my wife 30 years ago, 'I'm tired of being an insignificant man living in a broken culture.' '' And yet here he was three decades later, still looking for his first recruit. Did he really want to be dangerous?
When American men talk like this, they are usually giving voice to fantasy. Only in fantasy, after all, are governments overthrown by men trained to do nothing more than shoot long-distance targets in a controlled environment. Some of these men seek out unlikely battlefields, where they can be warriors of the future, warriors of the imagination or reluctant warriors in waiting who are passing their time on the Internet. The power of a gun to take a life is not so much a threat as a talisman connecting these fantasies to the real world.
''When I hold a rifle in my hands, I can feel the choice that I'm making,'' one Appleseeder, a computer programmer from Southern California, told me. ''I know what I can do with this gun, but I also know I'm not going to do that. I have become death. When you have that power and that choice, you know what choice you're going to make. When someone can be death over a quarter mile, that's a tremendous responsibility.''
The exceptions to the rule of the responsible gun owner generate headlines and casualties. The largest threat that Appleseed poses is the possibility that some future gunmen will find their way from some dark-side message board to an Appleseed boot camp. ''There's always going to be someone who thinks the revolution is sooner rather than later,'' Heidi Beirich of the Southern Poverty Law Center says. ''Now they're learning to be snipers. You would hope Appleseed would do some screening.''
When I asked Dailey about this, he said, ''If we recruited 500 people from one of these crazy boards and 499 of them wound up agreeing with us, then what would you say?''
''I would want to know about the one who didn't agree,'' I said. ''You've taught him how to kill with a rifle out to 500 yards.''
''Well, the only precaution for that is not to teach the skills at all. Why even let them have the hardware, in that case?'' He proposed an analogy. ''What if the inmates in the asylum were stabbing each other with knives? Do you give them plastic spoons? Or do you cure the insanity?''
''But part of what you're doing is sharpening the knives.''
''If we can cure the insanity, I think it's a fair trade.''
On my last day in North Carolina, Dailey and I visited a Revolutionary War battlefield an hour's drive from the warehouse. We walked through the wooded site as joggers and couples passed us on the trail. We came to a stop at two cannon replicas beside what had once been colonial lines. Dailey paraphrased what he called ''the gay quote,'' John Adams's sentiment that he would study war, so his sons could study business and agriculture, so their sons could study the arts. ''What a bad plan!'' Dailey said. ''The bad people of the world are still going to be there in three generations. So your grandson better know something about war. You can't just have the third generation sitting around, ballet dancing, playing pianos and talking dilettante talk.''
I asked whether Appleseed was really about the decline of the American man. Dailey vehemently disagreed. To prove me wrong he stopped two young women, introduced himself and began to pitch the program. Wearing sandals and modish sunglasses, they appeared to be the sort of prospective Appleseeders who could buttress the program against the dark side.
''Pop quiz,'' Dailey said. ''When was the American Revolution won?''
''Yorktown is considered the final victory,'' one of the women, Melissa Hogg, said. She majored in history at the University of Virginia, she said, specializing in the Revolutionary War.
''Would you believe what a founder said?'' Dailey asked. ''It was won before the first shot was fired, in the hearts and minds of the American people.''
''Of course,'' Hogg said. ''It's a matter of ideology.''
Dailey seemed to bristle at this, hearing in Hogg's words a disbelief in the specialness of American hearts and minds -- and the suggestion that the motives behind the American Revolution were no better or worse than those of any other. Nevertheless, he gave the women Appleseed's Web address.
As we made our way back to the parking lot, he shook his head. ''You see what we're up against?'' he asked. ''Imagine 300 million of those.''
a call to arms Online video of an Appleseed Project target practice in Iowa at nytimes.com/magazine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TARGET ACQUISITION: Participants at a two-day Appleseed course in Carmi, Ill., last month. (MM38-MM39)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT: Jack Dailey, the Appleseed founder, says he once fl irted with the ''dark side.'' Appleseed now claims it shuns partisan politics, and Dailey works to cleanse the group's Web site of infl ammatory posts. (MM40)
HOLES IN ONE: Appleseed participants fi re .22 rifl es at paper targets 25 meters away and in some courses later move to a 500-yard range with higher-caliber weapons. Those who achieve an ''expert'' score receive a patch. (MM42)
 NATION BUILDING: Some critics worry that the group ''has a goal of indoctrination'' and may be a potential gateway to militias. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GOLF (65%); SHERIFFS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



37 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LATSHAW, JOHN

 BODY:
LATSHAW--John, 88 known as "Big John", a beloved friend, and father, passed away on July 18, 2010, in Naples, Florida. Born in Kansas City on December 10, 1921 to a prominent family in the area since the early 1800's. His family fortune was wiped out in the Depression and still only a boy; John found five jobs while going to school when most men couldn't find one. As a young man, he started out as a cashier for the securities firm of Harris, Upham. One day, he was asked to fill in for a stock trader who was sick. 
Though shy, he quickly showed he was a natural born trader "not a charts and research" trader but a visceral trader whose great instinct would benefit many people, for decades to come. In 1954, Big John was a managing partner of Uhlmann & Latshaw, which then merged with EF Hutton & Co. making him the youngest partner in Hutton's history. He rose to become Executive Vice President, managing director, member of the executive committee and director of E.F. Hutton Inc., the E.F. Hutton Group and E.F. Hutton International and his opinions on the economy have been widely quoted, and he was an oft-requested speaker. When most men retire, he did and became the Chairman of the Board, and Chief Executive Officer of B.C. Christopher & Company. Later, he left the brokerage business to become Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and owner of what he named Latshaw Enterprises, Inc., which included Latshaw Tools, Wescon Products Company, Anderson & Forrester, Coast Wire & Plastic Tech, Inc., and MC Electronics, and held positions at numerous other ventures. Civic duty ran in his family and President Harry Truman, who was friends with his uncle, Judge Latshaw, befriended him as a young man so John was always involved in politics not just as a contributor for local, state and national races but by devoting his time for his friends who ran for state office or working on national campaigns such as: running the Re-elect Nixon campaign for Missouri and Kansas for the landslide victory in 1972. Later, he was National Chairman of Democrats for Ford as he was, in fact, a life-long Democrat, which illustrates his independent spirit and preference for people not adherence to rigid ideas and he was a great supporter on both sides of the aisle. He was appointed His Majesties' Royal Thai Consul to the United States by His Majesty the King of Thailand. Years later, in 1983, at Saranrom Palace, Bangkok, Thailand, Mr. Latshaw was decorated by the Prime Minister of Thailand with the Chaturathabhorn of the Most Exalted Order of the White Elephant Award, the highest award given to a civilian, in honor of their contributions to Thailand. A decade later, he was decorated with The Knight Commander of the Most Noble Order of the Crown of Thailand at the Thai Embassy in Washington, D.C. He was also honored and made a Knight Hospitalier of Malta by the Sovereign Order of St. John of Jerusalem. He received the Citation of Merit for Outstanding Achievement and Meritorious Service in Business and Public Administration in 1957, the first year such an award was given by the University of Missouri. On April 30, 1970, in the U.S. Senate, he was given the Golden Eagle Award for "defending the principles of capital formation, achievements in business and civic action, and full dedication of economic freedom in all its broad humanity". His interests were not limited to finances or politics so with his friend, Lamar Hunt, he helped bring the unknown sport of soccer to the United Sates, forming the North American Soccer League and his team, the Kansas City Spurs, won the first championship. He was part of the introduction of cable television to the United States and as chairman, formed a coalition of civic leaders to create the fifth largest cable operation in the United States, American Cablevision. His exceptional dynamism and talent enabled him to serve on an unusual number of organizations and charitable causes among which: the NASA Advisory Board to the President of the United States, 1983-1986; He was member of the Exec. Board of the Religious Heritage of America Executive Board, Invest-in-America A member of the Society of Fellows- the Nelson Gallery of Art; and the Chairman- Board of Trustees the Conservatory of Music. He was truly "larger than life". When asked how tall he was, he would wryly reply "five foot-twenty". Yet it was not due to his stature but because of the kind person he was that everyone called him "Big John". He was a loyal friend, an inspiration to his co-workers, and was a mentor to many. He was an innovative thinker who refused to quit. He loved life and lived by his motto of "making money and having fun - but not one without the other" and made life, frankly, just more fun. A gentleman with a delightful sense of humor, and an impish grin, he always had a twinkle in his eye. In his teens, he could clear the dance floor but even at the end of his life, he could still make women swoon as they fondly recalled, "he was the best dancer". He was well known throughout the world but always proud to be from Kansas City - a city he loved so much and supported, and his adopted home of Naples, Florida. He was preceded in death by his parents, Edna Parker Latshaw and Ross W. Latshaw; his son, Henry John Latshaw III; his brothers, Parker Latshaw, Robert Latshaw, and sister, Mercedes Anderson. He leaves behind his two daughters: Lady Jaffray, Constance, and Elizabeth Albright Latshaw.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%)

COMPANY: LATSHAW ENTERPRISES INC (84%); WESCON PRODUCTS CO (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (88%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (88%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



38 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LIEB, CYNTHIA JO

 BODY:
LIEB--Cynthia Jo, of Manhattan passed away from cardiac disease in her home on the morning of July 29th. Ms Lieb was born in Newark New Jersey. Her parents were the late Sylvia Sass Lieb and David Paul Lieb. 
Cynthia Lieb received her Bachelors Degree from New York University, a Masters in Education from the University of Pittsburgh, and studied business at Temple University. She went from the classroom to the New Jersey Council on Economic Education. As the latter's Associate Director, she conducted seminars for school personnel and business leaders and raised funds for this private, non-profit organization. She also authored a national curriculum guide for elementary school teachers. After a career in education, Ms Lieb made the transition from an active lay leader to a professional fundraiser. At the time of her death she was President and founder of CL Consulting, a management firm that provided fundraising services to private and non-profit institutions. Ms Lieb raised millions of dollars for organizations through major donor cultivation, corporate sponsorship, and special events. Ms. Lieb through out her life has been active in the Jewish community. She worked as a Regional Director for B'nai Brith International, as Somerset Division Director for the Jewish Federation of Central New Jersey, and for a large number of American Friends of Israeli organizations. Cynthia is survived by her daughter Allyson Samuel, siblings Irwin Lieb, Carin and Paul Feldman, and Hilarie Lieb and Morrie Goldman. The funeral will be held on Sunday August 1st at 11am, at Riverside Funeral Home 333 Amsterdam Ave., New York City, New York, 10023. The internment will follow at Beth Israel Cemetery in Woodbridge. Donations in her memory can be made to Women at Risk, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University Medical Center 601 West 168th Street suite #

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); HEART DISEASE (73%); CURRICULA (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



39 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Money for Guns or Butter

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''House Approves Money for Wars, but Rift Deepens'' (front page, July 28): 
With the war in Afghanistan lasting almost nine years, President Obama risks falling into the ''guns or butter'' trap that undermined President Lyndon B. Johnson during the Vietnam War.
With a stagnant economy characterized by high unemployment and increased housing foreclosures, it is time for President Obama to face the inevitable choice and opt for butter in the form of a major jobs program, rather than the guns of a wasteful war that we can no longer afford.
The midterm elections would be the perfect time to campaign for a new Works Progress Administration that puts Americans to work rebuilding our decaying infrastructure.
Paul M. Wortman East Setauket, N.Y., July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (88%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); ELECTIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



40 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Corona Light Sets Sights on a Younger Party Crowd

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
LIGHT beer commercials usually focus on men, who are its biggest consumers, with machismo, humor and outright goofiness. Corona Light is going after a different group with a campaign for socially active men and women in their 20s.
Its ''Moonlight'' television spot features a large group of friends exuberantly partying on a beach while drinking Corona Light. It is the brand's first stand-alone campaign separate from Corona Extra, which is the top-selling beer import in the United States. Both are imported and distributed by Crown Imports from Mexico, which had previously promoted them together in the same television commercials.
''The campaign takes what consumers know about Corona Extra -- vacation in a bottle -- and energizes and contemporizes it,'' said Jim Sabia, executive vice president of marketing for Crown Imports. 
Corona Light is carving out its own image with the ''It Only Gets Better'' campaign at a time when consumers are buying less beer. For two decades, Americans drank beer regardless of how the economy fared. That included a lot of light beer. Then the economy fell into recession, and all beer sales slipped for the first time in nearly two decades. Sales fell almost 2 percent last year and are down 3.3 percent so far this year, according to the Beer Institute, an industry trade group.
The three biggest light beers have also recorded sluggish sales over the last year. Since June 2009, sales of Miller Lite, the first light beer, have dropped 5.6 percent, while Bud Light and Coors Light are each down about 1 percent, according to figures from the SymphonyIRI Group, a Chicago market research company. It tracks sales at supermarkets, drug stores, gas stations and mass marketers except for Wal-Mart.
Sales of Corona Light fell 1.6 percent for the same period, according to SymphonyIRI. But Crown Imports says total sales so far this year, which include those at bars and restaurants, have risen nearly 1 percent. Last year, Corona Light weathered the recession well with a 4.8 percent increase in sales to retailers, after a 3.6 percent increase in 2008. Those followed double-digit sales increases in the previous eight years. It is the eighth-largest-selling light-beer brand, according to SymphonyIRI.
The only other brands that seem to be hardy are less expensive ones, like Keystone Light from Coors, whose sales rose 16.7 percent in the 12 months through mid-June, according to SymphonyIRI figures. Also, craft brews have attracted some market share, growing by more than 7 percent last year among people who say they want different tastes and flavors, according to the Beer Institute.
''Unlike previous recessions when beer was recession-proof, the higher unemployment rate hit blue-collar workers hard this time,'' said Benjamin Steinman, editor of Beer Marketer's Insights, which tracks industry trends. That contributed to the soft overall beer sales and the relative popularity of some less expensive brews, he said.
Corona Light is focusing on increasing its brand awareness among active young people, said Jose Molla, co-founder and executive creative officer of La Comunidad, the Miami agency that created the brand's 30-second commercial.
''Corona Light is the social brother to Corona Extra,'' Mr. Molla said. ''Its image is more active; it's escaping with your world, not from your world.''
Corona Light's target group would be those who ''if they returned from a vacation would say, 'You can't believe what we did,' not where they have gone,'' Mr. Molla said.
The digital agency Pereira O'Dell also is developing a campaign that will begin this month with a revamp of Corona Light's Facebook page to better connect it to fans, Mr. Sabia of Crown Imports said. The digital effort will also include media banners on other Web sites to drive traffic to the Facebook page.
Next year, Corona Light plans to add a print component and more kiosk, bus and similar advertising outside the home to raise brand awareness, Mr. Sabia said.
The television spot, which will appear on ESPN, NBC, Comedy Central, the sports channel Versus and on Fox Sports during some Major League Baseball games, was filmed in Tayrona Nature Park in Colombia.
Corona beer has usually been associated with beaches, which Mr. Molla described as the brand's ''biggest asset.''
The white beaches at Tayrona are next to a tropical forest, both of which are shown in the commercial. After watching the sunset, the partygoers in the commercial unplug the sound system and pack up as if going home. But then they walk through a jungle and come out on another beach where they resume partying in the moonlight.
The agency auditioned a group of 40 men and women, then flew them to film the commercial at Tayrona. Mr. Molla said the agency deliberately included women because ''we wanted to be inclusive. Women are a big part of having a great party.''
At the site, ''we let the group get to know each other over a few days then we filmed them actually partying,'' he said.
If being flown to a tropical paradise to party sounds too fantastic, Mr. Molla said that filming conditions were actually less than ideal.
''We had some crazy weather, and then we had two alligators and it took hours for the crew to get rid of them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Corona Light television spot was filmed with 40 men and women in Tayrona Nature Park in Colombia. At the site, ''we let the group get to know each other over a few days, then we filmed them actually partying,'' said Jose Molla, whose agency created the ad. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (92%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SALES (87%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); BRANDING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); STATISTICS (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



41 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Minorities Favor Phones in Using Web

BYLINE: By TEDDY WAYNE

 BODY:
Nearly six in 10 Americans are now connected to the Internet wirelessly via a Wi-Fi connection, mobile broadband card or cellphone, compared to about half at this point last year, according to a report from Pew Internet. 
While cellphone ownership has remained stable, the use of every major data application has risen since last year. Thirty-eight percent of cellphone owners now reach the Internet on their phones, compared with 25 percent a year ago.
African-Americans and Latinos continue to own and use advanced features of cellphones more than whites do, with 87 percent of each group owning a cellphone compared with 80 percent for whites. Other cultural forces aside, minorities, lower-income households and younger adults access the Internet at higher rates on mobile devices because they often do not have computers at home.
While 11 percent of adults have made a charitable donation by text message, 19 percent of adults ages 18 to 29 have done so, most likely a reflection of calls for text-message donations to Haiti last year.
''This speaks to the power of mobile technologies to encourage real-world action by a generation that is low on economic resources but still interested in making a difference,'' said Aaron Smith, a research specialist at Pew. TEDDY WAYNE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 51: Percentage of cellphone-owning English-speaking Hispanic adults in the United States who use the phone to browse the Internet.
 33: Percentage of cell-owning white adults in the United States who use the phone to browse the Internet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); CHARITABLE GIVING (67%); CHARITIES (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



42 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Press Goldman Sachs on Ferry Noise

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs, which has certainly borne its share of public anger about the financial crisis, is now drawing heat for another reason: noisy ferryboats.
The boats, which have been running almost constantly across the Hudson River every weekday since Goldman moved into its new headquarters in Battery Park City, have generated frequent complaints from residents of the neighborhood. Goldman does not own the offending boats, but it is paying a ferry company to keep them running 16 hours a day between a floating terminal at the edge of Battery Park City and a dock near Goldman's waterfront office tower in Jersey City.
The dispute about the boat noise has droned on for so long that Battery Park City officials have hinted that they might want to give the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the $50 million floating terminal, the heave-ho, saying the agency is violating the terms of its lease with the high noise levels. 
In a letter he drafted to the Port Authority recently, James E. Cavanaugh, the president of the Battery Park City Authority, demanded an end to the ''unreasonable noise'' emanating from what he called the Goldman service.
Now, having fielded complaints for eight months, Goldman is preparing to solve the problem with its wallet. The firm is having two ferryboats built to its specifications at an estimated cost of more than $5 million, said people with knowledge of the firm's plan who insisted on anonymity because they did not have permission to discuss it. The two boats, which would be more luxurious than the typical commuter ferry on the Hudson, could arrive before the end of the year, these people said.
Goldman intends to substitute the new vessels for the NY Waterway boats that have been plying the short route between its office towers on opposite sides of the river.
Mr. Cavanaugh said he hoped that the matter could be resolved without legal action, but he did not rule out the possibility of litigation. The draft letter he sent to the Port Authority said the ''Goldman service'' had ''unreasonably inconvenienced and annoyed'' some residents of Battery Park City. It alluded to noise readings taken by the city's Department of Environmental Protection in April and May that exceeded the city's legal limit of 10 decibels above the ambient noise level.
Mr. Cavanaugh blamed the problem on the use of older, noisier boats since Goldman increased the frequency of ferry runs -- to every seven or eight minutes -- when its employees began moving into the new tower late last year. The ferries run from 6 a.m. to almost 10 p.m.
The terminal is operated for the Port Authority by a ferry company known as BillyBey, which is named after its owner, William Wachtel, a politically active Manhattan lawyer. Goldman Sachs, in turn, pays BillyBey to run boats between the terminal and the Jersey City dock, known as Paulus Hook. The boats, which fly the NY Waterway commuter-service flag, are open to the public for a fare of $5.50 each way. But community leaders in Battery Park City say that, outside of the morning and evening rush hours, the ferries serve primarily as shuttles for Goldman employees.
Indeed, they run far more frequently than other commuter ferries do: NY Waterway boats run as infrequently as twice an hour in the middle of the day between the train terminal in Hoboken, N.J., and Battery Park City.
Privately, some Goldman officials bridle at the complaints, suggesting that the neighbors were piling criticism on a firm that has already been faulted in the public eye. They declined to discuss the firm's plan to obtain its own boats.
But, in a statement, the firm said it had contracted with BillyBey ''to provide the most efficient form of transportation for our employees to shuttle between our two buildings, while also providing a public service.'' It added that the firm was ''aware there have been some issues raised'' and was working with the ferry operator to explore all options to address them.
A spokesman for BillyBey said the company had switched to newer, quieter boats after the complaints first arose late last year and had not received any complaints since then. But Mr. Cavanaugh said he had seen the older boats -- nicknamed the Italian class because they were named after famous Italian-Americans like Frank Sinatra and Yogi Berra -- operating on the route recently and had heard about other sightings by residents of Battery Park City.
''I saw those Italian-class boats well after Waterways promised not to use them,'' Mr. Cavanaugh said. ''That equipment continues to show up.''
For his part, Mr. Wachtel, the ferry operator, said, ''We're confident in short order all concerns will, in fact, be allayed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Yogi Berra leaving Battery Park City. Goldman Sachs pays to have ferry runs 16 hours a day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (91%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NOISE POLLUTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (73%); CITIES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); LITIGATION (66%); LAWYERS (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



43 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: State-Owned Bidders Fuel China's Land Boom

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Bao Beibei and Chen Xiaoduan contributed research.

 BODY:
WUHU, China -- The Anhui Salt Industry Corporation is a state-owned company that has 11,000 employees, access to government salt mines and a Communist Party boss.
Now it has swaggered into a new line of business: real estate.
The company is developing a complex of luxury high-rises here called Platinum Bay on a parcel it acquired last year by outbidding two other developers to win a local government land auction.
Anhui Salt is hardly alone among big state-owned companies. The China Railway Group is developing residential complexes in Beijing after winning the auction for a huge piece of land there.
Likewise, the China Ordnance Group, a state-led military manufacturer best known for amphibious assault weapons, paid $260 million for Beijing property where it plans to build luxury residences and retail outlets. 
And in one of China's biggest land deals yet, the state-run shipbuilder Sino Ocean paid $1.3 billion last December and March to buy two giant tracts from Beijing's municipal government to develop residential communities.
All around the nation, giant state-owned oil, chemical, military, telecom and highway groups are bidding up prices on sprawling plots of land for big real estate projects unrelated to their core businesses.
''These are the ones that have the money to buy the land,'' says Prof. Deng Yongheng at the National University in Singapore. ''Because in China, it's the government that controls the money supply and the spending.''
By driving up property prices, the state-owned companies, which are ultimately controlled by the national government, are working at cross-purposes with the central government's effort to keep China's real estate boom from becoming a debt-driven speculative bubble -- like the one that devastated Western financial markets when it burst two years ago.
Land records show that 82 percent of land auctions in Beijing this year have been won by big state-owned companies outbidding private developers -- up from 59 percent in 2008.
A recent study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research in Cambridge, Mass., found that land prices in Beijing had jumped by about 750 percent since 2003, and that half of that gain came in the last two years. Housing prices have also skyrocketed, doubling in many cities over the last few years.
The report pegged a big part of the increase to state-owned enterprises that have ''paid 27 percent more than other bidders for an otherwise equivalent piece of land.''
Critics say the central government in Beijing unwittingly propelled the land frenzy by pushing a huge $586 billion economic stimulus package last year and encouraging state-owned banks to lend more aggressively.
And as the prices of new apartments soar -- in Shanghai, for instance, they often exceed $200,000, while the average disposable income is about $4,000 a year -- the trend also threatens to undermine the central government's goal of affordable housing for the rising middle class.
In some cases, local governments -- which earned over $230 billion from land auctions in 2009 -- are also being accused of demolishing old neighborhoods and unfairly compensating residents. In a recent poll conducted by China Youth Daily, a state-run newspaper, more than 80 percent of the respondents said local governments were a ''major driving force'' behind the skyrocketing property prices.
All of this is happening to the chagrin of private developers that dominated China's property market for more than a decade but are now feeling squeezed out of a game that favors developers with state-backed financing.
''It's a little like a son who borrows money from his mother,'' says Yang Shaofeng, head of the Conworld Real Estate Agency in Beijing.
Last year, state banks made a record $1.4 trillion in loans, nearly twice as much as the year before. Analysts say they believe much of that money was diverted into the property market through off-balance-sheet maneuvers, leading to the record land bids and soaring property prices. That belief is adding to concerns that some of China's biggest state-owned banks may be sitting on enormous unreported debt.
Beijing is now struggling to rein in credit without slowing the nation's roaring economy. And regulators are trying to stop state banks from using clever maneuvers to secretly lend money to overly aggressive state-owned developers.
Beijing also wants to restrain state companies that have little or no expertise in real estate. Last March, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission -- one of the national government's most powerful bodies -- ordered 78 state-owned companies to shed their real estate divisions.
But analysts say the government will have difficulty stopping hundreds of state-owned companies and their various subsidiaries from participating in what has become one of the country's hottest industries. Experts say that more than 90 of the 125 state-owned companies directly under Beijing's control still have property divisions. And local and provincial governments control many additional developers.
The national government is grappling with a complex set of incentives that drive state-run companies to speculate in the property market with the aid of local governments.
Rosealea Yao, an analyst at Dragonomics, a research consultant in Beijing, says a growing number of municipalities have formed local investment vehicles that borrow heavily from state-owned banks to pay to relocate residents and build infrastructure around big plots of land they intend to sell at auction. (In China, local governments cannot directly borrow from banks or issue bonds for real estate development.)
Those off-balance-sheet debts are essentially bets on rising land prices, she says, which could become big liabilities if land prices were to decline sharply or the auction market were to dry up.
''This is why local governments are so enthusiastic about infrastructure,'' Ms. Yao says. ''They borrow to build something that raises the value of the land they want to sell at auction.''
Here in Wuhu, a sleepy industrial town about 70 miles west of Nanjing, Anhui Salt is breaking ground on its high-rise project in the center of town -- next to a hotel operated by Anhui Conch Holdings.
The land was put up for auction in May 2009, and there were just three bidders -- another of which was also a state-owned company. Anhui Salt, which also boasts of operating a steel trading arm, a financing vehicle and even two Honda dealerships, says it is eager to expand beyond industrial products and table salt.
''Platinum Bay is Anhui Salt Industry's first luxury project and targets the very rich, the very elite class of Wuhu,'' said Su Chuanbo, marketing manager.
Asked why Anhui Salt wants to be a developer, Mr. Su said the central government had encouraged state companies to be more profitable, and that real estate was incredibly lucrative.
And so the government, he added, is actually behind its push into real estate.
''Even though many central government-controlled state companies are banned from the real estate sector,'' Mr. Su said, ''local state-owned companies like Anhui Salt can still develop its projects within reasonable bounds. The situation is the same all over China.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As state-owned industries venture into real estate, they work at cross purposes with policy makers. (A1)
 The sales office, left, under construction for the Platinum Bay high-rises, developed by the Anhui Salt Industry Corporation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACKSON LOWEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A5) CHART: State Dominates Beijing Land Auctions: In the last three years, state-owned enterprises in Beijing have greatly increased their share of land purchases. (Note: 2010 is year-to-date) (A5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOME PRICES (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); SHIPBUILDING (68%); HOUSING BUBBLE (67%); CITIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); MONEY SUPPLY (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); RETAILERS (53%)

COMPANY: CHINA RAILWAY GROUP LTD (90%)

TICKER: 0390 (HKSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (90%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (91%); ANHUI, CHINA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



44 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Auto Innovators Get a Shop

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
10:17 a.m. Updated Added proposed new location for TechShop Detroit.
Geeks, engineers and do-it-yourselfers in Detroit will soon have a chance to take the future of the American automotive industry into their own hands. 
TechShop, a chain of do-it-yourself clubs, plans to open a new facility in Detroit next year that will have an emphasis on advancing automotive innovation. Ford has signed on to aid the project by drumming up local investment for the new project and creating a type of showroom for displaying wares created by Average Joes and Janes.
Executives behind the collaboration between TechShop and Ford have billed it as a way to breath new life into the city's economy.
''There have been thousands of engineers who do not have positions today, but who have lots of creative talent,'' said Bill Coughlin, the chief executive at Ford Global Technologies, who oversees the licensing of Ford's intellectual property. ''TechShop, I think, provides an opportunity to turn that talent into reality.''
In an article earlier this year, I detailed TechShop's approach, which centers on giving people access to industrial-strength tools so that they can, well, make things. The company buys about $500,000 worth of gear - including mills, lathes, laser cutters, 3-D printers - and provides access to that equipment for a monthly membership fee.
A number of start-ups have grown out of the TechShop location in Silicon Valley, and the hope is that something similar might occur in Detroit.
''Locating in Detroit with an automotive-focused innovation center is an obvious and clear opportunity,'' said Mark Hatch, the chief executive of TechShop.
There's more talk and hope than firm details behind the new TechShop operation at this point. TechShop tends to seek loans and investments from locals when building new shops and is just beginning the process of finding that money.
Still, the TechShop and Ford representatives said they had identified a potential location for the facility and that it could open in the first half of next year.
''The facility is more than twice the size of a normal TechShop,'' Mr. Coughlin said. ''It has the ability to be a technology showroom, to have a video studio for making YouTube videos so that people can get the message out, and rooms to make deals.''
The shop will also include tools for developing hardware and software.
While Ford is helping to make the TechShop Detroit happen, it will not receive special access to products that people hope to sell.
''I don't want the Ford logo on the building unless there are logos from other automakers and suppliers,'' Mr. Coughlin said. ''I want an open environment. But, frankly, this is in Ford's backyard, so it will be a little easier for us to catch the wave, if you will.''
Mr. Coughlin declined to say if Ford employees would invest directly in the new TechShop.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (76%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (76%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



45 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Defining Prosperity Down

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
I'm starting to have a sick feeling about prospects for American workers -- but not, or not entirely, for the reasons you might think.
Yes, growth is slowing, and the odds are that unemployment will rise, not fall, in the months ahead. That's bad. But what's worse is the growing evidence that our governing elite just doesn't care -- that a once-unthinkable level of economic distress is in the process of becoming the new normal.
And I worry that those in power, rather than taking responsibility for job creation, will soon declare that high unemployment is ''structural,'' a permanent part of the economic landscape -- and that by condemning large numbers of Americans to long-term joblessness, they'll turn that excuse into dismal reality. 
Not long ago, anyone predicting that one in six American workers would soon be unemployed or underemployed, and that the average unemployed worker would have been jobless for 35 weeks, would have been dismissed as outlandishly pessimistic -- in part because if anything like that happened, policy makers would surely be pulling out all the stops on behalf of job creation.
But now it has happened, and what do we see?
First, we see Congress sitting on its hands, with Republicans and conservative Democrats refusing to spend anything to create jobs, and unwilling even to mitigate the suffering of the jobless.
We're told that we can't afford to help the unemployed -- that we must get budget deficits down immediately or the ''bond vigilantes'' will send U.S. borrowing costs sky-high. Some of us have tried to point out that those bond vigilantes are, as far as anyone can tell, figments of the deficit hawks' imagination -- far from fleeing U.S. debt, investors have been buying it eagerly, driving interest rates to historic lows. But the fearmongers are unmoved: fighting deficits, they insist, must take priority over everything else -- everything else, that is, except tax cuts for the rich, which must be extended, no matter how much red ink they create.
The point is that a large part of Congress -- large enough to block any action on jobs -- cares a lot about taxes on the richest 1 percent of the population, but very little about the plight of Americans who can't find work.
Well, if Congress won't act, what about the Federal Reserve? The Fed, after all, is supposed to pursue two goals: full employment and price stability, usually defined in practice as an inflation rate of about 2 percent. Since unemployment is very high and inflation well below target, you might expect the Fed to be taking aggressive action to boost the economy. But it isn't.
It's true that the Fed has already pushed one pedal to the metal: short-term interest rates, its usual policy tool, are near zero. Still, Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman, has assured us that he has other options, like holding more mortgage-backed securities and promising to keep short-term rates low. And a large body of research suggests that the Fed could boost the economy by committing to an inflation target higher than 2 percent.
But the Fed hasn't done any of these things. Instead, some officials are defining success down.
For example, last week Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, argued that the Fed bears no responsibility for the economy's weakness, which he attributed to business uncertainty about future regulations -- a view that's popular in conservative circles, but completely at odds with all the actual evidence. In effect, he responded to the Fed's failure to achieve one of its two main goals by taking down the goalpost.
He then moved the other goalpost, defining the Fed's aim not as roughly 2 percent inflation, but rather as that of ''keeping inflation extremely low and stable.''
In short, it's all good. And I predict -- having seen this movie before, in Japan -- that if and when prices start falling, when below-target inflation becomes deflation, some Fed officials will explain that that's O.K., too.
What lies down this path? Here's what I consider all too likely: Two years from now unemployment will still be extremely high, quite possibly higher than it is now. But instead of taking responsibility for fixing the situation, politicians and Fed officials alike will declare that high unemployment is structural, beyond their control. And as I said, over time these excuses may turn into a self-fulfilling prophecy, as the long-term unemployed lose their skills and their connections with the work force, and become unemployable.
I'd like to imagine that public outrage will prevent this outcome. But while Americans are indeed angry, their anger is unfocused. And so I worry that our governing elite, which just isn't all that into the unemployed, will allow the jobs slump to go on and on and on.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INFLATION (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); TAX LAW (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); INTEREST RATES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



46 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Emirates to Cut Data Services Of BlackBerry

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER and ROBERT F. WORTH; Reporting was contributed by Ian Austen, Landon Thomas Jr., Mona El-Naggar, Joseph Berger, Miguel Helft and Kareem Fahim.

 BODY:
The United Arab Emirates, citing security concerns, said Sunday that it would suspend BlackBerry mobile services like e-mail and text messaging beginning in October, the latest high-stakes clash between governments and communications providers over the flow of digital information.
The Emirates have been in a long dispute with Research In Motion, the smartphone's producer, over the BlackBerry's highly encrypted data system, which offers security to users but makes it more difficult for governments to monitor communications.
The decision could have significant implications for BlackBerry use in the Persian Gulf region, where Saudi Arabia has been closely studying the issue and may follow suit. Other countries, including Kuwait and Bahrain, have also raised concerns.
Disputes involving privacy and censorship have flared more frequently between governments and communications providers as the Internet connects people worldwide. In July, China and Google settled a standoff over access to information. YouTube has been periodically blocked in countries like Turkey and Pakistan, and Pakistan temporarily blocked Facebook in May because of what it called offensive, anti-Islamic content. 
Officials of Research In Motion, which is based in Waterloo, Ontario, and the company's outside public relations firm did not respond Sunday to telephone calls and e-mail.
The monitoring of information is a particularly thorny issue for autocratic regimes in the Persian Gulf worried that the Internet might be used for antigovernment purposes -- a concern heightened by the passionate online response in Iran to the 2009 presidential election that helped energize the opposition and led to weeks of unrest.
The United Arab Emirates, in particular, were alarmed by the killing in January of a Palestinian operative in a Dubai hotel, possibly by a hit team from the Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency. The episode infuriated the government, which wants to encourage tourism and business, and heightened its desire for increased electronic surveillance and security.
''The U.A.E. has never been a place that offered much in the way of electronic privacy,'' said Jim Krane, author of ''City of Gold,'' a history of Dubai. ''The government makes no secret that it monitors electronic communication, including text messages, phone calls and e-mail. The revelation that secure BlackBerry data is frustratingly out of the government's reach only confirms this.''
Other smartphones, like the AppleiPhone, are not tied to one e-mail service. In general, that means e-mail to and from the devices mostly travels over the open Internet and can be relatively easily monitored.
But the BlackBerry uses highly encrypted data that is received by wireless carriers' towers and is immediately routed through a closed, global network operated by the company. To enforce the ban, the carriers will stop forwarding that data.
Because of this level of security, the United States government allows many military and law enforcement employees to send confidential messages by BlackBerry, but it also makes surveillance correspondingly difficult.
As a result, R.I.M. officials have clashed with officials elsewhere in recent years.
In 2008, security agencies in India suggested that BlackBerry service might be shut down there unless R.I.M. installed servers in that country to allow them to intercept messages. The company refused, but sent representatives to meet with the Indian government. Indian regulators, while expressing reservations, have said they have no plans to restrict the service.
Analysts and telecommunications experts also believe that security concerns delayed the arrival of BlackBerry service in China. It is unclear what actions the company took, if any, to alleviate those worries.
There were conflicting reports Sunday about whether Saudi Arabia had also decided to ban the BlackBerry services. Some news agencies cited an interview with a Saudi Telecom official on the Al Arabiya television network that confirmed the decision, but in other Al Arabiya news reports company officials denied the service would be blocked
The Saudi authorities released no official statement, and an adviser to the Saudi government, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said no decision had been made as far as he knew. But one prominent Saudi economist, Ihsan Ali Bu-Hulaiga, said ''it seems to me a number of other countries in the region will follow the lead of the U.A.E.'' for the same security-related reasons.
In the emirates, concerns are also fueled by the fact that native Emiratis are a minority there, and the government regards electronic surveillance as an important tool against would-be terrorists, swindlers and other potential troublemakers drawn to the country's relatively unfettered environment.
The United Arab Emirates is a federation of seven emirates in the southeastern corner of the Arabian Peninsula bordering Saudi Arabia. Among the seven states are Abu Dhabi and Dubai, both economic centers that encourage international trade and discourage financing of radical Islamic movements. Because of this, Mr. Krane suggested, the security concerns are not unfounded.
''The U.A.E. is an open country, a key travel and business hub, with one of the world's largest airports and airlines,'' he said. ''It welcomes just about anyone to visit, and even to settle and work. Nationals of many countries don't even need entry visas. In this environment, the government probably feels that electronic eavesdropping and surveillance are key to maintaining internal security.''
In a statement Sunday, a government body in the Emirates, the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority, said officials were prepared to block BlackBerry data service beginning Oct. 11 because it was the only service in the Emirates that exported mobile data to servers outside its borders. It will not affect phone service.
The agency also said that it had been trying since 2007 to strike a deal under which it would assume authority over BlackBerry services within that country.
''In their current form, certain BlackBerry services allow users to act without any legal accountability, causing judicial, social and national security concerns for the U.A.E.,'' the agency said.
While the company has disclosed little information about the centers that manage BlackBerry services, it is widely believed that data from the Middle East is handled by a company operations center in Slough, England.
There are about 500,000 BlackBerry users in the United Arab Emirates, a large number of them in the business hub of Dubai.
''R.I.M. has had three years to address these security concerns,'' said a U.A.E. government official, who declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak publicly.
The dispute between the United Arab Emirates and R.I.M. took an unusual turn about a year ago when the company warned users that software described as a BlackBerry upgrade by an Emirates carrier, Etisalat, was actually spyware.
''Independent sources have concluded that Etisalat's 'Registration' software application is not actually designed to improve performance of a BlackBerry Handheld, but rather to send received messages back to a central server,'' R.I.M. warned customers in an online posting that included directions on removing the software.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: United Arab Emirates officials regard surveillance as an important tool in keeping the region safe for business and tourism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAMRAN JEBREILI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); DATA SECURITY (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); INTERNET PRIVACY (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (76%); CENSORSHIP (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (71%); RELIGION (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (91%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); GOOGLE INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (91%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (91%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (55%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (98%); PAKISTAN (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



47 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Date for Buildup at Border Comes, But the National Guard Does Not

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO -- No boots were seen tromping in the desert sand on Sunday. No commanders were heard barking out orders to their troops. The National Guard, which officials had announced would turn out en masse along the United States-Mexico border over the weekend for sentry duty, was nowhere to be found.
It turns out it will take weeks longer to select, screen and train the 1,200 National Guard troops the Obama administration had said would be deployed on Aug. 1 along the border from California to Texas. 
Administration officials explained that the announced date was always a starting point, the beginning of the process of deployment and not the day camouflaged soldiers would begin amassing at the boundary line with their automatic weapons, high-powered binoculars and filled-up canteens. As a sign that things have gotten under way, Jack Harrison, a National Guard spokesman, said Sunday night that about 140 troops have begun working in recent weeks on the ''command and control'' of the mission.
''Full deployment will take place over succeeding weeks,'' Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, said in an interview. ''It won't be 100 percent showing up all of a sudden.''
Once they arrive in the weeks and months to come, the troops will do what the thousands deployed during the Bush administration did: aid Border Patrol agents but not carry out direct law enforcement functions, Gen. Craig McKinley, chief of the National Guard Bureau at the Pentagon, said at a recent briefing. Instead of capturing migrants and traffickers, the troops will serve as lookouts, assess intelligence and carry out other support roles, General McKinley said. They will join several hundred National Guard troops already there helping to stop drug trafficking.
Having the additional boots at the border -- divvied up in Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas -- will free up the federal law enforcement officials who are focused on drugs and illegal immigration, Ms. Napolitano said. The yearlong supplemental staffing will give the administration time to hire additional civilian personnel, she said.
Of course, there is a political dimension to the deployment, which comes as the Obama administration faces fierce criticism, particularly in Arizona, for not doing enough to seal off the borders from illegal immigrants and drug smugglers.
''It's for show,'' said Tony Payan, a political science professor at the University of Texas at El Paso who studies the border. ''It's the kind of climate we live in today, using war lingo, military jargon, using the National Guard, it seems like we're being more effective, being serious. It sounds impressive, but it's just 1,200 people.''
Doris Meissner, a fellow at the Migration Policy Institute and an immigration commissioner in the Clinton administration, said the number of border guards, no matter how high or which agency they belonged to, would never truly solve the problem of illegal immigration.
''During my time, 10,000 Border Patrol agents was considered the magic number,'' she said. ''Then it became 20,000. If it grew to 25,000 or 35,000 or even 50,000, that would be marginally better, no doubt. But illegal immigration is an economic issue. It's a market phenomenon. Legislation that deals with the problem as a whole is the only real solution.''
Jay Ahern, former commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, said he was not surprised that Aug. 1 came without any visible troops.
''You don't just turn a switch and have this happen overnight,'' said Mr. Ahern, who was involved in Operation Jump Start, President George W. Bush's deployment of thousands of National Guard troops to the border from 2006 to 2008. ''And these are not going to be people visible at our points of entry. They will be in remote areas and in support roles.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A National Guard vehicle atop a mountain at the Arizona border near Sonoyta, Mexico. Hundreds more troops are expected along the border in Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLERMO ARIAS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (87%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (86%); SMUGGLING (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (91%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (91%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (91%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



48 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON MESSAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: On Television, Playing Down An Image Of Wealth

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
The Republican running for governor in Connecticut went to Andover, Harvard and Harvard Business School, founded a private equity firm and settled in Greenwich. He owns a private plane, six cars and three motorcycles, as well as a 100-foot yacht registered in the Marshall Islands.
His likely Democratic rival (Exeter, Harvard, Yale M.B.A.) has a net worth of more than $90 million, and owns six cars and a 16-room home in Greenwich.
This is not information, of course, that viewers glean from television commercials.
There, the Republican, Thomas C. Foley, is the guy sliding into the booth at a diner, wearing blue jeans and a neighborly look. The Democrat, Ned Lamont, is the unassuming father who reminisces about his early struggles starting a business. 
Much has been said this election season about the number of rich candidates tapping their fortunes to run for office. But with the campaign taking place during a still-difficult economy, the wealth of the candidates in Connecticut creates a bit of a challenge for their advertising teams: How do you boil more than 55 years of privilege and astounding affluence into 30 seconds of homespun appeal?
Their approaches are strikingly similar: The candidates' wardrobes are often casual Friday, if not weekend getaway. Their biographies stress their self-starter business skills. And they boast of being independent outsiders who can not only relate to the common man, but also be the common man, at least on television.
''I like making things better for people,'' Mr. Foley, 58, says, as a color photograph of him as a boy with his five siblings appears in one advertisement. ''My dad used to joke that I was always tinkering, busy trying to fix things.''
Mr. Lamont, 56, with aw-shucks earnestness worthy of Ned Flanders of ''The Simpsons,'' tells a gathering in one spot, ''I'm going to make darn sure that we get this state growing again.''
Though both men face primary opponents, their wealth has allowed them to dominate on television. They started running their commercials months ago, while their opponents were still trying to raise money to qualify for public financing, and together Mr. Foley and Mr. Lamont have spent $2.7 million, or more than double what the three other main candidates have spent combined.
The visual cues that ad makers use to make candidates appear more ordinary are familiar by now. Mr. Foley appears in a barn jacket that echoes that the one worn by Scott Brown, the new Republican senator from Massachusetts. The sleeves of Mr. Lamont's blue button down shirt are rolled up to the elbows.
''There's a little bit of 'I feel your pain' in a Bill Clinton kind of way everywhere around the country now, and what you're seeing is the Connecticut version of that,'' said Evan Tracey, president of the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political advertising. ''They've got to find those ways to connect, and a lot of them are nonverbal ways, like sitting down in a diner or driving in a car. The test is when voters watch this, do they believe that this guy would really roll into the diner and have an egg salad, or is he going to get his smoothie on the way to the gym?''
Much could change in the days remaining before the Aug. 10 primaries, and sparring is now breaking out daily over debates (Mr. Lamont had ducked them until recently) and checkered pasts (Mr. Foley once spent a night in jail in the Hamptons).
Yet even when projecting a humble image in those ads, Mr. Foley and Mr. Lamont do not run away from their business successes. But they tailor it to the times: stressing their experience in creating jobs and skill at revitalizing struggling groups (read: Hartford). Mr. Foley stands in an abandoned warehouse in one spot, wearing a V-neck sweater, and says: ''I know how to run a business. Let's get to work.''
In a three-minute biographical video, a few of his former employees at TB Woods, a manufacturer of clutches, brakes and power transmission equipment, vouch for Mr. Foley's willingness to get his hands dirty.
''Tom stepped up to the plate, basically took his business suit off, and he spent the best part of a day cleaning castings, grinding, chipping, and at the end of the day, he looked just like a regular worker -- his face was dark with dust,'' one worker says.
Mr. Foley is relying on the Stevens and Schriefer Group for his commercials; it worked on the Bush-Cheney campaigns of 2000 and 2004, Mitt Romney's presidential run in 2008 and Chris Christie's successful race for New Jersey governor last year. Mr. Lamont is using the Campaign Group, which has helped Edward G. Rendell in the race for Pennsylvania governor, Bill Richardson in his run to be the governor of New Mexico and, last year, William C. Thompson Jr. in a bid for mayor of New York City.
''Foley is a complete newcomer to the Connecticut political scene, so he's really been able to define his image through his campaign ads,'' said Douglas Schwartz, director of the Quinnipiac University Poll.
He said that Mr. Foley began broadcasting commercials last fall, when he considered running against Senator Christopher J. Dodd. Voters ''know him better than they know Fedele, who has been lieutenant governor.''
That would be Lt. Gov. Michael C. Fedele, a Republican who has been the second-in-command to Gov. M. Jodi Rell. She is not running for re-election, and, in a blow to Mr. Fedele, she has not endorsed anyone. In Quinnipiac's most recent poll, 73 percent of Connecticut voters said they did not know enough about him.
Mr. Fedele's advertising has been limited, but in it, he describes his working-class immigrant roots (he was born in Italy) and his information technology company, stating that ''starting from nothing, I built a business and created hundreds of jobs.''
He also, in a recent ad, tries to turn Mr. Foley's business record against him, featuring residents of a Georgia factory town who said that Mr. Foley bankrupted their business while he made off with $20 million in management fees.
A third Republican, Oz Griebel, a businessman from the Hartford area, has not advertised widely.
Mr. Foley is the chairman of the NTC Group, which restructures struggling companies. A major Republican donor and a friend of former President George W. Bush, he served briefly as a top official with the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, and more recently as ambassador to Ireland. (He spent $500,000 of his own money sprucing up the ambassador's mansion when he was there.) Reporters have also noted that Mr. Foley's yacht is named Odalisque, a Turkish term for a female slave in a harem.
Mr. Lamont, best known for his unsuccessful bid to oust Senator Joseph I. Lieberman in 2006, is a great-grandson of the chief executive for the financier J.P. Morgan and started his own telecommunications company. His wife is a successful venture capitalist. Mr. Lamont's message to small-business owners is simple: I've been there.
''I remember starting up my own business,'' he says in one commercial. ''We borrowed some money, rented a small cubicle. It wasn't easy, but we made it.''
His opponent, Dannel P. Malloy, is a former mayor of Stamford and a former Brooklyn prosecutor. Mr. Malloy, who has been gaining in recent polls, uses the street he grew up on in Stamford as a backdrop in three commercials, and he emphasizes that he has the ''experience money can't buy.''
''As governor, I'll never forget where I came from,'' he says.
On Message: This is the first in a series of articles examining advertising in this year's political campaigns.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Images from campaign ads for Ned Lamont, above, and Thomas C. Foley, candidates for Connecticut governor. (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); SCOTT BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MARSHALL ISLANDS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



49 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Initiative On Exports Hits Hurdles

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When President Obama announced at his State of the Union address in January a goal of doubling American exports over five years, business owners applauded, envisioning a flood of goods moving into new markets in the Asian and Latin American countries that are leading the global recovery. The chief executives of Boeing and Xerox agreed to lead an advisory council to support the effort, called the National Export Initiative.
But now, as officials complete a plan of action due in September, the hurdles before Mr. Obama's ambitious goal are getting clear. 
Opening access to foreign markets, especially the fast-growing developing countries in Asia and South America, remains a politically touchy matter that will require the cooperation of Congress. A free-trade agreement with South Korea that was negotiated under President George W. Bush and that has been endorsed by Mr. Obama still awaits Congressional ratification, as do agreements with Colombia and Panama, and important issues remain unresolved in each.
Even more critical, by some measures, is the rising strength of the dollar, which increases the cost of American goods and makes them less competitive. The dollar has risen in value relative to the euro and the pound and remains overvalued, in the view of many economists, against China's renminbi.
''When the dollar does get excessively valued relative to other currencies, exports don't grow, period,'' said Franklin J. Vargo, a former Commerce Department official who is the vice president for international economic affairs of the National Association of Manufacturers.
And in hundreds of pages of comments filed last week with the Commerce Department, industries as varied as winemaking and long-haul trucking identified dozens of smaller hurdles -- including regulatory barriers and a shortage of customs officers -- that they claim hinder trade. The comments, invited by the department, offer a glimpse into why the country's large trade deficit persists even as consumers reduce spending.
On July 7, Mr. Obama said the country was ''on track'' to meeting his goal; exports in the first four months of 2010 grew almost 17 percent over the same period last year. But while exports are growing, imports are growing even faster: in May, the trade deficit in goods and services was $42.3 billion, up from $24.9 billion a year earlier.
In a detailed critique of United States trade policy, the National Association of Manufacturers, which supports Mr. Obama's goal, called for negotiating new free-trade agreements, ending outdated export controls, promoting American goods and services abroad, expanding export financing and reducing nontariff barriers to trade, among other things.
But those issues are overshadowed by currency concerns, according to Mr. Vargo. ''You can't devalue your way into export increases, but you have to be very careful that the dollar doesn't get overvalued,'' he said.
Of particular concern is the value of the renminbi, which China has for years held down as a way to support its export-reliant economy. Despite pressure from an increasingly restive Congress, the Obama administration, like the Bush administration before it, has declined to declare China a currency manipulator, a step that could lead to retaliatory measures. In June, China agreed to allow the gradual appreciation of the renminbi, but so far it has risen only about 1 percent against the dollar.
Lael Brainard, the Treasury under secretary for international affairs, noted that the Chinese currency appreciated by about 20 percent from 2005 to 2008, though at an uneven pace. ''We do believe that the renminbi remains undervalued,'' she said last week in an event at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
Treasury officials have preferred persuasion over retaliation, hoping to convince China that a higher-valued renminbi is in its own interests as it seeks to increase domestic demand.
Meanwhile, world trade talks continue to be bogged down as American negotiators try to deal with emerging economies.
''We have asked some of our key trading partners to come back to the negotiating table and provide some market access, to make sure it is one the Congress can get excited about,'' Ms. Brainard said last week of the long-stalled Doha round, while acknowledging that the administration was ''not quite there yet.''
Along with currency and market access, an array of less obvious themes emerged from the submissions to the Commerce Department, including infrastructure shortcomings and what some industries saw as heavy-handed regulation. The comments illustrate the breadth of issues that might need to be addressed to achieve the administration's goal.
Long-haul truckers are up in arms over a decision by United States Customs and Border Protection to require importers to estimate the quantity and value of the chemical residue that clings to the sides and bottoms of reusable tank trailers coming back into the country after being unloaded in Canada or Mexico.
Since 1994, trucking companies had been able to classify these containers as empty. The new rule could mean costly delays and a loss of tank-washing business (which counts as a service export) to Canadian companies, the American Trucking Association said.
The Port of Vancouver, Wash., which handles Subaru imports and shipments of wheat, copper concentrate, steel scrap and malted barley, urged American investment in freight-rail projects. ''A one-day improvement in transit time in the U.S. could result in $28.9 billion a year in increased international trade,'' port officials wrote.
Complaints related to travel were common. Spending by foreign tourists in the United States is counted as exports, and slowness in processing visas for foreigners was of particular concern to the travel industry. The State Department has only four consulates in Brazil and five each in China and India, the Airports Council International-North America said, and in Beijing in July, the wait time for a required visa interview was 100 days. It also complained about a shortage of customs officers to clear passengers and cargo at airports.
Levi Strauss, the apparel manufacturer, urged officials to make it easier for exporters to find accurate data on tariff rates. And James B. Clawson, a representative of the California wine industry, wrote, ''The single most restrictive barrier to wine exports remains the high import tariffs of most of the major markets buying U.S. wine today.''
At the Commerce Department, which is coordinating the report on the export initiative, officials said they were undaunted by the feedback.
''We weren't looking for pats on the back,'' said Travis Sullivan, director of policy and strategic planning for the department.
He added, ''You can look at them as critiques; we take them as opportunities for progress.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (73%); DEVALUATION (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); WINERIES (64%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); PANAMA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



50 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
AS AMERICANS LEAVE IRAQ,
Fog of War Persists
As American forces exit Iraq, with only 50,000 to remain by the end of this month and all to be withdrawn in a year, the American military command is accentuating the positive. But it is also an axiom of conflict that competing stories emerge about the same events. The ''fog of war'' still shrouds the country more than seven years after the American-led invasion. News Analysis. PAGE A7
FREE TO SPEAK, NOT TO MOVE
Since Mexico City does not regulate protests, demonstrators are free to block traffic whenever they please. In the first three months of this year, there were 740 demonstrations in the streets of Mexico City, an average of eight and a half a day. The idea that the best way to get the authorities' attention is to stop traffic has become embedded in Mexico's political culture. PAGE A8 
SHUTDOWNS ON SPACE STATION
One of two critical cooling systems aboard the International Space Station malfunctioned, setting off alarms and triggering an extensive reduction in power. Mission managers gave tentative approval to plans for a complex two-spacewalk repair job late this week. PAGE A5
National
SCHOOL DISTRICT THAT TAKES
The Isolation Out of Autism
Families with children with autism and developmental disabilities move from all over the country to send their children to schools in Madison, Wisc., in part because its school board has been so adamant about not segregating autistic students. Michael Winerip, On Education. PAGE A9
PLANNING CLINTON WEDDING
The shroud of secrecy surrounding Chelsea Clinton's wedding was due in part to the wedding planner, Bryan Rafanelli, and not the Clintons. The Boston-based event planner said that he typically requires confidentiality agreements with his vendors. PAGE A10
AN IDEOLOGICAL BATTLE
Senators return to the Capitol this week for more close-quarters combat over the economy, before heading home on summer recess to continue the battle long-distance. But the economic fight is only partly about the economy. It is also about dogma -- dogma that sometimes keeps both parties from the goals they claim to be fighting for. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A11
DEPLOYING BORDER TROOPS
It will take weeks longer to select, screen and train the 1,200 National Guard troops the Obama administration said would be deployed on Aug. 1 along the border from California to Texas. PAGE A9
New York
THE HOTTEST JULY ON RECORD?
Very Close, But Not Quite
The average temperature in New York City in July 2010 stood at a blistering 81.5 degrees through July 30, ahead of the all-time record-holder, July 1999. But by the time Saturday ended, the average temperature for July 31 was recorded at 76 degrees, low enough to drag down the monthly average to 81.3, missing the record by a mere tenth of a degree. PAGE A13
Metropolitan Diary A13
Business
USING FACEBOOK TO CATCH
Scofflaw Drivers in India
Officials in New Delhi, a city famous for its snarled traffic and infamous for its unruly drivers, has enlisted an unexpected weapon in the fight against dangerous driving: Facebook. The traffic police started a Facebook page two months ago, and almost immediately residents became digital informants, posting photos of their fellow drivers violating traffic laws. PAGE B2
THE ZEAL OF THE CONVERT
Two years ago, Buzz Bissinger, a specialist in long-form magazine journalism and the author of ''Friday Night Lights,'' considered by some to be the best sports book ever written, took a stand against digital culture. But now, Mr. Bissinger has pivoted from scold to zealot, and is a prolific and high-profile tweeter. PAGE B1
CNN'S PRIME TIME PLAN
For years, whenever television fortune-tellers forecast Larry King's eventual replacement, Katie Couric's name was the first to be mentioned. But an unexpected slide in Mr. King's ratings on CNN changed the timetable for finding his replacement. Now, Piers Morgan, a judge on ''America's Got Talent,'' is on the verge of obtaining the job, which comes with a mandate to revive CNN's fortunes in prime time. PAGE B1
LINKING NEWS AND FLACKS
NewsBasis, a new start-up, wants to create an online marketplace to match businesses and organizations that want to broadcast their messages with journalists working on topical articles. It also has a tool for sources to footnote articles across the Web with their points of view. PAGE b4
BUILDING ON AN ANIMATED HIT
Mac Guff Ligne, a French animation and visual effects studio, is hoping to build on the success of ''Despicable Me,'' a 3-D animated film that has been the surprise hit of the summer at the box office, generating almost $190 million in sales in about four weeks. PAGE B7
Arts
REIMAGINING 'IDOL'
After Simon Cowell
''American Idol'' is holding auditions for its 10th season, to be broadcast next year, but those lining up to sing for producers have no idea what the show they're trying out for will actually look like. The show will have different judges, but Jon Caramanica writes that there are other ways to tweak the popular, but aging show. PAGE C1
A LABYRINTH OF SENSUALITY
Anthony Tommasini writes that Wolfgang Rihm's latest operatic work, ''Dionysos,'' based on Nietzsche's ''Dionysos-Dithyramben,'' is a musically compelling, sometimes ravishing allegorical exploration of man's quest to embrace the Dionysian sensuality of life. PAGE C1
Sports
AGENCY ROLE COULD LIMIT
Basketball Broker's Power
William Wesley, a ubiquitous basketball power broker, has strong ties to everyone from N.B.A. owners to LeBron James to Michael Gilchrist, who is among the country's top-rated high school players. But the broker's new role with the Creative Artists Agency, which is making a push to get into college sports, has some wondering if his ability to engage with top recruits will become more limited. PAGE D1
EXPECTING FAVRE'S RETURN
Brett Favre's indecisiveness has been an off-season staple for years: Will he retire or will he come back for another season? But as the Minnesota Vikings hold training camp without him, the team's players and brass say they expect him to return for his 20th N.F.L. season. Page D1
RAYS GAIN ON YANKEES
The Yankees were defeated, 3-0, by the Tampa Bay Rays, a victory that puts the Rays one game behind the first-place Yankees in the American League East standings. PAGE D1
METS LOSE BIG TO ARIZONA
The Mets made a weekend out of celebrating four members of the best team in franchise history, the 1986 squad that won a club-record 108 games and one of the more dramatic World Series in baseball history. But when the festivities ended, this year's team was walloped, 14-1, by the last-place Arizona Diamondbacks. PAGE D5
Obituaries
REV. LAWRENCE BOADT, 67
A Roman Catholic priest, publisher and Bible scholar, he used his study of the Old Testament as a vehicle for promoting understanding between Christians and Jews. PAGE A16
WILLEM BREUKER, 65
A Dutch composer, multireedist and bandleader, his jump-cut style and theatrical panache made him a contrarian hero of European jazz. PAGE A16
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A17
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A17
Online
ROOM FOR DEBATE A look at why it has taken China so long to ban the shaming of criminal suspects.
nytimes.com/roomfordebate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AUTISM (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); CAUCUSES (73%); FAMILY (73%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (72%); SPACE STATIONS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); SCHOOL BOARDS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (65%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); MEXICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



51 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data this week includes the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index for July and construction spending for June (Monday); personal income and spending for June, pending home sales for June and factory orders for June (Tuesday); ADP employment for July and the I.S.M. service index for July (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and unemployment for July and consumer credit for June (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Humana (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, Clorox, Dow Chemical, D. R. Horton, MasterCard, Molson Coors Brewing, NYSE Euronext, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, CBS, Electronic Arts and Whole Foods Market (Tuesday); AOL, Hartford Financial, Qwest Communications, Sirius XM Radio, Time Warner, Allstate, the News Corporation and Prudential Financial (Wednesday); Beazer Homes, Cablevision, Cigna, DirecTV, Viacom and Kraft Foods (Thursday); and the Washington Post Company (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATESBen S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will speak about challenges for the economy and state governments at the Southern Legislative Conference in Charleston, S.C. (Monday). Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will talk about the next steps for financial reform at the New York University Stern School of Business (Monday).
The automakers will report their sales for July (Tuesday).
The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement will start a series of fact-finding forums in New Orleans to collect information and views about deepwater drilling safety reforms, well containment and oil spill response (Wednesday).
Retailers will report same-store sales for July (Thursday).
Station Casinos will auction several of its casinos after reaching a deal with unsecured creditors (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); CHEMICALS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); SATELLITE RADIO (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); OIL SPILLS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (51%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); NEWS CORP (83%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (71%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (71%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (70%); D R HORTON INC (58%); PFIZER INC (57%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (57%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (57%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (57%); CENTURYLINK INC (56%); CIGNA CORP (56%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (56%); VIACOM INC (56%); ALLSTATE CORP (56%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); STATION CASINOS INC (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); TAP (NYSE) (71%); ADM (NYSE) (71%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (70%); DHI (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); WFM (NASDAQ) (57%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); EA (NASDAQ) (57%); DOW (SWX) (57%); DOW (NYSE) (57%); DOW (LSE) (57%); 4850 (TSE) (57%); NYX (PAR) (57%); NYX (NYSE) (57%); CTL (NYSE) (56%); CI (NYSE) (56%); PRU (NYSE) (56%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%); ALL (NYSE) (56%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (71%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (71%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (71%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (71%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (71%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (71%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (71%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (71%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (71%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (71%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (70%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (75%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010



52 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1946 words

HEADLINE: WHAT IS LEFT BEHIND; A Benchmark of Progress, Electrical Grid Fails Iraqis

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Reporting was contributed by Stephen Farrell, Khalid D. Ali and Zaid Thaker from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Mosul, Baquba and Basra.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Ikbal Ali, a bureaucrat in a beaded head scarf, accompanied by a phalanx of police officers, quickly found what she was out looking for in the summer swelter: electricity thieves. Six black cables stretched from a power pole to a row of auto-repair shops, siphoning what few hours of power Iraq's straining system provides.
''Take them all down,'' Ms. Ali ordered, sending a worker up in a crane's bucket to disentangle the connections. A shop owner, Haitham Farhan, responded mockingly, using the words now uttered across Iraq as a curse, ''Maku kahraba'' -- ''There is no electricity.''
From the beginning of the war more than seven years ago, the state of electricity has been one of the most closely watched benchmarks of Iraq's progress, and of the American effort to transform a dictatorship into a democracy. 
And yet, as the American combat mission -- Operation Iraqi Freedom, in the Pentagon's argot -- officially ends this month, Iraq's government still struggles to provide one of the most basic services.
Ms. Ali's campaign against electricity theft -- a belated bandage on a broken body -- makes starkly clear the mixed legacy that America leaves behind as Iraq begins to truly govern itself, for better and worse.
Iraq now has elections, a functioning, if imperfect, army and an oil industry on the cusp of a potential boom. Yet Baghdad, the capital, had five hours of electricity a day in July.
The chronic power shortages are the result of myriad factors, including war, drought and corruption, but ultimately they reflect a dysfunctional government that remains deadlocked and unresponsive to popular will. That has generated disillusionment and dissent, including protests this summer that, while violent in two cases, were a different measure of Iraq's new freedoms.
''Democracy didn't bring us anything,'' Mr. Farhan said in his newly darkened shop. Then he corrected himself. ''Democracy brought us a can of Coke and a beer.''
The overall legacy of the American invasion today, like that of the war itself, remains a matter of dispute, colored by ideology, politics and faith in democracy's ultimate ability to take root in the heart of the Arab world.
Even Iraqis suspicious of American motives hoped that the overthrow of Saddam Hussein would bring modern, competent governance. Still, the streets are littered with trash, drinking water is polluted, hospitals are bleak and often unsafe, and buildings bombed by the Americans in 2003 or by insurgents since remain ruined shells.
What is clear is that Iraqis' expectations of a reliable supply of electricity and other services, like their expectations of democracy itself, have exceeded what either Americans or the country's quarrelling politicians have so far been able to meet.
''Iraqi politicians are killing our optimism,'' Hassan Shihab said, complaining about blackouts after Friday Prayer at a mosque in Baquba, northwest of Baghdad. Dictatorship, he added, ''was more merciful.''
Iraq's electricity problem is, of course, older than its still-uncertain embrace of a new form of government. Before Mr. Hussein's invasion of Kuwait 20 years ago this month, Iraq had the capacity to produce 9,295 megawatts of power. By 2003, after American bombings and years of international sanctions, it was half that.
The shortages since have hobbled economic development and disrupted almost every aspect of daily life. They have transformed cities. Rumbling generators outside homes and other buildings -- previously nonexistent -- and thickets of wires as dense as a jungle canopy have become as much a part of Iraq's cityscapes as blast walls and checkpoints.
Most of the generators are privately operated, and the cost -- roughly $7 per ampere -- has for ordinary Iraqis become too exorbitant to power anything more than a light and a television.
''I've never seen good electricity from the day I was born,'' said Abbas Riyadh, 22, a barber in Sadr City, the impoverished Shiite neighborhood in Baghdad. As he spoke, as if on cue, the lights went out.
Billions of Dollars Later
The United States has spent $5 billion on electrical projects alone, nearly 10 percent of the $53 billion it has devoted to rebuilding Iraq, second only to what it has spent on rebuilding Iraq's security forces. It has had some effect, but there have also been inefficiency and corruption, as there have been in projects to rebuild schools, water and sewerage systems, roads and ports.
The special inspector general for Iraqi reconstruction, Stuart W. Bowen Jr., said that one quarter of 54 reconstruction projects his office had investigated -- including those providing electricity and other basic services -- had not been completed or carried on by the Iraqis they were built for.
The United States is now winding such projects down, leaving some unfinished and others, already in disrepair, in the hands of national and provincial governments that so far seem unwilling or unable to maintain and operate them adequately.
''We brought the framework of electoral democracy,'' Mr. Bowen said, ''but its future efficacy is very much in doubt.''
Iraq does generate more electricity than it did in 2003, but nowhere near enough to match rising demand, driven higher by the proliferation of consumer goods, especially air-conditioners. Democracy, the easing of the country's isolation and improving security have, paradoxically, created new conditions and demands that the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki has been unable to address.
Iraq's electrical grid remains a patchwork of old power plants and new, supplemented with makeshift and inadequate solutions. Iraq now imports 700 megawatts from Iran. When temperatures soared this summer, it paid for two electricity-generating ships from Turkey to dock near Basra, one of the most badly affected cities, at a cost of hundreds of thousands of dollars.
The country's transmission and distribution networks are aging and mismanaged by a bureaucracy as sclerotic as it was in Mr. Hussein's era.
The entire system is hampered by poor planning and by interagency rivalries that, for example, delay fuel to power plants; by a lack of conservation; by continuing terrorist attacks on electrical towers, including four in the last half of July in Baghdad, Anbar and Diyala Provinces.
Corruption -- which the special inspector general's office called ''Iraq's 'second insurgency' '' in a report released on Friday -- is pervasive. Mr. Farhan, the shop owner, said his landlord had bribed Ministry of Electricity workers to install the pirated cables three years ago. ''He couldn't just connect the cables himself,'' he noted.
Fight Against Pilfering
The government campaign against pilfering -- which officials said resulted in hundreds of miles of cables removed, with barely discernible effect -- followed the public protests, including one in Basra in June that ended with the police opening fire, killing two.
At first Mr. Maliki denounced the protests as the work of foreign agents, an ominous echo of the conspiracy-minded remarks of Saddam Hussein, while the Interior Ministry announced strict limits on public protests.
Then Mr. Maliki, fighting for a second term as prime minister, moved to quell the populist outrage. He fired his electricity minister and ordered cuts in power to the privileged enclaves of ministers and politicians, a practice that began under Mr. Hussein and continues. Few Iraqis believe those cuts have been meaningful or will be lasting.
In Mosul, the troubled northern city, the consequence of the campaign against piracy turned violent in June. When government workers cut an illegal connection from the Nineveh Textile Factory to a restive neighborhood called Mahmoun, insurgents retaliated by shelling the plant.
''I knew it was not safe for me, but I did it anyway,'' said a ministry engineer, referring to ordering the cutting of the cables.
''After that, the electricity went back to normal, as it was before, but the reply came quickly when the factory was targeted with mortars. There were many victims of the success,'' said the engineer, who would give his name only as Abdullah, Father of Mohammed. Twelve people at the factory were wounded.
Mr. Maliki and his ministers have pleaded for patience, which is clearly running out, especially as the newly elected Parliament remains deadlocked over choosing a new prime minister and government nearly five months after the election.
The new acting electricity minister, Hussain al-Shahristani, said at an investment conference in July that Iraq would add 5,000 megawatts by 2012 but acknowledged that that would not keep up with demand.
''The problem will persist because there is no magic wand or miracle that can solve it,'' he said.
He then urged Iraqis to turn off all but one air-conditioner in their homes -- and presumably to huddle with their families in that room.
Bureaucratic Hurdles
The government's inaction compounds the problem. In 2008, Mr. Maliki announced a deal to buy 56 gas turbine generators from General Electric and 16 from Siemens for a total cost of $5 billion. More than two years later the purchase remains stalled because of political quarrels over financing and delays in negotiating contracts to install them.
These types of generators have their own problems. At Baghdad South, a complex of three power plants, two General Electric generators installed in 2005 by the United States operate at about half their 125-megawatt capacity.
The plant director, Abdul Karim Mohammed, said the generators were designed to operate at an optimal efficiency using natural gas, not the fuel oil that the Iraqis use, and when the temperature is 60 degrees. It was 120 the day he spoke.
Already he has been ordered to defer recommended maintenance to keep the machines running at full tilt, with the consequence of wearing them out faster. Needed parts are prohibited by Iraq's customs rules. Mr. Mohammed has spent a year trying to break through the bureaucracy. ''It's not a technical issue,'' he said. ''It's a political issue.''
American diplomats and military commanders respond defensively when pressed on why, after all the American investments and expertise, Iraq still struggles to provide electricity.
They cite challenges that would overwhelm any government trying to fix a country emerging from dictatorship and war: violence, climate, aging infrastructure and soaring demand, which they call a sign of a burgeoning consumer society.
''Are people frustrated by this?'' the American ambassador, Christopher R. Hill, asked. ''Yes, I think they are.''
He added: ''I think that the frustrations were evident on the street, but the solutions are ones that involve timely decision-making. I'm not going to criticize the government on whether it moved fast enough to build more power stations, but I think Iraqi voters are going to look at that.''
The question today is whether voters can force their leaders to act -- and whether only moderately functional services will get worse as America continues to disengage. Not all Iraqis are persuaded. Even some senior officials express doubts about the country's governance, about Iraq's readiness to function: either on practical matters like electricity or more abstract ones like democracy.
''This is the fault of the Americans,'' the deputy minister of electricity, Ra'ad al-Haras, said. ''They put in place a big, wide-open democracy after the regime. They went from zero democracy to 100 percent. Democracy has to be step by step. You see the result.''
What Is Left Behind: The first of three articles examining America's legacy in Iraq. The subsequent articles will examine the price paid by both Iraqis and Americans, in lost and altered lives.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thickets of power lines are common in Baghdad as people rig up generators to supplement inadequate electricity supplies. (A1)
Widad, 60, fanned her 6-month-old grandson last month in their Baghdad home after the electricity went out. The capital got five hours of power a day in July.
Generators, sold at a Baghdad shop, are a costly way to make up for intermittent power, especially when it is 120 degrees. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) GRAPHICS: Energy Gap: All of the power plants in Iraq are producing far less energy than their capacity, despite billions of dollars spent on reconstructing the electrical grid. (Sources: State Department
 Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); IRAQ WAR (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (72%); WAR ON TERROR (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



53 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Warming Is Real. Now What?

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
THE CLIMATE WAR
True Believers, Power Brokers and the Fight to Save the Earth
By Eric Pooley
481 pages. Hyperion. $27.99.
THE WEATHER OF THE FUTURE
Heat Waves, Extreme Storms and Other Scenes From a Climate-Changed Planet
By Heidi Cullen
329 pages. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $25.99.
Even as Democrats abandoned efforts late last month to advance a major climate change bill through the Senate, books about global warming continue to pour forth. Two of the more interesting ones do not waste time rearguing debates over the science (in 2007 a United Nations panel, synthesizing the work of hundreds of climatologists from around the world, called evidence for global warming ''unequivocal''), but instead take as a starting point the clear and present dangers posed by the greenhouse gases produced by burning fossil fuels.
''The Climate War,'' by Eric Pooley -- deputy editor of Bloomberg BusinessWeek and former managing editor of Fortune -- looks at the hotly contested politics of global warming, especially as it's been played out in Washington over the last three years. ''The Weather of the Future,'' by Heidi Cullen -- a senior research scientist with Climate Central, a nonprofit research organization -- offers a scorching vision of what life might be like in the warmer world that is already on its way. 
Although ''Weather of the Future'' sounds like an exercise in speculation, Ms. Cullen grounds her harrowing predictions -- extrapolations, really -- in ''the best available science'' derived from an array of climate models, environmental data and interviews with scientists. And her forecasts actually turn out to be an armature for discussing the fallout of climate change (from rising sea levels to more extreme weather) in an accessible, tactile fashion and for examining existing liabilities in various regions and cities, like overstretched infrastructure and dwindling water supplies.
In what will come as little surprise to Americans suffering through this summer's persistent heat waves, Ms. Cullen notes that the average annual temperature in the United States ''has risen more than two degrees F during the past 50 years, and the temperature will continue to rise, depending on the amount of heat-trapping gases we emit globally.''
By 2050, with midrange emissions, she writes, ''a day so hot that it is currently experienced only once every 20 years would occur every three years over much of the continental United States''; and by the end the century, ''such a day would occur every other year, or more often.''
Because a warmer climate means more evaporation of water from land and oceans, Ms. Cullen observes, it also results ''in longer and more severe droughts in some areas and more flooding in others.'' And because a warmer world means the continued melting of glaciers and polar ice, it leads to rising sea levels -- which threaten places prone to flooding, as well as places vulnerable to sea surges during hurricanes.
In the case of New York City, hotter summers lead to a heavier reliance on air-conditioning, which leads to more stress on an already strained electrical grid. Also at risk, says Rae Zimmerman, a member of the New York City Panel on Climate Change, is much of the city's critical infrastructure, which sits less than 10 feet above sea level, including the New York entrance to the Holland Tunnel (at 9.5 feet above sea level) and La Guardia Airport (at 6.8 feet above sea level).
As for the Central Valley in California, which is the hub of that state's water supply system, providing water for two out of three Californians, it is vulnerable to the catastrophic failure of its canals and levees, whether from an earthquake or the slowly rising sea level -- much the way New Orleans was vulnerable to flooding during Hurricane Katrina. Ms. Cullen adds that global warming is also likely to affect the snowpack in the Sierra Nevada, which is the ''true basis of California's water system,'' just as it is likely to lead to ''hotter wildfires that are harder to control.''
In many parts of the world climate change will have serious geopolitical fallout as well. Droughts and floods in Bangladesh, Ms. Cullen says, could result in more and more climate refugees, even as a growing scarcity of groundwater in northern India could further exacerbate tensions between India and Pakistan. National security experts, she writes, see climate change as a ''threat multiplier,'' leading to increased tensions between rich and poor nations, and amplifying regional political disputes over access to water and food in times of drought (as has happened, for instance, in Darfur).
Although there were hopes that last year's United Nations talks in Copenhagen would lead to an important accord on climate change, the final document to come out of the summit was a statement of intention, not a binding pledge, to begin taking action on global warming. In the view of many scientists and politicians, the disappointing outcome stemmed partly from the failure of the United States Senate to pass legislation intended to cap American emissions before the summit -- which, in turn, meant that China would not agree to an absolute reduction of its emissions.
In ''The Climate War,'' which ends with the Copenhagen summit, Mr. Pooley gives us a detailed, if sometimes longwinded, account of the political battle to get Congress to take legislative action on global warming. It is a depressing account of gridlock in Washington, of efforts by conservative lobbyists to deny the phenomenon altogether (and when that hasn't worked, to delay any sort of action), and of infighting within the environmental left over whether to compromise and try to get the support of centrists and corporate interests, or whether to take a hard-line, ideological stand. It is a story about how the economic meltdown of 2008 and the ensuing recession -- and concerns about job losses and other short-term costs of establishing a clean-energy economy -- affected the debate over global warming and the political arithmetic that members of Congress and the Obama administration have been doing over the viability of climate change legislation.
Mr. Pooley tells this story by focusing on a couple of key people: most notably, former Vice President Al Gore, the public face of the antiglobal warming crusade; Fred Krupp, executive director of the Environmental Defense Fund, who ''often forged partnerships with industry and pushed for agreements that the left couldn't stand''; and Mr. Krupp's sometime ally Jim Rogers, chief executive of Duke Energy, who joined other business executives and the leaders of several national environmental groups to form the United States Climate Action Partnership, an organization calling for an economywide solution to global warming and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
In these pages Mr. Pooley deftly explicates the political maneuvering surrounding the controversial concept of ''cap and trade'' (a mandatory and declining limit on carbon emissions, combined with a system of tradable emissions permits) and does a suspenseful job of recounting the walk-up to last year's extremely close vote in the House (219 to 212), passing a climate change bill. Because Senate Democrats decided only two weeks ago (long after this book went to press) that they did not have the votes to pass a broad energy bill including a cap on greenhouse gas emissions, Mr. Pooley's book ends on an unfinished, cliffhanger note.
''In their least guarded moments,'' Mr. Pooley writes, ''the climate campaigners would tell you what they had always known in their bones: their work was necessary but not sufficient. Climate action was going to happen sooner or later, but they couldn't make it happen. It might be inevitable -- the true believers still believed it was -- but it would only become real when enough people demanded it and shouted down the lobbyists and the professional deniers and demanded it again. Alexis de Tocqueville long ago said that in the United States, events 'can move from the impossible to the inevitable without ever stopping at the probable.' Was that still true? How bad did things need to get before the moment came? Would the prospect of a clean-energy economy, and the jobs it would bring, mobilize enough people to make a difference? Or would some sort of monstrous, galvanic weather event -- epic heat and drought, Katrina on steroids -- be needed to shake America fully awake?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (C1)
Eric Pooley (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL O'NEILL)
 Heidi Cullen (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); WEATHER (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); DROUGHT (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); MODELING & SIMULATION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); OCEANS (62%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Climate War, The (Book); Weather of the Future, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



54 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Earnings and Overseas News Lead Broad Rally

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After a robust July, the stock market got off to an energetic start for August on Monday, surging nearly 2 percent on another round of strong corporate results and upbeat economic news from China and Europe.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 100 points within minutes and never looked back, eventually closing up 208.44, or 2 percent, at 10,674.38, its highest level since mid-May.
The initial impetus came from economic data in China that suggested that manufacturing there may have cooled enough to enable the government to ease off policies aimed at keeping the economy from overheating. Strong quarterly profits from two big European banks gave another boost. And better than expected manufacturing data in the United States and a strong showing by energy and materials stocks propelled the broad market higher still. 
At the close, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 24.26 points, or 2.2 percent, at 1,125.86. The Nasdaq composite index rose 40.66 points, or 1.8 percent, to 2,295.36. Energy and materials stocks rose almost 3 percent.
William Smith, president of Smith Asset Management, said people seemed to be relieved that China's economy may not be headed for a hard landing and that Europe's economy seemed to be stabilizing. ''Most people are trading on the engine of the world right now, and the euro zone is doing better than anticipated,'' he said.
Uri Landesman, president of the Platinum Partners hedge fund, said investors had been mildly concerned over lackluster economic data, particularly in the United States. ''There are concerns about global growth, and China is a crucial component of that,'' he said.
Two big European banks, HSBC and BNP Paribas, reported higher earnings on Monday because of declines in provisions for bad loans, setting the pace for other European banks poised to report their earnings this week.
While concerns over Europe have influenced investor sentiment recently, the banks' earnings, the results of the European banking stress tests and the purchasing managers' index for the 16 countries that use the euro appeared to ease some worry that a global credit crisis was imminent.
The purchasing managers' index was revised higher, to 56.7 points in July, from the previous estimate of 56.5.
''Concerns about Europe were one of the elements that led to the big downdraft in the markets back in May and June,'' said Brian Gendreau, market strategist for Financial Network. ''Those concerns seem to be easing.''
In Europe, the FTSE 100 in London was up 139.09 points, or 2.7 percent, while the DAX in Frankfurt rose 144.16 points, or 2.3 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris was 108.89 points, or 3 percent, higher. Stocks in Asia also rose.
Quincy Krosby, a market strategist for Prudential Financial, said the domestic economic picture would continue to provide impetus for investors, starting with Monday's manufacturing index and leading up to the monthly unemployment report at the end of the week.
The Institute for Supply Management said its manufacturing index fell in July to 55.5, compared with 56.2 in June. While the July figure was the slowest to emerge this year, it was above economists' expectations of about 54.
''That is very important because it is going to give us an indication of whether the economy is slowing,'' Ms. Krosby said. ''The leading economic indicators have been demonstrating consistently slower growth, but it is not in contraction.''
In addition, construction spending unexpectedly rose 0.1 percent in June, a government report showed on Monday. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast a drop of 0.5 percent in June.
The price of crude oil rose $2.39, to settle at $81.34 a barrel in New York trading on the strength of the manufacturing news.
Brian M. Youngberg, energy analyst for Edward Jones, said that oil had reached its three-month high because of increased optimism over the economy and the weakened dollar.
''It is back up above 80, at levels we have not really seen since May,'' Mr. Youngberg said. ''The sector is up pretty well across the board.''
Materials and energy stocks in the United States benefited from the surge. Almost all of the market sectors rose about 2 percent or more. All of the Dow components rose.
Western Gas Partners rose 67 cents, to $24.63, and Anadarko Petroleum was up $4.11, at $53.27, after an announcement that Western would acquire pipeline assets in northeastern Colorado from Anadarko in a deal worth $498 million.
The El Paso Corporation rose 49 cents, to $12.81, after it announced that its Ruby Pipeline Project had received federal approval to begin construction. Monday's market carried over gains from last week, which ended the best month for the major indexes so far this year, with the Dow up 7.08 percent and the S.& P. and the Nasdaq up 6.9 percent for July.
That was despite signs of a slowing economy, as the nation's gross domestic product slipped to an annual growth rate of 2.4 percent in the second quarter, less than analysts had expected.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 16/32, to 104 17/32. The yield rose to 2.96 percent, from 2.91 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. The Dow closed at its highest level since mid-May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); EURO (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (50%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); PRU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



55 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to the Recovery

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY F. GEITHNER. 
Timothy F. Geithner is the secretary of the Treasury.

 BODY:
Washington
THE devastation wrought by the great recession is still all too real for millions of Americans who lost their jobs, businesses and homes. The scars of the crisis are fresh, and every new economic report brings another wave of anxiety. That uncertainty is understandable, but a review of recent data on the American economy shows that we are on a path back to growth.
The recession that began in late 2007 was extraordinarily severe, but the actions we took at its height to stimulate the economy helped arrest the freefall, preventing an even deeper collapse and putting the economy on the road to recovery. 
From the start, President Obama made clear that recovery from a crisis of this magnitude would not come quickly and that the recovery would not follow a straight line. We saw that this past spring, when the European fiscal crisis posed a serious challenge to the markets and to business confidence, dampening investment and the rate of growth here.
While the economy has a long way to go before reaching its full potential, last week's data on economic growth show that large parts of the private sector continue to strengthen. Business investment and consumption -- the two keys to private demand -- are getting stronger, better than last year and better than last quarter. Uncertainty is still inhibiting investment, but business capital spending increased at a solid annual rate of about 17 percent.
Together, private consumption and fixed investment contributed about 3.25 percent to growth. Even the surge in imports, which lowered the rate of increase of G.D.P., actually reflects healthy and growing American demand.
As the economists Ken Rogoff and Carmen Reinhart have written, recoveries that follow financial crises are typically a hard climb. That is reality. The process of repair means economic growth will come slower than we would like. But despite these challenges, there is good news to report:
Exports are booming because American companies are very competitive and lead the world in many high-tech industries.
Private job growth has returned -- not as fast as we would like, but at an earlier stage of this recovery than in the last two recoveries. Manufacturing has generated 136,000 new jobs in the past six months.
Businesses have repaired their balance sheets and are now in a strong financial position to reinvest and grow.
American families are saving more, paying down their debt and borrowing more responsibly. This has been a necessary adjustment because the borrow-and-spend path we were on wasn't sustainable.
The auto industry is coming back, and the Big Three -- Chrysler, Ford and General Motors -- are now leaner, generating profits despite lower annual sales.
Major banks, forced by the stress tests to raise capital and open their books, are stronger and more competitive. Now, as businesses expand again, our banks are better positioned to finance growth.
The government's investment in banks has already earned more than $20 billion in profits for taxpayers, and the TARP program will be out of business earlier than expected -- and costing nearly a quarter of a trillion dollars less than projected last year.
We all understand and appreciate that these signs of strength in parts of the economy are cold comfort to those Americans still looking for work and to those industries, like construction, hit hardest by the crisis. But these economic measures, nonetheless, do represent an encouraging turnaround from the frightening future we faced just 18 months ago.
The new data show that this recession was even deeper than previously estimated. The plunge in economic activity started an entire year before President Obama took office and was accelerating at the end of 2008, when G.D.P. fell at an annual rate of roughly 7 percent.
Panicked by the collapse in demand and financing and fearing a prolonged slump, the private sector cut payrolls and investment savagely. The rate of job loss worsened with time: by early last year, 750,000 jobs vanished every month. The economic collapse drove tax revenue down, pushing the annual deficit up to $1.3 trillion by last January.
The economic rescue package that President Obama put in place was essential to turning the economy around. The combined effect of government actions taken over the past two years -- the stimulus package, the stress tests and recapitalization of the banks, the restructuring of the American car industry and the many steps taken by the Federal Reserve -- were extremely effective in stopping the freefall and restarting the economy.
According to a report released last week by Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi, advisers to President Bill Clinton and Senator John McCain, respectively, the combined actions since the fall of 2007 of the Federal Reserve, the White House and Congress helped save 8.5 million jobs and increased gross domestic product by 6.5 percent relative to what would have happened had we done nothing. The study showed that government action delivered a powerful bang for the buck, and that the bank rescue on its own will turn a profit for taxpayers.
We have a long way to go to address the fiscal trauma and damage across the country, and we will need to monitor the ups and downs in the economy month by month. The share of workers who have been unemployed for six months or more is at its highest level since 1948, when the data was first recorded, and we must do more to ensure that they have the skills they need to re-enter the 21st-century economy. Small businesses are still battling a tough climate. State and local governments are still hurting.
There are urgent tasks to be undertaken to reinforce the recovery, and Congress should move now to help small business, to assist states in keeping teachers in the classroom, to increase investments in public infrastructure, to promote clean energy and to increase exports. And while making smart, targeted investments in our future, we must also cut the deficit over the next few years and make sure that America once again lives within its means.
These are considerable challenges, but we are in a much stronger position to face them today than when President Obama took office. By taking aggressive action to fix the financial system, reduce growth in health care costs and improve education, we have put the American economy on a firmer foundation for future growth.
And as the president said last week, no one should bet against the American worker, American business and American ingenuity.
We suffered a terrible blow, but we are coming back.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY TAXALI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



56 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: From Allies To Rivals To Allies

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
JAKARTA, Indonesia -- It is the political relationship that has long mystified Indonesia's chattering classes, one whose ups and downs regularly send tremors throughout the capital, and one whose future is intricately tied to this country's.
Going from allies to rivals to allies yet again, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and Aburizal Bakrie, the chairman of the main opposition party and one of Indonesia's richest businessmen, appear to be enjoying a period of uneasy truce. To most political observers, Mr. Bakrie, who plays tennis every day, now has the advantage. 
Mr. Yudhoyono, 60, long known for cautiousness and indecisiveness despite being re-elected last year in a landslide, has been disappointing supporters with his tepid backing of anticorruption efforts.
When Tempo, the nation's most respected magazine, recently reported that high-ranking national police officials had bank accounts holding millions of dollars in illicit funds, its offices were firebombed with Molotov cocktails in the kind of attack rarely seen since Indonesia began democratizing in 1998. Mr. Yudhoyono's only response was to instruct the national police to investigate the officials itself.
Mr. Bakrie, 63, a legendary political and business survivor, has again defied gravity by orchestrating the expulsion of a highly respected reformer from Mr. Yudhoyono's government and then being rewarded by the president with a new position that hands him fresh powers. Mr. Bakrie's family business empire prospered under Suharto, the general who ruled Indonesia until 1998, and he is considered by many to be a holdover from that era. His Golkar Party, which Suharto founded as his political vehicle, has regularly tried to block reforms in Parliament, even though it is part of Mr. Yudhoyono's coalition government.
In a recent speech to his party, Mr. Bakrie surprised many by urging the party's members to emulate rats. ''Be like the rat that bites someone's leg without letting the person know that he has been bitten,'' he said.
In describing the current balance of power between the two men, aides, perhaps tellingly, have adopted diametrically opposed talking points. While Mr. Bakrie's camp plays down his influence, the president's camp emphasizes Mr. Yudhoyono's continued relevance.
Dino Patti Djalal, who is the president's spokesman and is soon expected to be named the Indonesian ambassador to the United States, told foreign journalists that Mr. Yudhoyono's cautious approach was ''a virtue.''
Asked about the perception in the news media here that Mr. Bakrie had outmatched Mr. Yudhoyono, Mr. Djalal responded: ''I've never seen any indication that somebody or anybody has the upper hand over the president. I know that some people might think that from some events, but it's definitely not the case.''
Lalu Mara Satriawangsa, a spokesman for Mr. Bakrie and a deputy secretary general of the Golkar Party, waved away reports about his boss's growing clout. He dismissed Mr. Bakrie's new position -- as the chief of a coalition secretariat, which is expected to have considerable influence over making policy -- as merely handling ''communications.''
In an interview in his office inside the Bakrie family's business headquarters, Mr. Satriawangsa said that the two men enjoyed ''good relations'' and that Mr. Bakrie was ''a loyal person.''
The men's relationship goes back at least to 2004, when Mr. Yudhoyono, a former general, began what at first seemed a quixotic bid for the presidency. Mr. Yudhoyono had only a nascent party, the Democrats, and little financial support. But according to news media accounts over the years, which neither men have directly denied, Mr. Bakrie became one of Mr. Yudhoyono's earliest and biggest backers, even though he was a member of Golkar.
After becoming president, Mr. Yudhoyono first made Mr. Bakrie his economic minister, a choice that raised eyebrows since Mr. Bakrie's business interests include telecommunications, finance, real estate, mining, palm oil and gas. (Mr. Bakrie has said that he has played no role in his family's businesses since entering politics in 2003, but he has openly fought for policies favorable to his companies since then.)
After Mr. Yudhoyono was re-elected to a second and final term last year, Mr. Bakrie, who is believed to harbor presidential ambitions for 2014, won the chairmanship of the Golkar Party. The party joined Mr. Yudhoyono's coalition government, but relations have grown tense, especially compared with the first term.
Mr. Bakrie's party successfully led a campaign to remove one of the most highly respected reformers in Mr. Yudhoyono's government, Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati, whose ministry had been investigating Bakrie family businesses because they were suspected of evading hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. Lawmakers, led by the Golkar Party, backed an inquiry into a small bank whose bailout was approved by Ms. Indrawati and effectively forced her removal. Before leaving for Washington, where she was appointed a managing director at the World Bank, Ms. Indrawati attributed her departure to what she called a ''same sex'' political marriage between Mr. Yudhoyono and Mr. Bakrie.
On his blog, Mr. Bakrie wrote that Ms. Indrawati's departure, Golkar's subsequent dropping of the investigation into the bank bailout and his new position were all unrelated. Mr. Yudhoyono's critics have accused him of giving away too much to Mr. Bakrie.
Goenawan Mohamad, a founder of Tempo, the newsmagazine that was recently attacked, described recent events as the president's ''defeat'' to Mr. Bakrie.
''A more brutal politician would have stepped back and fought back, just like Bakrie,'' Mr. Mohamad said. ''But the president is not a fighter. He's not a gambler. He's not ruthless.''
As for Mr. Bakrie, he has been battling the perception that he is precisely too ruthless. On his blog, he wrote that his comments about rats had been misinterpreted. He said he did not urge Golkar members to adopt the rat's rapaciousness, but to emulate its reputed habit of assailing quietly and assiduously, unnoticed by its enemy.
''What I meant was the rat's tactical nature,'' he said, ''not its greedy nature.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, left, and Aburizal Bakrie, right, the chairman of Golkar, the main opposition party. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON REED/REUTERS
 ADEK BERRY/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); WRITERS (68%); FAMILY COMPANIES (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%)

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



57 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Losses Signal Gains at HSBC

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS PAISNER and WEI GU

 BODY:
HSBC is getting back to form. A sharp fall in losses at the bank's American operations, coupled with a strong performance from its investment bank, helped drive a doubling in first-half earnings from the same period in 2009.
The negative impact of impairments in the behemoth's troubled personal financial services business in the United States shrank. Declining credit losses in Latin America and Europe also raised its profit. 
Lower loan losses will, however, take HSBC only so far. Fortunately, it is also showing growth in the right places.
Its investment bank generated revenue of $10.8 billion, the division's second-best performance ever. It made more in the heady first half of 2009, when share and bond issues were flying off the shelves and there were bumper profits to be made on the trading floor. But HSBC is now making more money in investment banking than it did before the crisis. Few banks can make that claim.
Meanwhile, revenue is growing nicely at HSBC's Asian commercial businesses and falling sharply in its American retail unit, which is being wound down. That shift is a healthy rebalancing of activities toward higher-growth markets.
Still, there is only so much HSBC can do on its own. While the low interest rate environment is helping borrowers, it is a drag on HSBC's earnings. The bank's net interest margin, the difference between its interest income and financing costs, fell to 2.8 percent, from 3.1 percent in the first half last year.
Over all, the profit rebound allowed HSBC to increase its Tier 1 ratio of capital to assets by 0.7 percentage point, to 11.5 percent, during the first half, despite paying out around $2 billion in dividends. Yet that hefty capital base makes it harder for HSBC to make money.
The first-half return on equity, at 9.3 percent, is well below its 15 to 19 percent target. If its American business moves back into profit and other positive trends continue, HSBC should creep into its target range. But getting to the middle or top will be tough.
A Fine Line in China
Evidence that the Chinese economy is slowing should be fodder for double-dip doomsayers. But investors have taken in stride a fall in the country's manufacturing index to a 17-month low. With further cooling measures now looking unnecessary, they are probably right to be sanguine.
Continued Chinese expansion is a critical support for the troubled global recovery, but some deceleration is helpful. Gross domestic product rose by more than 10 percent in the year to June, much higher than the official 8 percent growth target for 2010. That led Beijing to introduce measures aimed at the hot property market and credit growth, in turn prompting investors to fear that tougher intervention might be in prospect.
The latest data provide some reassurance that the current measures are working well enough. The official manufacturing index was down to 51.2 in July, from 52.1 in June. But July figures are always lower than June's, so it is not quite the slowdown it seems.
On a seasonally adjusted basis, the July index even went up by 0.4 percentage points from June, according to Goldman Sachs. The figures are also distorted by July's floods, with heavy rains hitting the industrial bases of southern and northeastern China hard, damaging roads and forcing factory closings.
Recent tightening measures have nonetheless had an effect, in particular on the bubbly real estate sector. But activity is already recovering, helped by new public housing projects. Inventories of long steel products, typically used in construction, are falling and prices are rebounding sharply. Finished goods and raw materials inventories are also low. Judging by hiring activity, Chinese industry does not envisage a nasty slowdown. Manufacturers continue to add new workers, anticipating that they may have to raise production.
The situation is still finely balanced. For now, intervention seems to be producing the desired modest slowdown in growth, and it's easy to see why investors pushed Chinese equities higher on Monday -- despite an already strong rebound -- with the positive sentiment helping American stock markets, too. But the Chinese economy often goes through wild swings. It will take more than one month's data to be certain of a soft economic landing.
NICHOLAS PAISNER and WEI GU
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Inventories of long steel products, used in construction, are falling in China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TRENDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BOND ISSUES (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (52%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



58 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Personalities Fuel a One-Party Race for Washington Mayor

BYLINE: By YEGANEH JUNE TORBATI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At times it seems like the mayoral race here between the two front-runners -- Mayor Adrian M. Fenty, who is seeking a second term, and Vincent C. Gray, the City Council chairman -- is boiling down to a personality contest.
It is not because there are no important issues at stake as the two men battle for the Democratic nomination. 
At a spate of campaign events last week, for example, sparks flew over Mr. Fenty's schools chancellor, Michelle Rhee. Ms. Rhee has earned the ire of a teachers' union after dismissing dozens of teachers for poor performance, even as she has won plaudits for improving a notoriously bad school system. Mr. Gray has not indicated whether he would keep Ms. Rhee in the job if he were to take office, and Mr. Fenty has criticized what he characterized as Mr. Gray's wishy-washiness on the issue.
Mr. Gray also asserts that Mr. Fenty has not done enough to create jobs in a city where unemployment in some areas runs as high as one-third. And the two candidates have traded accusations of corruption and cronyism, each claiming the other steered city contracts worth millions to friends or supporters.
To some degree, it is a surprise to supporters on each side that Mr. Fenty, who has a big advantage in fund-raising and name recognition, appears at all vulnerable, given his reputation among Democrats in Washington as a successful reformer. Yet critics and even some supporters say that after a charmed first two years in office, Mr. Fenty grew aloof, canceling appearances, minimizing personal contact with residents and failing to adequately explain controversial new policies, including Ms. Rhee's overhaul of the school system.
In this heavily Democratic city, the race for the party's nomination, to be decided on Sept. 14, is tantamount to winning the general election in November, and the campaign has grown heated.
At a raucous mayoral forum hosted by the Ward 6 Democrats last week, Mr. Fenty's supporters were vocal and numerous but clearly outmatched by Mr. Gray's boisterous crowd. Mr. Gray, who as chairman was elected at-large and formerly represented Ward 7, has earned numerous prominent endorsements and won a number of straw polls in the city.
City Councilman David A. Catania, who has not endorsed either candidate, said the mayor had had a ''generational impact'' on the reform of Washington's public schools.
Another City Council member who has not announced an endorsement, Jim Graham, said Mr. Fenty ''has done things in this city that are truly remarkable.'' Mr. Graham said that Mr. Fenty had demonstrated good leadership during the blizzards that blanketed snow over the Washington area for weeks last winter, and that he had had also proved his ability to streamline and improve city services.
But, Mr. Graham added, ''in the process of being mayor he's obviously upset people, over issues that I bet in hindsight he would say didn't matter that much.''
Mr. Graham, citing one example of strained relationships in Washington political circles, pointed to the mayor's decision to withhold from City Council members the season tickets they traditionally receive to Nationals baseball games. Mr. Fenty conceded in a forum last week that the episode ''shouldn't have happened.''
The Fenty campaign said that making significant changes to the city's bureaucracy had meant upsetting entrenched interests, and that his administration had simply been making the tough decisions his predecessors avoided. Mr. Fenty had raised just under $4.4 million as of June, compared with $561,343 for Mr. Gray.
In an interview, Mr. Fenty acknowledged that his administration had not always done a particularly good job of connecting with voters.
''If you cannot communicate to people how much you have done, and how hard it's been, and how important it's been to them, you are going to have people who are disconnected,'' he said. ''Some people very plainly need more information, and if we don't get them that information, they really may not vote for us.''
Even Mr. Fenty said that constituents had come up to him and spoken of the substantive similarities between the candidates.
Critics of the mayor point less to any substantial policy failures than to what they called Mr. Fenty's unresponsive and at times even arrogant decision-making process.
''I think a lot of the decisions have been made absent of working with the other elected officials in this city,'' said City Councilman Harry Thomas Jr. Mr. Thomas, who is supporting Mr. Gray, said the City Council had not been made a partner in education reform efforts, for instance.
Lawrence Guyot, a civil rights activist who supports Mr. Fenty, said that many African-Americans in Washington were ''mad as hell'' at Mr. Fenty for not attending the funerals of prominent blacks and not including more blacks in his inner circle.
Franklin Garcia, the president of the District of Columbia Latino Caucus, said Mr. Gray had reached out to Latinos during his time on the Council more than Mr. Fenty had.
''All these different events that we've held throughout the years, we've always reached out to the mayor for his presence,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''At all times he's said no or ignored our calls. Chairman Vincent Gray has been able to substitute that void.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vincent C. Gray, above, the City Council chairman, is challenging Mayor Adrian M. Fenty of Washington for the Democratic nomination. Mayor Fenty has the advantage in name recognition and fund-raising, but Mr. Gray has picked up significant support. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); MAYORS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



59 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: 99 Weeks Later, Jobless Have Only Desperation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
BRATTLEBORO, Vt. -- Facing eviction from her Tennessee apartment after several months of unpaid rent, Alexandra Jarrin packed up whatever she could fit into her two-door coupe recently and drove out of town.
Ms. Jarrin, 49, wound up at a motel here, putting down $260 she had managed to scrape together from friends and from selling her living room set, enough for a weeklong stay. It was essentially all the money she had left after her unemployment benefits expired in March. Now she is facing a previously unimaginable situation for a woman who, not that long ago, had a corporate job near New York City and was enrolled in a graduate business school, whose sticker is still emblazoned on her back windshield.
''Barring a miracle, I'm going to be in my car,'' she said.
Ms. Jarrin is part of a hard-luck group of jobless Americans whose members have taken to calling themselves ''99ers,'' because they have exhausted the maximum 99 weeks of unemployment insurance benefits that they can claim. 
For them, the resolution recently of the lengthy Senate impasse over extending jobless benefits was no balm. The measure renewed two federal programs that extended jobless benefits in this recession beyond the traditional 26 weeks to anywhere from 60 to 99 weeks, depending on the state's unemployment rate. But many jobless have now exceeded those limits. They are adjusting to a new, harsh reality with no income.
In June, with long-term unemployment at record levels, about 1.4 million people were out of work for 99 weeks or more, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Not all of them received unemployment benefits, but for many of those who did, the modest payments were a lifeline that enabled them to maintain at least a veneer of normalcy, keeping a roof over their heads, putting gas in their cars, paying electric and phone bills.
Without the checks, many like Ms. Jarrin, who lost her job as director of client services at a small technology company in March 2008, are beginning to tumble over the economic cliff. The last vestiges of their former working-class or middle-class lives are gone; it is inescapable now that they are indigent.
Ms. Jarrin said she wept as she drove away from her old life last month, wondering if she would ever be able to reclaim it.
''At one point, I thought, you know, what if I turned the wheel in my car and wrecked my car?'' she said.
Nevertheless, the political appetite to help people like Ms. Jarrin appears limited. Over the last few months, 99ers have tried to organize to press Congress to provide an additional tier of unemployment insurance. But the political potency of fears about the skyrocketing deficit has drowned them out. The notion that unemployment benefits discourage recipients from finding work has also crept into Republican arguments against extensions. As a result, the plight of 99ers was notably absent from the recent debate in the Senate.
Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, is now working on a bill to help those in the group, a spokesman, Miguel Ayala, said, but the chances of providing them with additional weeks of benefits seem dim.
''It's going to be extremely hard to pass,'' said Andrew Stettner, deputy director of the National Employment Law Project. ''We barely got 60 votes to keep 99 weeks, so it's even harder to get more.''
Other ways of helping the long-term jobless might have a better shot of succeeding, Mr. Stettner said, like a temporary jobs program or assistance for emergency needs.
Ms. Jarrin ping-pongs between resolve and despair. She received her last unemployment check in the third week of March, putting her among the first wave of 99ers. Her two checking accounts now show negative balances (she has overdrafts on both). Her cellphone has been ringing incessantly with calls from the financing company for her car loan. Her vehicle is on the verge of being repossessed.
It is a sickening plummet, considering that she was earning $56,000 a year in her old job, enjoyed vacationing in places like Mexico and the Caribbean, and had started business school in 2008 at Iona College.
Ms. Jarrin had scrabbled for her foothold in the middle class. She graduated from college late in life, in 2003, attending classes while working full time. She used to believe that education would be her ticket to prosperity, but is now bitter about what it has gotten her.
''I owe $92,000 for an education which is basically worthless,'' she said.
Last year she moved to Brentwood, Tenn., south of Nashville, in search of work. After initially trying to finish her M.B.A. program remotely, she dropped out because of the stress from her sinking finances. She has applied for everything from minimum-wage jobs to director positions.
She should have been evicted from her two-bedroom apartment several months ago, but the process was delayed when flooding gripped middle Tennessee in May. In mid-July, a judge finally gave her 10 days to vacate.
Helped by some gas cards donated by a church, she decided to return to this quiet New England town, where she had spent most of her adult life. She figured the health care safety net was better, as well as the job market.
She contacted a local shelter but learned there was a waiting list. Welfare is not an option, because she does not have young children. She says none of her three adult sons are in a position to help her.
A friend wired her $200 while she was driving from Tennessee, enabling her to check into a motel along the way and helping to pay for her stay here. But Ms. Jarrin doubts that much more charity is coming.
''The only help I'm going to get is from myself,'' she said. ''I'm going to have to take care of me. That has to be through a job.''
So, in her drab motel room, Ms. Jarrin has been spending her days surfing the Internet, applying for jobs.
Lining the shelves underneath the television are her food supplies: rice and noodles that Ms. Jarrin mixes with water in the motel's ice bucket and heats up in a microwave; peanut butter and jelly; a loaf of white bread.
Ms. Jarrin still has food stamps, which she qualified for in Tennessee. But she is required to report her move, which will cut them off, so she will have to reapply in Vermont.
She has been struggling with new obstacles, like what to do when an address is required in online applications. She is worried about what will happen when her cellphone is finally cut off, because then any calls to the number she sent out with her resumes will disappear into a netherworld.
The news, however, has not been all bad. She had her first face-to-face interview in more than a year, for a coordinator position at a nonprofit drop-in center, on Monday.
And last Thursday, she got her first miracle, when an old friend from New York sent by overnight mail $300 in cash, enough for another week in purgatory.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alexandra Jarrin working on her job search at a motel in Brattleboro, Vt. She got her final unemployment check in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) CHARTS: Out of Work for What Seems Like Forever: A growing number of people have been out of work for more than 99 weeks -- the point at which all federal and state unemployment benefits, even extended ones, expire. Relative to their share of the labor force, men, blacks and those with a high school education or less are disproportionately represented in this group. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); EVICTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); TELEPHONE RATES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); DISMISSALS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); STATISTICS (65%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) VERMONT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



60 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Room for More Hotel Rewards

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
The rewards points given by the big hotel chains have worked out well for business travelers like Michael Burden, a commercial real estate consultant, who uses the points for a family trip or vacation.
''It's not the sole motivation, but as a family man with young children, a goal is to accumulate enough points to spend with them,'' he said. But the down side, he said, is that a room at a chain hotel in one city can feel pretty much like a room at the same chain in another city. ''There are times when you can forget where you are.''
That is exactly the sentiment that motivated Jeff Low, who formerly worked for the travel Web site Expedia, and e-commerce veterans of Amazon, Microsoft and Zillow to start a network of independent hotels that gives out points and serves as a counter to the points giants like Marriott, Hilton and Hyatt. 
The service, called Stash Hotel Rewards, started in May and has signed up 79 hotels in 63 cities, including Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, Seattle and Washington. The hotels include boutiques, spas and resorts and are all properties with ratings of three stars and above.
The ratings, Stash's Web site says, are based on its own assessment of the hotel's service, amenities, reputation and location. They are also patterned, Mr. Low said, on those of large travel sites like Travelocity and Expedia.
Members of the network include the Hotel Griffon, on the Embarcadero in San Francisco; the Little Palm Island Resort on Little Torch Key, Fla.; and the Sunset Marquis hotel in West Hollywood.
''Travelers said they often felt forced to make a frustrating trade-off,'' said Mr. Low, the chief executive of Stash Rewards. ''An independent hotel offers a more memorable, personalized guest experience, rather than the same bland room and identical bed in the big-box hotel just to earn points.''
Independent hotels have long sought ways to compete more effectively with their larger brethren, but stark differences in hotel type -- properties can range from individual motels at the side of a highway to luxury getaways -- hindered efforts. Then, the economic downturn made the need to attract more business more pressing.
At independents, overall occupancy dropped 8.9 percent last year, according to figures from Smith Travel Research. Rates also dropped 9.5 percent for the 22,600 independent hotels last year. Through June of this year, occupancy was up 3.4 percent, but rates were down 1.1 percent, according to the travel industry figures.
The figures were similar so far this year for the top 234 highest end independent hotels, where occupancy rose 4.2 percent, and rates dipped nearly 1 percent.
Banding together in a loyalty points system also became more feasible as computer technology became more affordable.
Having a rewards system is important, said Jan Freitag, vice president for global development at Smith Travel Research.
''All the chains have rewards programs, and they are in an arms race over points,'' Mr. Freitag said. ''Independent hotels can now say that we've got what you're looking for, and there's also something in it for you, the traveler.''
Points drive business, said Yogi Hutsen, chief executive for the Coastal Hotel Group, who signed up his hotels for Stash Rewards. ''Not giving points has been a drawback for independent hotels. We can now compete head to head.''
The independent hotel points network, operated from Palo Alto, Calif., awards five points for every dollar a customer spends. Points are earned immediately and do not expire. The system has no blackout periods or category restrictions, and travelers sign up free, Mr. Low said.
Under the Stash Rewards system, each hotel sets the price for its room based on availability. A hotel in Florida, for example, would charge more for a room in the peak winter season than in the summer -- and a guest member would have to cash in more points to secure a room during high seasons.
The new network charges independent hotels less to obtain guest business than online booking sites, according to independent hotel operators.
Independent hotels pay such sites around 25 percent of the gross amount of the booking, said Eric Horodas, chief executive of Greystone Hotels, which owns and operates independent hotels in San Francisco, Palo Alto, Los Angeles and San Diego. In contrast, Stash Rewards said it charged an average of 7 percent of the room revenue each guest member accumulated.
Online booking sites ''have a gigantic market,'' Mr. Horodas said. ''But I think this independent effort will grow, and the cost of capturing customers will come at a significantly lower cost.''
Mr. Low said he hoped to sign up 200 or more upscale properties by next year.
''We think we'll soon achieve scale in the U.S. that matches some of the big chains,'' Mr. Low said. Those include Hyatt, which has 240 properties, and Starwood, with 500 properties in the United States.
Andy Horrow, an independent marketing consultant from Chicago, who was among the 1,000 people who signed up the first week for the Stash Hotel Rewards program, said in previous jobs he had little choice in hotels because his employers often had deals for corporate rooms.
But business travelers making their own choices, he said, ''want to be comfortable, but not the kind of grandma's quilt comfort, but something hip and young at heart.''
''There are a lot of amazing hotels out there that I want to try,'' he said. He also said he saw a beach resort in Naples, Fla., listed on the Stash Rewards Web site, where he would one day take his family with the points he was accumulating.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeff Low, the chief executive of Stash Hotel Rewards, at the Hotel Andra in downtown Seattle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN P. CASEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESORTS (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); WEB SITES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); STATISTICS (64%); CHILDREN (57%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



61 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: 2 Men Convicted Of Airport Plot

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
A federal jury found two Guyanese men guilty on Monday of conspiring to attack Kennedy International Airport, concluding a monthlong trial that focused on their plan to blow up fuel tanks and set off a series of explosions along a pipeline that cuts through New York City.
The plot never advanced beyond the conceptual stage, and the planning sessions, some of which were recorded by a confidential informant, were alternately grandiose and absurd in some of its details. Talk of destroying the American economy mixed with suggestions of a ''ninja-style'' attack. 
As in some other recent terrorism cases, the threat as officials described it at the time of the arrests seemed to exceed the suspects' capacity. Like most of those cases, though, it resulted in conviction.
The defendants, Russell M. Defreitas and Abdul Kadir, had been monitored from an early stage in the plot by the informant, who posed as a member of the group, which included a number of other participants.
The informant, Steven Francis, had recorded the men at the airport during surveillance missions and on international trips to secure financial and logistical support for the attack.
The recordings were used by federal prosecutors to portray Mr. Defreitas, 67, an immigrant who became a United States citizen and is a former cargo handler at the airport, as the ''homegrown extremist'' who conceived and drove the plot.
Mr. Kadir, 58, a prominent Guyanese politician who served in Parliament and as mayor of a major city, initially emerged as a secondary figure, one of several conspirators portrayed as facilitating the plot by providing advice and contacts. But in testifying in his own defense, he opened himself to questions about whether he had spied for Iran.
The case, with its international reach, high-profile target and unusual cast of characters, drew headlines when the men were arrested more than three years ago.
The United States attorney in Brooklyn at the time, Roslynn R. Mauskopf, said the planned attack had the potential to cause ''unfathomable damage, deaths and destruction.''
But as time went on, more was revealed about the plot and the unlikelihood of its success (the fuel pipeline, for example, had safety mechanisms to prevent cascading explosions), as well as the level of government involvement (the informant had played a somewhat enabling role in pushing forward the plot).
The verdict came after five days of deliberations in a trial before Judge Dora L. Irizarry in United States District Court in Brooklyn. Both men showed no emotion as the decision was read.
Mr. Defreitas and Mr. Kadir face possible sentences of life in prison after their convictions on five counts of conspiring to commit acts of terrorism. Mr. Defreitas was also convicted of surveillance of an airport; Mr. Kadir was acquitted of that charge. They are scheduled to be sentenced Dec. 15. Their lawyers said they planned to appeal.
Two other men, Abdel Nur and Donald Nero, have pleaded guilty to participating in the plot. Another man, Kareem Ibrahim, is awaiting trial.
A lawyer for Mr. Kadir said he was disappointed but not surprised by the verdict, because the case played on concerns about Muslims and terrorism that are particularly resonant in New York.
''There was more than just the evidence Mr. Kadir was up against,'' the lawyer, Kafahni Nkrumah, said. ''There was the atmosphere of fear in the country.''
Once the trial began on June 30, intrigue grew over which of the two defendants presented the greater threat. Mr. Defreitas had been the focus of the prosecutors' opening statements, but by closing arguments, Mr. Kadir's name was mentioned nearly as often.
The voluminous recordings played in court left little doubt that Mr. Defreitas had tried to push the plot forward: he videotaped the airport, traveled to Guyana and Trinidad searching for like-minded Muslim militants, and frequently boasted of the damage the attack would cause -- promising that it would be ''worse than the World Trade Center.''
A prosecutor said the tapes showed him ''doing everything he can to make his nightmare a reality.''
Mr. Defreitas, a frail, gray-haired man who watched the trial in a listless slouch, was portrayed by his lawyers as what one of them said was ''a man with a small mind, a big mouth and an ugly imagination.''
They said he lacked the resources or sophistication to pull off the attack without the constant encouragement and assistance of Mr. Francis, who purchased a camera for their surveillance missions and had to instruct him how to use it.
''Russell Defreitas can't mastermind his way out of the on-off switch on a video camera,'' one of his lawyers said.
In contrast, Mr. Kadir's profile grew during the trial, particularly after his decision to testify in his own defense. Until that point, his contributions to the plot were less tangible, like suggesting that the men use Google Earth to view satellite photos of the airport; agreeing to store money for the plot in a bank account for his mosque; and helping to establish the code name for the attack: ''the chicken farm.''
But once on the stand, he was confronted with circumstantial evidence of ties to Iran, to which he was traveling when he was arrested in Trinidad in June 2007. The evidence included letters he wrote to the Iranian ambassador to Venezuela and to an Iranian diplomat who has been accused of leading a major terrorist plot in South America. Mr. Kadir denied spying for the country.
Since Sept. 11, 2001, of the 591 individuals charged in terrorism-related cases that have been resolved, only 9 were acquitted, according to the Center on Law and Security at New York University.
Francesca Laguardia, director of research for the N.Y.U. center, who was present for most of the trial, said the Iranian connections provided legitimacy to a trial in which the seriousness of the allegations contrasted with the appearance of Mr. Defreitas, who inspired ''no fear whatsoever.''
''One of the interesting things we learned is how much doesn't come out in these court cases,'' Ms. Laguardia said. ''We never would have found out all these connections with Iran, if he hadn't gotten on the stand.''
''Maybe it's an example of the reason,'' she added, ''why law enforcement takes cases seriously that the rest of us don't take seriously.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lawyers for two men convicted Monday on terrorism charges plan to appeal. Toni Messina and Kafahni Nkrumah, above, represented Abdul Kadir, and Mildred Whalen and Len H. Kamdang represented Russell M. Defreitas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); TERRORISM (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ESPIONAGE (75%); ARRESTS (74%); JUDGES (73%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ACQUITTAL (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



62 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: An Audio Pioneer Buys Beleaguered Newsweek

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Sidney Harman, a 91-year-old audio pioneer, will be the new owner of Newsweek, the Washington Post Company announced on Monday after a two-and-a-half-month search.
Now what does this deep-pocketed entrepreneur do with a magazine that lost nearly $30 million last year alone?
''It would be a remarkable conceit to tell you at this stage in the game that I have a plan,'' Mr. Harman said in an interview shortly after the announcement. ''The plan is there to be had. I regard myself as well equipped.'' 
Mr. Harman, who turns 92 on Wednesday, joins the likes of David Bradley and Laurence Grafstein, who made their money in ventures outside of publishing, then chose to take over struggling national publications. Asked why he was taking on this challenge now, Mr. Harman replied, ''Because I think I should stop misspending my youth.''
Betting on the future of a newsweekly, particularly Newsweek, which has been far less successful than its rival Time, is a gamble. But it is a chance Mr. Harman said he is eager to take.
''By no means do I have a sense that print media is done,'' he said. ''We are at an inflection point among print, mobile and digital.'' It is, he added, ''not a challenge to an entrepreneur to get on board when the inflection point has passed.''
The Post Company and its chairman, Donald E. Graham, turned away several potential buyers who they believed would lead the magazine in a markedly different editorial direction or make deep cuts in the staff of about 325. A person briefed on Mr. Harman's bid has said that he would retain about 250 of the magazine's employees.
In a news release, Mr. Graham said, ''In seeking a buyer for Newsweek, we wanted someone who feels as strongly as we do about the importance of quality journalism. We found that person in Sidney Harman.''
Mr. Graham, who was said to be concerned not only with the magazine's legacy but the legacy of his family's half-century of stewardship of the magazine, wanted the sale to cause as few disruptions as possible. The news release said that Mr. Harman intended to ''keep a majority of Newsweek's very talented staff.''
Not, however, Jon Meacham, who announced that he would leave as editor once the sale was complete. No successor was named. Mr. Meacham appeared with Mr. Harman in the Newsweek offices on Monday but said nothing as Mr. Harman charmed the assembled staff, according to a person who was there.
''I am sure Mr. Harman will be a good steward of the magazine and of its values,'' Mr. Meacham said in an e-mail. ''As I have told him, I will be rooting for him and for his team.'' He added, ''My own future will work itself out in due course.''
The financial details of the sale were not known, though one person with knowledge of Mr. Harman's bid said last week that Mr. Harman had offered to pay $1 in exchange for absorbing Newsweek's financial liabilities. A second person briefed on the sale said that very little cash would change hands, and that that Mr. Harman had agreed to assume more than $50 million in liabilities from The Post. As part of the deal, the Post Company will keep cash that Newsweek subscribers have already paid, and Mr. Harman will honor subscriptions, this person added.
The Post Company said Monday that it expected its loss or gain from the sale to be immaterial.
Newsweek has struggled through the recession more than most weekly news magazines. As recently as 2007 it was earning $30 million a year -- the amount it lost last year.
The longer it remained on the market, the less tenable its financial situation became. It has been an expensive product for the Post Company to produce, with its various international editions and separate back-office positions that were specific to the magazine. Instead of sharing a general counsel and accounting staff with the Post Company, for example, Newsweek has its own employees in those positions.
The magazine's top editors and managers redesigned it last year in hopes of attracting more readers and advertisers. But the new product, with more commentary and analysis on the news of the week, failed to catch on.
What the sale to Mr. Harman suggests, perhaps more than anything else, is that the right owner for a struggling media property like Newsweek is someone who can afford to lose tens of millions of dollars a year while the magazine tries to find a more successful approach.
''It always seemed clear to me that the person or people who bought Newsweek were going to have an egotistical or emotional reason for stepping in -- that it wasn't going to be purely a business decision. Because if you looked at the numbers, it just didn't make sense,'' said Charles Whitaker, a professor of journalism at Northwestern University.
The sale hardly signals the beginning of a turnaround for Newsweek and could ultimately prove to be little more than a stopgap, Mr. Whitaker added. ''I don't think anyone can stare at the tea leaves and see this as being the salvation for Newsweek. It could only be delaying the inevitable. It will take a lot of wisdom, foresight and really hard thinking about what a newsweekly should be like in a digital age.''
In its new owner, Newsweek appears to have an engaged and active steward. Mr. Harman seems unwilling and unready to have a quiet retirement. He started a business selling FM radios in the 1950s and built it into one of the largest audio equipment companies in the world, stepping down as the chief executive of Harman International Industries, which makes JBL and Infinity audio equipment, at age 88. He has continued to teach a business class at the University of Southern California and has said that when he plays golf, he walks all the way through 18 holes, and occasionally more.
He is married to Jane Harman, a Democratic congresswoman who represents Southern California. Asked whether being married to a congresswoman might represent a conflict of interest, he replied: ''We've been married for over 30 years. I've never told her how to run the government and she's never told me how to run the business. That's absolutely fundamental to us.''
Mr. Harman is also active in the Aspen Institute, a research organization led by Walter Isaacson, the former editor of Time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sidney Harman, 91, left, with his wife, Representative Jane Harman of California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE THEILER/REUTERS) (B10)
 Jon Meacham, Newsweek's editor, will step down when the sale of the magazine by the Washington Post Company is done. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%)

PERSON: SIDNEY HARMAN (93%); JANE HARMAN (79%); DONALD E GRAHAM (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



63 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Earnings At HSBC And BNP Lift Banks

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- HSBC and BNP Paribas reported higher earnings on Monday as a result of declines in provisions for bad loans. The reports set a positive backdrop for other European banks poised to report their earnings this week.
HSBC, the largest European bank, said earnings had doubled, to $6.76 billion, in the six months through the end of June compared with the period a year earlier. The company said its American unit returned to profit, adding that provisions for bad loans fell to the lowest level since the start of the financial crisis.
Charges for loan impairments and other credit risk provisions were $7.5 billion, $6.4 billion lower than in the first half of 2009, the bank said. The chief executive, Michael Geoghegan, called the decline ''encouraging.'' 
BNP, the largest French bank, reported a profit of 2.11 billion euros, or $2.78 billion, in the second quarter, a 31 percent increase from the period a year earlier. BNP also said it had needed to set aside less money to cover bad loans, and higher profit at its branches had helped offset a decline in trading activity that reduced earnings at its investment banking unit.
The results prompted a rally in shares of European banks on Monday. Shares in HSBC climbed 5.3 percent in London, and BNP closed up 2.8 percent in Paris.
Some analysts expect similar positive news from other European banks, including Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland, Societe Generale and UniCredit, when they report their figures this week. While investment banking revenue dropped as a shrinking appetite for risk among clients slowed trading, the retail operations of many banks benefited from lower loan-loss provisions as the economy recovered.
BNP's loan provisions fell 54 percent, to 1.08 billion euros, the lowest level since 2008, while revenue at the bank's corporate and investment division fell 30 percent.
Mr. Geoghegan, who is based in Hong Kong but was in London on Monday to present the bank's earnings, said he thought ''we're through the worst from a loan-impairment-charge view.'' As far as the economies in the West are concerned, the ''outlook remains uncertain,'' he said, adding that he remained bullish on China.
Indeed, HSBC is focusing on gaining market share in China, where it is adding new branches, and in India, where it agreed to buy R.B.S.'s commercial and consumer division last month.
HSBC's operation in the United States, which had been a drag on its earnings for the last two years, showed a pretax profit of $492 million, in contrast to a loss of $3.7 billion in the first half of 2009.
HSBC said it had increased lending by 4 percent from the end of 2009. The largest increase was in Asia, where lending grew by 15 percent, it said. HSBC is expanding in Asia to benefit from the region's stronger economies and in anticipation of increasing demand for banking products from a growing population.
In the meantime, Britain's government continued to criticize banks for not lending enough and threatening an economic recovery. During an interview with a British newspaper over the weekend, George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, called on British banks to lend more to companies instead of paying higher bonuses.
''Every small and medium-sized company that I have visited in recent weeks has had some problem with their bank -- either they have found it difficult to renew their overdraft or they demanded additional collateral, often someone's house,'' Mr. Osborne said.
HSBC acknowledged that it had tightened its procedures for lending to small and midsize companies but denied it was holding back on lending, adding that many clients had repaid loans and demand for credit had suffered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BANK BRANCHES (77%); EURO (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BNP PARIBAS SA (91%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (91%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (66%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BNP (PAR) (91%); BNP (BIT) (91%); GLE (PAR) (91%); GLE (BIT) (91%); RBS (NYSE) (66%); RBS (LSE) (66%); RBS (AMS) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (77%); ASIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



64 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: A Young Republican With a Sweeping Agenda

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
ELKHORN, Wis. -- Still early on a recent weekday morning, the mostly elderly crowd that half-filled a hall in this small town looked like it might be thinking about another cup of coffee. But Representative Paul D. Ryan, the rangy Republican who represents this southeastern Wisconsin district, was in full PowerPoint roll, gesturing and barking out, in staccato tones, why the nation must make major changes to Social Security and Medicare.
''The question is, Could this happen here?'' Mr. Ryan said, as an image of a burning street from the recent riots in Greece flashed on a screen behind him.
''Do you want this welfare state, which puts us down this tipping point, advances this culture of dependency, moves us away from the America idea toward more of a Western European social democracy welfare state? Do you want that which invites a debt crisis? Or the alternative party is offering you an opportunity society on top of a safety net where we reclaim these ideals and principles that founded this country. That's what we owe you. And if we get back in office and we shrink from that challenge, shame on us.'' 
In this highly charged election season with both houses of Congress at stake, not a lot of politicians are lining up publicly behind Mr. Ryan. He is, nonetheless, suddenly a rising star in some corners. And like many other politicians whose ideas were once considered extreme, only to later be mainstream -- like Ronald Reagan -- Mr. Ryan is seen as on the leading edge of something.
Why? His ''Roadmap for America's Future,'' an elaborate (critics say drastic) plan that aims to erase the federal debt by 2063, simplify the tax code and significantly alter (his critics say eviscerate) Medicare and Social Security. When asked to handicap the 2012 Republican presidential field, Sarah Palin called Mr. Ryan ''sharp.'' Newt Gingrich dubbed him ''extraordinarily formidable.'' And, in a column, George Will imagined him as vice president to a President Mitch Daniels (now the Republican governor of Indiana).
Mr. Ryan, 40 and the ranking Republican on the House budget committee, has been in Congress 12 years, but it may have been President Obama who gave him and his Roadmap the broadest attention yet. This year, Mr. Obama alluded to the plan as a ''serious proposal,'' though the White House promptly made it clear that it had problems with its details.
Mr. Ryan's Roadmap served as an answer to those who have accused Republicans of saying no, while having no ideas of their own. It has taken fierce criticism from Democrats, who seem content to have something to hate, but it is drawing a far more awkward, unwanted dividing line for Republicans over the sensitive politics of entitlement programs.
Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, the minority leader, has praised Mr. Ryan but said the Roadmap would not be a part of the Republican agenda this fall.
''There are parts of it that are well done,'' Mr. Boehner told reporters last month. ''Other parts I have some doubts about, in terms of how good the policy is.''
In fact, only 13 House Republicans have signed on as co-sponsors, and Republican leaders, hoping for gains in the fall and, ultimately, in 2012, seem concerned at the possibility that the Roadmap may eventually become something candidates will be forced to take a position on. After all, what candidate wants to talk about major changes to Medicare and Social Security?
Even some of Mr. Ryan's loudest supporters are reluctant to support the Roadmap top to bottom. Mr. Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, lavished praise on Mr. Ryan's intellect and discipline, but did not go so far as to endorse the Roadmap.
''I think it's a very good starting point,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''It's not a yes-no. When you undertake change on that scale, you have to have a national conversation.''
Fit from years of an intense exercise program called P90X and with hair as thick as Rod R. Blagojevich's (and cut in a more contemporary fashion), Mr. Ryan has become a regular on the cable news circuit, and a book about conservative politics that he co-wrote -- ''Young Guns'' -- will include his picture on the cover when it comes out this fall.
But Mr. Ryan is still a wonk. He studied economics in college, once intended to seek an advanced degree from the University of Chicago's school of economics, and meant to become an economist. Somewhere between stints working for Jack Kemp, a mentor, and Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, he meandered into public policy. The inner nerd seeps through: he often sleeps on a cot in the office, says he has ''every 15-minute interval'' until September scheduled, and writes up these PowerPoints himself (''I really like PowerPoint'').
Mr. Ryan favors small government and gun rights and opposes abortion. Mr. Obama, he says, is a pleasant person -- not ''nefarious or evil'' -- but extremely liberal, and ''accelerating our path to cradle-to-grave welfare programs.''
The Roadmap, which cuts spending decades into the future, is packed with detail, though not everyone agrees what it would yield. People could choose a simplified, two-rate tax system. Corporate income tax would be replaced with a business consumption tax.
For people now younger than 55, Medicare would become a voucher program in which they would buy private insurance, and Social Security would allow people to create individual investment accounts paid for with payroll taxes. With both entitlement programs, the age eligibility requirements would gradually go up. Advocates praise the plan as a realistic way to take on the nation's out-of-control debt and prevent the utter collapse of a Medicare and Social Security program, while critics say it guts those programs and would leave old, vulnerable people fending for themselves. Most political consultants advise steering clear of the whole conversation: messing with Social Security and Medicare, they calculate, never wins votes -- something Wisconsin Democrats have instantly homed in on.
''We will be talking about his oddball plan to end Medicare and privatize Social Security,'' Graeme Zielinski, a spokesman for the state Democratic Party, said. ''Republicans usually do a tap dance around the reality of the Republican fantasy of ending Social Security and Medicare. One thing you can say for him: he really wants to make it the reality.''
Mr. Zielinski also questioned Mr. Ryan's professed passion about the deficit; where, he asked, was Mr. Ryan's concern during the Bush administration? (Mr. Ryan's staff counters that he has talked about these concerns and voted against several Republican spending bills over the years.)
For now, Mr. Ryan appears politically safe. His campaign has raised $2.1 million, more than in any of his six prior races.
His family has lived in these parts since 1851, and it shows. He calls the waitress at the hamburger joint by name. Older residents stop to fuss over whether he is eating enough.
Democrats, meanwhile, scrambled to find an opponent, eventually signing up John Heckenlively, who has never won office but said he was moved by the thought, ''What, nobody is going to run?''
That is not to say that Democrats never win this district, a conglomeration of farm towns, industrial cities like Janesville and south Milwaukee suburbs. Mr. Obama won here.
Mr. Ryan has been talking about the ideas in the Roadmap since 2008, when he published an earlier version. During several town-hall-style meetings on a recent day, he received a few questions about Social Security and Medicare, but no pointed complaints. His plan, he tells one group, is not to end anything.
''If we did that, my mom would kill me,'' Mr. Ryan said, adding that his mother, Betty, receives Social Security.
Later, Mr. Ryan said, ''I don't think these things are third rails anymore. People are ready for this.''
Mr. Ryan and his allies -- who admit that the Roadmap is unlikely to get a real hearing in Congress soon -- say Republican colleagues who have yet to support the idea are probably following the admonitions of political consultants. But Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, who signed on to the Roadmap months ago, says candidates in 2012 will be forced to take a stand -- up or down -- on its ideas.
''The deficit isn't going away, the entitlements aren't getting better, and it's tough times out there,'' Mr. Nunes said. ''The presidential candidates are going to have a problem with this.''
From the Mouth Of a Lawmaker: Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin ON WHETHER HE CONSIDERS HIMSELF PART OF THE TEA PARTY MOVEMENT: ''Kind of. I guess so. I never really thought about it like that.'' ON GOV. MITCH DANIELS OF INDIANA: ''He runs his state like a C.E.O. I'm intrigued with him.'' ON REPRESENTATIVE MICHELE BACHMANN, REPUBLICAN OF MINNESOTA: ''She's a boundless ball of energy.'' ON WHY HE DISMISSES THOSE WHO SUGGEST HE RUN FOR PRESIDENT IN 2012: ''Other people can run for president. Other people can't raise my kids.'' ON WHETHER SARAH PALIN IS QUALIFIED TO BE PRESIDENT: ''She has as much qualification as the current occupant of the White House.'' ON WHY HE WINS ELECTION: ''I have 67 cousins in Janesville.'' ON WHAT LEVEL OF DEBT IS ALLOWED IN HIS HOME: ''No credit card debt. A mortgage.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO
Representative Paul D. Ryan, a 12-year veteran at 40, meeting with a women's group in June in Burlington, part of his southeastern Wisconsin district. (A10)
 Representative Paul D. Ryan listening to a constituent in June at a gathering in Burlington, Wis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RANKINGS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); TAX LAW (65%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); SARAH PALIN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (77%); GREECE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



65 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: Platform: Jobs. Experience: The N.B.A.

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
PORTLAND, Ore. -- Among politicians in this state, Chris Dudley stands out. Especially when he is standing up.
In a visit to a rodeo in the coastal town of Tillamook, Dudley dwarfed a port commissioner who asked for greater investment in salmon hatcheries. At a farmers' market in Portland's suburbs, he towered over a state senator. In a downtown conference room with a school superintendent, he looked like the only grown-up at the kids' table.
Like most people who run for governor, Dudley is crisscrossing his state to shake hands, kiss babies and chitchat with voters. Unlike most people, he is doing so at the height of 6 feet 11 inches, his ticket to a 16-year N.B.A. career.
''It really is a great icebreaker,'' Dudley said in a recent interview. ''People are very comfortable coming up to me -- a lot of them feel like they know me already from my time playing.'' 
Dudley, 45, is an unusual political candidate. He played basketball at Yale, a university far better known for producing politicians than N.B.A. players, and did so while living with diabetes. And in N.B.A. history, no player who scored as little as Dudley -- he averaged 3.9 points a game and was famous for his inept free-throw shooting -- has managed to linger longer than his 886 games, which included three and a half seasons with the Nets and three with the Knicks.
He faces an uphill battle in the political arena, too: President Obama won Oregon by 16 percentage points in 2008, and the last time a Republican was elected governor in the state was 1982. But polls have put Dudley in a virtual dead heat with his Democratic opponent, former Gov. John A. Kitzhaber. (The most recent poll, released last Wednesday by SurveyUSA, put Dudley ahead by 2 percentage points, within the margin of error.)
Dudley's advisers say they hope to replicate the kind of jobs-focused campaign that helped win governorships for Republicans last year in two other states that went for Obama, New Jersey and Virginia.
And his celebrity status -- he played for the Portland Trail Blazers from 1993 to 1997 and 2001 to 2003, and has lived in Portland's suburbs since -- has not hurt.
''Playing in the N.B.A., you're used to getting attention, and it's normal to have people come up to you and talk to you about sports,'' Dudley said. ''Now, people are coming up to you and talking about their life, and what's going on, and their frustrations with what's happening in our state, and you really get to know people at a different level, and I've enjoyed that.''
But campaigning brings some unusual logistical challenges. At a visit to a nonprofit education group here, an office chair nearly collapsed underneath him as he tried to park his gangly frame. At a happy hour for young supporters, he tried to speak from a doorway -- except he could not fit in the doorway.
Most people internalize as children that it is rude to point, but when a 6-11 man walks by, that bit of etiquette seems to be forgotten. On the campaign trail, onlookers tend to gawk, and many people introduce themselves by informing Dudley how tall he is.
Dudley does not seem to mind. ''I'm a tall guy,'' he said. ''It's something that happens.''
His advisers do not seem to mind, either.
''People want to shake his hand,'' said Kerry Tymchuk, who was the state director for former Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, and is an informal adviser to Dudley. ''Some of it's the Blazers factor, the celebrity factor, the fact he's tall. But it's certainly an asset when people want to meet you.''
Becoming a Politician
A former treasurer for the National Basketball Players Association, Dudley said he was growing more comfortable as a politician. He has shown an ability to raise money, netting $2.73 million to Kitzhaber's $1.76 million, according to the Oregon secretary of state's office, which has allowed Dudley to run a steady diet of unchallenged television ads (the most recent features the head of the players union, Billy Hunter).
Among the contributors to Dudley's campaign are N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern; the founder of Nike, Phil Knight; the coaches P. J. Carlesimo and Rick Carlisle; and his former Blazers teammates Clyde Drexler and Terry Porter.
''The voters of this state don't get too excited about Republican governors, I can tell you that right now,'' said Porter, who is a member of the campaign's finance committee. ''But he's going to put in the tireless effort that he's always been known for on the basketball court.''
Dudley, who has worked as a financial adviser since retiring from the N.B.A. in 2003 and also runs a foundation that helps children with diabetes, likes to tell people that ''out of crisis comes opportunity.''
It is also what his advisers say will propel him into the governorship. Dudley is not running on social issues -- he supports abortion rights and civil unions, for instance -- but rather matters related to job creation and the economy. Oregon's 10.5 percent unemployment rate is tied for the eighth highest in the country.
In doing so, Dudley is targeting the same breed of frustrated independent voters who last fall helped elect Republican governors Robert F. McDonnell in Virginia and Chris Christie in New Jersey (the better parallel of the two).
''He's tried to focus attention on a classic Republican approach, which is to say he's proposing tax cuts, and cutting taxes is always popular,'' said Bill Lunch, the chairman of the political science department at Oregon State University and the political analyst for Oregon Public Broadcasting. ''That kind of approach is one that certainly has worked well for many Republicans in many elections, so I don't doubt that he's got a real chance of winning.''
A Question of Experience
But unlike McDonnell and Christie, Dudley is running without any political experience. And although Dudley said politics was the dinner-table conversation in his house while he was growing up -- his grandfather was the ambassador to Denmark during the Nixon administration -- he admitted to The Oregonian last year that he was not sure if he had voted in a single election while playing in the N.B.A.
He also came under fire last month for declining to attend what was traditionally the first gubernatorial debate; critics suggested he did not want to face Kitzhaber. A spokesman denied that, saying that Dudley -- who was vacationing with his family in Aspen, Colo., and also attended a meeting of the Republican Governors Association while he was there -- looks forward to debating Kitzhaber.
Dudley said he viewed his lack of political experience as ''a real positive''; when he talks about how he would bring a fresh perspective and clean slate to the governorship, he is not so subtly painting himself in opposition to Kitzhaber.
Kitzhaber's campaign has a different view. ''Mr. Dudley is more rookie than outsider,'' said Jillian E. Schoene, Kitzhaber's spokeswoman. ''We fully expect to send him back to the development league at the end of this race.''
The Bradley Precedent
Dudley's advisers scoff at that. For one thing, Dudley's attempt to parlay N.B.A. fame into a political career is not without precedent; most notably, the former Knick Bill Bradley, a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame, served three terms as a Democratic senator from New Jersey.
Dudley's bigger challenge, his supporters say, is avoiding being typecast as a jock or a celebrity.
''There's an initial skepticism: who is this N.B.A. player who's trying to run for governor?'' said John C. Davis, a 27-year-old lawyer who is volunteering for the campaign. ''But then people meet Chris, and that skepticism melts away.''
Dudley, for his part, finds that skepticism funny. ''When I was playing in the N.B.A., it was, 'Well, he's from Yale, he's too intellectual,' '' he said. ''Now it's flipped back the other way.''
Fun While Campaigning
Dudley appears to like campaigning, and there is a certain joie de vivre to his days.
On a recent Saturday, Dudley, his wife and their three children attended a farmers' market, a hot-air balloon festival and a rodeo. Or at least that was the plan. There were no hot-air balloons at the festival, and the bleachers sat empty at the rodeo, which was scheduled for that night, not the afternoon.
But the Dudleys did not seem to mind, and neither did their children, who were most interested in the various foods they could guilt their parents into buying them: waffles with strawberries at the farmers' market, corn dogs at the balloon festival, barbecued ribs at the rodeo.
By and large, people approached Dudley to talk about basketball or his height, not politics. Perhaps the most intense policy debate of the day came when Dudley, his family and a campaign aide argued about the worthiness of mustard versus ketchup on corn dogs.
''It's been all about food consumption,'' said his wife, also named Chris, who the campaign likes to point out is a fifth-generation Oregonian (Dudley himself was born in Connecticut and went to high school in San Diego).
Dudley's older son, 11-year-old Charles, sees another upside in his father's campaign. He has already contacted Guinness World Records to find out how to get his father listed -- assuming he wins the election.
''It's just so funny: world's tallest governor,'' Charles said. ''He's got to be the tallest. Who could be taller?''
But like his father, Charles has embraced being a politician, too.
''It's just for the fun of it,'' he stressed in regard to his campaign for a world record. ''I always think in my head, that's not why we're actually doing this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In running to become the first Republican elected governor of Oregon since 1982, the 6-11 Chris Dudley has found his height to be an asset. ''It really is a great icebreaker'' on the campaign trail, said Dudley, a Knick for three years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10)
 Joining Chris Dudley at a campaign event were his daughter, Emma, holding his hand, and son Charles, in hat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CELEBRITIES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); CHILDREN (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); FINFISH FARMING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (56%); DIABETES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KITZHABER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (94%) OREGON, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



66 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Says Rising Wages Will Lift Spending

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said rising wages would probably spur household spending in the next few quarters, even as weak job gains dragged down consumer confidence.
Separately, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said that the government would press ahead with its overhaul of financial regulation under a new law intended to strengthen supervision and prevent future crises.
Mr. Geithner, who will lead a new committee of senior officials charged with guarding against systemic risks, said regulators would move swiftly to set new rules and provide clarity on their effect. The goal is to avoid the ''glacial pace'' of most oversight changes and cut through layers of ineffective past efforts, he said. 
Investors and the public have been closely watching signals about the economy and the Fed's possible policy moves to address problems.
While the United States has ''a considerable way to go'' for a full recovery, ''rising demand from households and businesses should help sustain growth,'' Mr. Bernanke said on Monday in a speech in Charleston, S.C. ''We are maintaining strong monetary policy support for the recovery,'' he said in response to an audience question, without discussing any further action the Fed could take to aid growth.
The remarks signal that Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues, when they meet in Washington next week, will stop short of making major changes in their policy statement or taking new steps to lower interest rates and reduce unemployment, said John Ryding, a former Fed researcher. Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, ''seems likely to pick up in coming quarters from its recent modest pace,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
''Further action still has a pretty high hurdle to get over,'' said Mr. Ryding, chief economist and a founder at RDQ Economics in New York. ''The status quo on policy remains.''
Fed policy makers are now starting to consider how to bolster the recovery and reduce unemployment after a year of developing tools to remove record monetary stimulus.
A report last week showed that the American economy, recovering from the worst recession since the 1930s, slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than forecast, as a scarcity of jobs eroded consumer spending.
The economy ''is now expanding at a moderate pace,'' Mr. Bernanke said at the Southern Legislative Conference, a group of lawmakers from 15 states. ''To be sure, notable restraints on the recovery persist,'' including housing, commercial real estate and the labor market, he said.
A lesson from the Great Depression is that ''we need to make sure that monetary policy continues to provide the support the economy needs until we begin to see sustained growth and particularly growth in jobs,'' Mr. Bernanke said in response to a question.
The Fed chief devoted most of the speech to current and long-term budget problems for state and local governments. States are cutting spending to close a combined $84 billion of budget deficits. The reductions are ''weighing on economic activity,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
Mr. Bernanke and the Federal Open Market Committee will meet on Aug. 10 in Washington to discuss interest rates and the economy.
Options outlined last month by Mr. Bernanke to aid growth and keep rates low include using communication to convey the path of borrowing costs, reduce the rate the Fed pays on excess reserves deposited with the central bank and expand the balance sheet through asset purchases.
The Fed signaled in June that Europe's debt crisis might harm American growth and repeated a pledge to keep interest rates near zero ''for an extended period.''
The central bank cut the benchmark interest rate almost to zero in December 2008 and turned to purchases of Treasury, housing-agency and mortgage-backed securities as the main tool of monetary policy.
Alan Greenspan, Mr. Bernanke's predecessor as Fed chief from 1987 to 2006, said in an NBC interview on Sunday that the slowing recovery felt like a ''quasi-recession'' and the economy might contract again if home prices declined.
Last week, James Bullard, the St. Louis Fed president, said that the central bank should resume purchases of Treasury securities if the economy slowed and prices fell rather than maintain a pledge to keep rates near zero. ''The U.S. is closer to a Japanese-style outcome today than at any time in recent history,'' Mr. Bullard said, warning about the possibility of deflation.
At a speech on Monday, however, Mr. Geithner said that the economy was ''healing'' and was in no danger of confronting a deflationary threat like the challenges that have faced the Japanese economy. The United States now faces the ''core challenge'' of increasing its savings, he said.
Investors have also been concerned about the impact of the financial overhaul that President Obama signed into law.
The rules give regulators new tools to dismantle a firm whose collapse could threaten global markets, in addition to the new council of regulators. It also accelerates efforts to standardize derivatives markets.
Mr. Geithner said in his speech at New York University on Monday that the new regulations should be set up in a way that helps the economy recover from the financial crisis and recession.
He also said that Americans needed to set aside a larger portion of their income and consider the risks that accompany investing and borrowing. He added that future growth required investor confidence that the United States would cut its deficits over time.
Mr. Geithner said banks were well positioned to adopt new international standards on how much capital banks would be required to hold.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, above, addressed an audience at New York University on Monday. Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chief, top, spoke in South Carolina. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES
 MAHMOOD FAZAL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



67 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Grows, But Pace Slows Further

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Manufacturing in the United States grew for a 12th month in July, providing a lift to the slowing recovery.
And many manufacturers said they were willing to hire, a sign that the industry could help ease the nation's high unemployment rate. 
The latest report from the Institute for Supply Management did note Monday that manufacturing growth had cooled in the last three months. But much of that was expected. Many businesses are no longer building their stocks after slashing them during the worst recession in decades.
''Yes, the pace eased back a touch, but it was nothing to be worried about,'' said Joel L. Naroff, president and chief economist for Naroff Economic Advisors. ''Indeed, employment expanded faster, which was a surprise. Manufacturers have been adding workers at a decent pace and I expected them to start hiring more slowly.''
The strength in manufacturing has helped counter weaknesses in the broader economy. Unemployment has been near double digits all year and economists expect it to stay that way through the rest of the year. Businesses are adding jobs, but not enough to bring the unemployment rate down. As a result, consumers are holding back.
The housing market has struggled since government tax credits expired in April, a point confirmed Monday in a report from the Commerce Department. Construction spending edged up slightly in June. Still, all the strength came from government building. Private sector activity in both housing and nonresidential projects fell.
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said Monday that the nation faced a long road back to good economic health. Mr. Bernanke noted in a speech in South Carolina that the worst of the financial crisis was past and that the economy was growing again.
''But we have a considerable way to go to achieve a full recovery in our economy, and many Americans are still grappling with unemployment, foreclosure and lost savings,'' Mr. Bernanke said in a speech in Charleston.
Manufacturing is also losing some strength. The manufacturing index slipped to 55.5 in July from 56.2 in June -- the third month that growth has slowed. Still, a reading above 50 indicates expansion, and the index has been above that level for the past year.
Manufacturing helped drive the early stages of the recovery as many businesses began rebuilding their stocks after slashing them during the recession. The pace of growth has ebbed since peaking in April at 60.4. But it is well above the 32.5 reading in December 2008 -- the low point during the recession.
The report also noted that more manufacturers said they were willing to hire, a welcome sign despite the deceleration in growth that was expected as the inventory restocking boom faded.
The report suggested that manufacturing was going to continue to grow for the rest of the year, and more quickly than the broader economy, said Daniel J. Meckstroth, the chief economist for the Manufacturers Alliance-MAPI, an industry association. Spending by businesses on capital investments is now the primary driver for companies that make goods, he said.
Spending on housing construction fell in June for a second consecutive month, dropping 0.8 percent after an even bigger 1.5 percent decline in May.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Construction Spending: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (53%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010



68 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1738 words

HEADLINE: Tracing Oil Reserves to Their Tiny Origins

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
In 1913, as the automobile zoomed into American life, The Outing Magazine gave its readers a bit of background on what fueled the new motorcars in ''The Story of Gasoline.'' After a brief vignette describing the death of ''old Colonel Stegosaurus Ungulatus,'' the article explained that ''yesterday you poured the remains of the dinosaur from a measuring-can -- which, let us hope, held five gallons, full measure -- into your gasoline tank.''
The idea that oil came from the terrible lizards that children love to learn about endured for many decades. The Sinclair Oil Company featured a dinosaur in its logo and in its advertisements, and outfitted its gas stations with giant replicas that bore long necks and tails. The publicity gave the term ''fossil fuels'' new resonance.
But the emphasis turned out to be wrong. 
Today, a principal tenet of geology is that a vast majority of the world's oil arose not from lumbering beasts on land but tiny organisms at sea. It holds that blizzards of microscopic life fell into the sunless depths over the ages, producing thick sediments that the planet's inner heat eventually cooked into oil. It is estimated that 95 percent or more of global oil traces its genesis to the sea.
''It's the dominant theory,'' said David A. Ross, scientist emeritus at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution on Cape Cod. The idea, he added, has been verified as geologists have roamed the globe over the decades and repeatedly found that beds of marine sediments are ''a good predictor'' of where to discover oil.
The theory also explains offshore drilling -- why there is oil in many seabeds, why it is more often near shore than in the abyss, and why, despite the Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, which killed 11 crewmen and caused the worst offshore oil spill in American history, oil experts say offshore drilling may increase, rather than cease.
As land reservoirs dry up, oil geologists say, the high costs and potential risks of offshore drilling will seem less onerous and more acceptable. This, of course, is a matter of politics and economics as much as geology. Just because the oil is there doesn't mean wells must be drilled. Many things could affect the frequency of offshore drilling, like the public interest in and commitment to the development of alternative energy sources, not only solar, wind, geothermal and other natural processes, but nuclear fission and even fusion.
Whatever the future importance of oil, offshore beds are the most likely new sources. ''For most areas, offshore offers the greatest potential,'' said William E. Galloway, an oil geologist at the University of Texas at Austin. ''We've been drilling wells for a hundred years and most of those have been on land. So the volumes that remain unexplored are primarily offshore in areas that have previously been inaccessible.''
Some of the ancestral waters that made the planet's oil still exist, like the Gulf of Mexico, while others have long vanished, like the ocean that produced the massive oil fields of the Middle East. The bodies come and go because the earth's crust, through seemingly rigid, actually moves a great deal over geologic time, tearing apart continents and ocean basins and rearranging them like pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle.
The secret of the oil story turned out to be understanding how the bygone oceans, ancient seas and smaller bodies of water produced complex environmental conditions that raised the prevalence of microscopic life and ensured its deep burial, producing what eventually became the earth's main oil reservoirs.
The clues accumulated over more than a century and included discoveries from geology, chemistry and paleontology. An early indication was that petroleum discoveries were always associated with ancient beds of sedimentary rock -- the kind that forms when debris rains down through water for ages and slowly grows into thick seabed layers.
A breakthrough came in the 1930s. Alfred E. Treibs, a German chemist, discovered that oil harbored the fossil remains of chlorophyll, the compound in plants that helps convert sunlight into chemical energy. The source appeared to be the tiny plants of ancient seas.
By the 1960s and 1970s, oil samples were producing many fossil molecules. One class, the hopanoids, were seen as representing the remains of ancient microbes that fed on seabed detritus. A 2009 book, ''Echoes of Life: What Fossil Molecules Reveal About Earth History'' (Oxford University Press), says geologists found so many fossil molecules, and in such variety, that they began using them as fingerprints to identify the family relationships among pockets of deep oil.
A separate breakthrough came as paleontologists peering at oil came to recognize a host of microfossils. Often smaller than grains of sand, the fossils nonetheless spoke volumes. Many were foraminifera, minuscule sea creatures with a bewildering array of shells. Oil geologists began using the foraminifera's shifting appearance as a reliable guide to geologic dating.
As the clues fell into place, so did the big picture. It was the dominant view by the 1970s.
The process typically starts in warm seas ideal for the incubation of microscopic life. The sheer mass is hard to imagine. But scientists note that every drop of seawater contains more than a million tiny organisms.
Oil production begins when surface waters become so rich in microscopic life that the rain of debris outpaces decay on the seabed. The result is thickening accumulations of biologic sludge.
Dorrik Stow, a petroleum geologist at Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, said the flow of nutrients into surface waters -- partly from rivers and coastal regions, partly from the upwelling of bottom currents -- determines the richness of the microscopic life and ultimately the oil abundance.
In his new book, ''Vanished Ocean: How Tethys Reshaped the World'' (Oxford University Press), Dr. Stow describes how these nutrient surges can engender ''a biological orgy'' of frenzied reproduction that ultimately ends in ''black death.'' The black mud is riddled with the remains of life, and eventually form into sedimentary rock.
The history of the Gulf of Mexico shows how many environmental factors came together to produce huge oil reserves. Perhaps most important, the big rivers and waterways of North America sent rich flows of nutrients into the ancient gulf, much as the Mississippi River does today.
Scott W. Tinker, the state geologist of Texas, said the abundant flows of mud and sediment not only fed microscopic life but also formed rocky barriers that sealed off the organic remains from the outer world. A main barrier was shale, a sedimentary rock made of clay and silt.
''The organics got buried quickly because of the heavy sediment flow,'' Dr. Tinker said. ''So they didn't get biodegraded as quickly. You preserved the organic richness.''
He said the flow was so heavy that the growing accumulations keep pressing the lower sediment layers deeper into the earth, forcing them into hot zones where the organic material got transformed into oil. The process involves a long series of chemical reactions that slowly turn life molecules into inanimate crude.
''The gulf has miles and miles of sediments,'' he said. ''So that gets the source rocks down into the kitchen where they cook.''
The standard temperature for oil formation is between 120 and 210 degrees Fahrenheit. The earth gets increasingly warm with increasing depth, the temperature eventually rising so high that rocks melt (and occasionally remerge at the surface in volcanic eruptions).
The gulf's environmental context also promoted oil formation. The ancient body was largely cut off from the diluting influences of the wider global sea, concentrating the nutrients and mud.
''It's always been restricted,'' said Dr. Galloway of the University of Texas. ''One reason it works as a major world-class resource is that it's been mostly isolated from the world's oceans.''
Restrictions on watery flows turn out to have played starring roles in determining where oil formed, scientists say. The Tethys Sea -- an ancient ocean that girded the equator in the Cretaceous period, some 100 million years ago, in the heyday of the dinosaurs -- became a sprawling factory.
Its most productive regions centered on shorelines, coastal regions and shallow seas, said Dr. Stow of Heriot-Watt University, whose new book describes the secret life of the Tethys. He identified ''broad shelf areas'' as some of the best ''factories for biogenic proliferation.'' When the Tethys mostly closed up (its remnants include the Aral, Black, Caspian and Mediterranean Seas), its fertile southern shores formed the dozen or so nations of the Middle East that produce two-thirds of the world's oil.
Dr. Stow called their wealth ''an accident of geology.''
A similar accident took place when Africa and South America slowly pulled apart in the Cretaceous period, forming the narrow beginnings of the South Atlantic. Big rivers poured in nutrients. A biological frenzy on the western shores of the narrow ocean ended up forming the vast oil fields now being discovered and developed off Brazil in deep water.
In June, Petrobras, the Brazilian state oil company, unveiled a $224 billion, five-year investment plan to tap deepwater fields and double its petroleum output.
Many countries and oil companies are now racing to exploit the geological happenstance of deep coastal waters. Hot spots include offshore areas of Angola, Azerbaijan, Congo, Cuba, Egypt, Libya and Tanzania, while countries like Canada and Norway, which have long pursued offshore drilling, are pushing ahead with new plans. Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm, estimates that global deepwater extraction could roughly double by 2015, the output rivaling what Saudi Arabia produces on land.
''It's not about dinosaurs,'' said Kenneth E. Peters, a petroleum geochemist at Stanford University. ''Any kind of organic material can contribute, yes. But if you look at the food chain, they're way at the top. It's the little guys that matter.''
Correction: 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2010, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Tuesday about the microscopic origins of oil, in quoting a 1913 magazine article based on the premise that oil came from dinosaurs, misspelled the name of a species of stegosaurus. It is ungulatus, not ugulatus.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: From Microbes to Crude: Most of the world's oil arose from the decomposition of billions of microscopic organisms that once flourished at the ocean surface and whose remains became buried below ancient seabeds. (Sources: ''Vanished Ocean'' by Dorrik Stow
''Understanding Earth'' by John Grotzinger, et al.
Ron Blakey, Northern Arizona University Geology) (GRAPHICS BY JONATHAN CORUM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
DRAWINGS: BUILDING BLOCKS: Microscopic one-celled creatures known as diatoms are thought to be the source of a vast majority of the world's oil. (DRAWING BY DAVE GREEN) (D1)
 ORGANIC RAIN: Single-celled diatoms like these proliferate by the billions in surface waters. As they die, they settle in a thick biologic sludge on the seabed, where they form sedimentary rock and, later, oil. (DRAWING BY KALLISTA IMAGES/GETTY IMAGES) (D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL SPILLS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); CHILDREN (75%); OCEANOGRAPHY (72%); GAS STATIONS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (67%); WIND ENERGY (63%); HISTORY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHERN ARIZONA UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010



69 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2010

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Teaching 'The Great Gatsby' With The New York Times

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO and SHANNON DOYNE


HIGHLIGHT: Times articles and Learning Network lesson plans to complement the teaching of Fitzgerald&#8217;s great novel. 

 BODY:
 Update | April 25, 2013 We now have an all-new version of this post, updated for the new movie with teaching ideas as well as both the resources below and many new ones. Find it here. 
A few years ago, Adam Cohen noted on the Opinion page that Jay Gatsby was at the top of a list of the 100 best fictional characters since 1900. He went on to discuss how and why Gatsby - the "cynical idealist, who embodies America in all its messy glory" - is still relevant, perhaps more than ever. 
Do your students still relate to Gatsby? Do they recognize America and themselves in his drive for self-improvement, his penchant for self-invention, his devotion to self-discipline? Do they too keep their eyes on the green light at the end of the dock? 
We offer these resources on, and related to, F. Scott Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby" hoping they might help your students appreciate Mr. Nobody from Nowhere and hear the money in Daisy's voice. 
 Lesson Plans 

        
The Gift of Gatsby: Reading 'The Great Gatsby' in Urban Classrooms
        
I Dreamed a Dream in Time Gone By
        
A Personal Journey: Reflecting on One's Personal Experiences with Class
        
Social Motion: Examining Social Mobility Through Personal Interviews
        
For Richer or For Poorer
        
Class Actions: Exploring the Determination and Impact of Class in American Society
        
Over-the-Counter Culture: Learning About How Consumerism Reflects Class
        
What a Character! Comparing Literary Adaptations
        
Girl Power!?: Examining the Role of Gender in American Politics and Society
        
Search Me (Not): Developing Profiles of Literary and Historical Figures by Imagining Their Web Searches
 Student Crossword Puzzles 

        
The Roaring '20s
        
Money
        
Literary Terms
        
Great Books and Authors
        
Expressions of Love
 Times Topics 

        
F. Scott Fitzgerald
        
Prohibition Era (1920-1933)
        
Jazz
        
Bootlegging
 Resources From NYTimes.com 
 From the Archives:

        
Scott Fitzgerald Looks Into Middle Age
Original 1925 Times review of "The Great Gatsby" (PDF).
        
Scott Fitzgerald, Author, Dies at 44
The Times's obituary on F. Scott Fitzgerald (1940).
        
Gatsby, 35 Years Later
Article on "the belated fame of 'Gatsby'" (1960).
        
The Best Gatsby
Article on the publication of the handwritten manuscript of the novel (1975).
 On Class and Wealth: 

        
What Happens to the American Dream in a Recession?
2009 article in which pollsters for The New York Times and CBS News set out to answer that question. 
        
When the Rich-Poor Gap Widens, "Gatsby" Becomes a Guidebook
Business article on how "Gatsby" illustrates the gap between rich and poor.
        
Class and the American Dream
Editorial on socio-economic disparities in the U.S. population.
        
In Fiction, a Long History of Fixation on the Social Gap
Article on the representation of socio-economic class in popular culture and fiction, including "Gatsby."
        
It Didn't End Well Last Time
Editorial comparing the wealth disparities of the Roaring Twenties and the early part of the 21st century.
 On "Gatsby" Characters: 

        
My Father, I Presume
Personal essay from the Times Magazine on a man reminiscent of Jay Gatsby.
        
Jingo Belle
Times Magazine article on the concept of the "American Beauty," including Daisy Buchanan.
        
American Pseudo
Article on the concept of the self-made (and fradulent) personality type in American culture as represented in the Anthony Minghella film "The Talented Mr. Ripley," which is compared to "Gatsby" and its characters.
        
Crime Story
Article on the murder of gambler Herman Rosenthal and the role of Arnold Rothstein, believed to be a model for Meyer Wolfsheim; paints a picture of crime in New York in the early 1900s.
        
Jay, Daisy, Nick and Cassie
Review of Danielle Ganek's novel "The Summer We Read Gatsby."

On the Novel's Setting: 

        
Mansion Said to Have Inspired 'Gatsby' Is To Be Razed
        
Eyeing the Unreal Estate of Gatsby Esq.
A journey to F. Scott Fitzgerald's fictional East and West Eggs, via the Long Island Rail Road and the Great Gatsby Boat Tour.
        
Amid Family's Quarrels, a Home Worthy of Gatsby Begins to Crumble
Article on the home believed to be the model for Jay Gatsby's house.
        
Hamptons Serenade
Article comparing the wealthy Hamptons of today with Fitzgerald's Long Island, as depicted in "Gatsby."
        
For Writers, Plenty of Inspiration
Article on the many works of fiction that are set on Long Island, or written by its inhabitants.
        
Shadows Inside a Suburban Bubble
Article on Great Neck, L.I., and how it has been depicted by Fitzgerald and others.
        
Scott Fitzgerald and L.I. of 'Gatsby' Era
Article on the Fitzgeralds' home and their life on Long Island.
 On the Fitzgeralds: 

        
A Flapper Who Called Great Neck Her Home
Article on Zelda Fitzgerald and her creative work.
        
Scott and Zelda: Their Style Lives
Article on the Fitzgeralds, written by their granddaughter.
        
Seeing Genius Between the Dashes
Article on Fitzgerald's literary style.
        
Reading: F. Scott Fitzgerald
Audio recording of Fitzgerald reading from John Masefield's 'On Growing Old,' John Keats's 'Ode to a Nightingale,' and Shakespeare's 'Othello.'

On Adaptations: 

        
They've Turned 'Gatsby' to Goo
1974 Books section article on the adaptation from that year.
        
A Lavish 'Gatsby" Loses Book's Spirit
Movie review of the 1974 adaptation.
        
The Endless Infatuation With Getting 'Gatsby' Right
Article on the difficulty of translating "Gatsby" to the screen, on the occasion of the 2001 A&E film version.
        
A Novel 'Gatsby,' Stamina Required
Review of "Gatz," a word-for-word presentation of the entire novel, deemed by Times theater critic Ben Brantley "one of the most exciting and improbable accomplishments in theater in recent years."
        
The Book Review: Inside the List
Short notice about the video game based on "Gatsby."

        
50 Years of 'To Kill a Mockingbird'
        
J.D. Salinger and 'The Catcher in the Rye'
        
Teaching 'Death of a Salesman' With The New York Times
        
Teaching Twain and 'Huckleberry Finn' With The New York Times
        
10 Ways to Use The New York Times for Teaching Literature

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISTORY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (69%) American dream; American literature; classic lit; Fitzgerald; Gatsby; great lit; Literature; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Summer Special; Teaching Topics

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013



70 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Shares Slip on Lower Home Sales and Flat Spending

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks fell on Tuesday, pulling the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down from a 10-week high, as weaker-than-estimated data on home sales, factory orders and consumer spending cast doubt on the economic recovery.
Procter & Gamble slid 3.4 percent. Dow Chemical dropped 10 percent after its earnings missed estimates. Losses were limited as Pfizer rose 5.6 percent to lead a rally in health companies after its earnings beat estimates. Energy shares gained as oil rose $1.21 to settle at $82.55 a barrel. 
After two days of gains, the S.& P. 500 slipped 5.40 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,120.46. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 38 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 10,636.38. The Nasdaq composite index lost 11.84 points, or 0.5 percent, finishing at 2,283.52.
''There's a lot of uncertainty on the part of investors because they see economic reports coming in a bit weaker than earlier this year,'' said Robert Pavlik, chief market strategist at Banyan Partners in New York. ''We're still on a path to recovery, but it's going to be a very slow-growth recovery.''
Benchmark indexes opened lower after Commerce Department data showed that consumer spending and personal incomes in the United States were unexpectedly unchanged in June, signaling that a lack of jobs was hurting the biggest part of the economy.
Stocks extended losses after the National Association of Realtors' index of pending home resales dropped 2.6 percent from the previous month. Economists projected a 4 percent gain, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The Commerce Department said orders placed with factories declined 1.2 percent in June. A survey of economists projected a 0.5 percent decline.
''A flat to sluggish economy is what we are seeing,'' said Barry R. James, president of James Investment Research in Alpha, Ohio. ''The consumer is pulling back.'' Mr. James expects ''another wash-out in stock prices,'' probably before the end of the year.
Federal Reserve policy makers have signaled that they probably will not provide more stimulus at their Aug. 10 meeting and will wait to see if signs of weaker economic growth persist. The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told lawmakers in South Carolina on Monday that consumer spending was ''likely to pick up'' amid a moderate expansion.
Procter & Gamble dropped $2.12, to $59.94 after reporting fiscal fourth-quarter profit of 71 cents a share, trailing the average analyst estimate of 73 cents in a Bloomberg survey. Profit excluding some items will be as much as $1.01 a share in the first quarter, the company forecast, compared with the $1.05 average analyst estimate.
Dow Chemical dropped $2.83 to finish at $25.50. Second-quarter net income was $651 million, or 50 cents a share, in contrast to a net loss of $344 million, or 47 cents, a year earlier, Dow said. Profit excluding some items was 54 cents, compared with the 57-cent average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Home Depot retreated 67 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $28.45, and the home builder the Pulte Group fell 55 cents, or 6.1 percent, to $8.43. A gauge of home builders across S.& P. indexes tumbled 3.7 percent.
''Today Dow is a disappointment, and Procter & Gamble, but on the whole you have to be very encouraged,'' said Henry B. Smith, chief investment officer at Haverford Trust in Radnor, Pa. ''When you factor in valuations down in the 12-to-13-times range in a low-inflation, low-interest-rate environment, it makes equities look very attractive.''
Pfizer climbed 86 cents, to close at $16.34. It reported second-quarter adjusted earnings of 62 cents a share. The average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey was 52 cents a share.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 15/32 to 105. The yield fell to 2.91, from 2.96 late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (70%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); PFIZER INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (58%); DOW (LSE) (58%); 4850 (TSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (70%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (70%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



71 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: MasterCard Beats Expectations, but Its Forecast Is Guarded

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
MasterCard, the credit and debit card payment processor, posted a stronger-than-expected second-quarter profit on Tuesday as it cut costs and consumers slowly resumed spending. 
But the company cautioned the economic outlook was hazy.
MasterCard said consumers in the United States spent less on luxury items in recent months but more on travel categories like hotels and airlines.
The company's cross-border volumes, a measure of consumers using their cards abroad, increased 15.2 percent in the second quarter compared with a year earlier.
In the United States, ''conflicting signals make it difficult to determine if we have moved to a period of real economic recovery,'' MasterCard's chief executive, Ajay Banga, told investors.
MasterCard's chief financial officer, Martina Hund-Mejean,said American consumers were likely to ''draw back and not spend as much'' until unemployment and foreclosure trends ''are moving in a more positive way.'' Regulatory changes could also cloud the profit outlook, executives said.
American consumers spent about as much on their MasterCards in the second quarter as they did in the same quarter last year; customers outside the United States spent more.
MasterCard's domestic processing business was hurt by the loss of the debit-processing business of four large banks in the last two years. The company will stop feeling the impact of those lost contracts by the end of 2010, Ms. Hund-Mejean said.
The number of transactions that MasterCard processed in the second quarter was about unchanged from a year earlier, but would have grown about 10 percent excluding the impact of the lost contracts, she said.
There were promising signs from customer spending. For example, businesses and their corporate cardholders are willing to spend money again on travel, Ms. Hund-Mejean said.
''The quarter was good, not great,'' said Mayank Tandon, an analyst at the boutique investment bank Signal Hill. ''The payment volume trends were solid, not spectacular, and a little weaker than Visa's, he said. ''Clearly, the economy's not out of the woods, the economic data has been very conflicting, and it's fair for them to be cautious.''
MasterCard reported second-quarter net income of $458 million, or $3.49 a share, up from $349 million, or $2.67 a share, a year earlier.
Analysts on average had expected $3.33 a share, according to Thomson Reuters. Shares of MasterCard were down $1.61, closing at $200.91 on the New York Stock Exchange, but were up 43 cents in after-hours trading.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MasterCard said cost cuts and increased consumer spending on travel led to its strong results. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); DEBIT CARDS (89%); TRENDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); FORECLOSURE (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); SECURITIES TRADING (63%)

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (93%); VISA INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (93%); V (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



72 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Wringing Art Out of the Rubble in Detroit

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The latest must-go event in this gritty, left-behind city -- where D.J.'s flourish among ruins, trespassing in tumbledown buildings is part of a night out, and even garage rock is bare-bones -- centers on soup.
Soup, as it's known, is a monthly gathering, held above the MexicanTown Bakery in southwestern Detroit, where guests pay $5 for a homemade bowlful, salad (locally grown, to be sure) and dessert, and sit at tables made of doors laid over milk crates, listening as compatriots propose projects. Creating a pocket park, organizing an artists directory and devising a surveillance-camera video montage were all on this month's agenda. The guests vote, and the idea deemed most deserving gets the Soup dollars -- a neat little way to wiki-finance creativity. Soup, which started seven months ago, has been growing steadily. The last one, on Sunday, was the largest yet. 
''It was so big that we were running around collecting doors'' before the meal, Kate Daughdrill, a founder, said. Ms. Daughdrill, 25, an artist, graduate student and waitress, built the voting booth for Soup; she and her co-founder, Jessica Hernandez, whose family owns the bakery, hope to make the loft where it's held into a permanent creative space. Building a community around Soup, Ms. Daughdrill said, is ''part of my art.''
Detroit is plagued by all the urban problems that make it fodder for big-picture editorializing and cop shows. Its long-dwindling population and landscape of abandoned buildings have made it a singular -- or perhaps prophetic -- case study in Rust Belt decline. But its particular brand of civic and economic decay has also drawn something unexpected: a small but well-publicized movement of artists and other creative types trying to wring something out of the rubble.
Maker Faire, the California festival for tinkerers and conceptualists, made its Detroit debut -- albeit in nearby Dearborn -- last weekend; TEDx, a brainstorming conference will arrive in September; and Matthew Barney will perform after that. Banksy has already been. Two weeks ago Detroit hired a film, culture and special-events liaison to occupy a new position in the office of Mayor Dave Bing. The city that birthed the assembly-line age is now cultivating a slew of handmade salvagers, and it has not gone unnoticed.
''There's an excitement here,'' said Dale Dougherty, editor and publisher of Make magazine, which spawned Maker Faire. ''There's a sense that it's a frontier again, that it's open, that you can do things without a lot of people telling you, 'No, you can't do that.' '' Maker Faire follows that ethos; it drew over 22,000 people for demonstrations of wind-powered cars and fire-spewing bicycles to the parking lot of the Henry Ford Museum.
Detroit hardly needs encouragement to do-it-yourself; it has a lineage of makers.
Scott Hocking, an artist who creates works out of materials salvaged from the many abandoned buildings here, said that the D.I.Y. culture is ''in our DNA.''
His latest piece, ''Garden of the Gods,'' is illegally installed on the roof of the massive, and massively derelict, Packard auto plant, which also recently housed a Banksy image.
''I'm really interested in the idea of our relics,'' Mr. Hocking said. He has collected supplies from a forsaken school warehouse, binders and toys twisted by a fire, and used televisions found in the Packard plant to create a vista that resembles modern Roman ruins. Symbolism is a large part of what the new Detroit runs on.
Symbolism and connection: Mr. Hocking, 35, a longtime Detroiter, has attended Soup, as has Jerry Paffendorf, a newly arrived resident who quickly built himself a niche. Mr. Paffendorf, 28, moved to Detroit from San Francisco by way of Brooklyn last spring, with an expertise in software design and a side of techno-savvy wit. He is behind a project called Loveland, a ''micro real estate'' enterprise that sells parcels of Detroit that he owns by the square inch for $1 a piece. Mr. Paffendorf bought 3,150 square feet of land for $500 when he arrived; ''inchvestors'' get a plot in a part of town that might not be well trod otherwise. Proceeds go to organizations that address Detroit's many problems.
''The inches become like little shares in the city,'' Mr. Paffendorf said. ''Even such a lightweight form of ownership has a really cool psychological effect. Even if they bought the inches on a whim, it would bring people into the city a little bit more.''
That invitation to appreciate the city, instead of bemoan it, is also behind some of Detroit's best-known renewals, like the Heidelberg Project, which turns houses into found-object sculptures, and the neighborhood collaboration of Mitch and Gina, as the artist Mitch Cope and the architect Gina Reichert are known around town. They were among the first to get attention for their creative development, buying up houses for art and gardens.
Even during a few days spent here, it is obvious how tight and welcoming the community is. A guy like Kevin Putalik can arrive alone from Montana with an interest in urban agriculture -- a booming part of life in Detroit, where grocery stores are scarce -- and within three weeks find himself making sausage at a party in someone's home. ''It's the land of opportunity,'' said Mr. Putalik, 28, who described himself as ''funemployed,'' as he rinsed casings at the sink.
The party's host, Brian Merkel, 25, is an arriviste from Portland, Ore.; he's been here since October. ''I moved here blindly,'' Mr. Merkel said. ''I was an artist in Portland and I became more interested in food. I decided that when I moved here I would be a butcher. Within the first two weeks we had a charcuterie club.'' People move to Detroit, he said, ''because they have a sense of purpose.''
That is true on a stretch of Farnsworth Street that has been reclaimed by artists and activists, a leafy block in eastern Detroit surrounded by severe blight. The Yes Farm, a communal building with a stage and a studio, beckons on a corner, even if it doesn't always have lights inside. Pickup soccer games happen on the empty lots at dusk. On a weekday evening Dutch artists in the middle of a two-month residency offered a talk on the sidewalk along with homemade fruit tarts.
But Detroit is far from idyllic. Jeff Sturges, who lives on Farnsworth Street and helps run the Fab Lab, a design shop in a trailer, pointed to a scar near his mouth, from an attempted holdup. ''It's an extreme city,'' said Mr. Sturges, 33, an architect by training who moved here in September from the South Bronx. ''There are some days where I get up and say, 'What am I doing to myself?' '' But, he quickly added, mostly he is pleased to be here. He recently started a hacker space, a collective for technology and art projects, one of a handful to open around Detroit within the last year.
Still, the number of people who have this creative do-gooder verve is small. The largest Soup only had 120 guests. ''You can't change a city of 800,000 with 200 people,'' said Phil Cooley, an owner of the popular Slows Bar BQ in Detroit. ''There's so much work to do.''
That includes diversifying: a largely white creative class stands out in a largely black city; integration remains rare. Some worried about the image of the city. ''People think it's a blank canvas; it's not,'' said Corine Vermeulen, 33, a Dutch artist who has documented Detroit's community farms.
Work, though, is what this D.I.Y. city has not shied away from. In June a group including Mr. Paffendorf of Loveland spent $1,000 for two abandoned houses across from the vacant Michigan Central Station, a symbol of Detroit's decline, and, along with the Packard plant, a must-stop on any hardscrabble tour. They renamed the buildings -- shells filled with debris and a few squatters -- Imagination Station and hope to transform them into an artists' enclave and green space. There wasn't much to see yet, but Mr. Paffendorf offered a tour. ''Welcome home,'' he said, pushing open the battered door, with a hole where the lock should be.
The next day he and his girlfriend and partner, Mary Lorene Carter, were at Maker Faire, sitting behind a table covered in sod, publicizing Loveland. They sold 70 inches of Detroit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Turning Detroit's detritus to art: ''Garden of the Gods'' is an installation at the derelict Packard auto plant in Detroit by Scott Hocking, who says, ''I'm really interested in the idea of our relics.''
Jerry Paffendorf, behind fence, is one of several people who bought these Detroit houses and hopes to turn them into an artists' enclave and green space. (C1)
Clockwise from above: Chris Hackett, a Brooklyn artist, recently bought a house in southwest Detroit. Mary Lorene Carter, Jerry Paffendorf, center, and Alan Languirand of the Loveland micro real estate project
 objects used by Scott Hocking, who turns detritus into art. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BAKERIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); PUBLISHING (69%); MAYORS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



73 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: The Senate's Important Lunch Date

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. LUGAR. 
Richard G. Lugar is a Republican senator from Indiana.

 BODY:
Washington
WITH federal child nutrition programs due to expire Sept. 30, the Senate should approve reauthorization legislation this week, before the monthlong Congressional recess.
The bill was unanimously approved by the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee in March, and it has no significant opposition. It has simply been a victim of the crowded calendar of the Senate. But if we don't pass the bill immediately, we will imperil programs that have proved vital to our youth, families and schools for decades, and that are especially important during this time of economic stress.
Since the recession began in late 2007, the use of federal free and reduced-price school lunches has increased by 13.7 percent. Twenty-one million children -- roughly two-thirds of the students eating school lunches -- benefit from the program. 
For many of these children, school lunches represent the bulk of the nutrition they receive during the day, and it is imperative that there are no gaps in providing these meals. The bill would also cut out a lot of red tape in the filing process, ensuring that more families and schools can participate. And it would increase the scope of the afterschool meal program that currently operates in only 13 states.
Research shows that food insecurity and hunger rise during the summer, when children don't have regular access to school meals. The bill would continue to enlarge programs, operated through organizations like local recreation departments, that help feed young people when schools aren't in session.
Year-round child nutrition programs, on top of improving children's health and teaching them to eat better, are critical to academic success. The school breakfast program has been directly linked to gains in math and reading scores, attendance and behavior, and speed and memory on cognitive tests.
By passing the legislation, we would expand access to the supplemental nutrition program that makes certain that low-income women, infants and children are provided healthy foods, information on eating well and referrals to health care. The supplemental program already helps almost half of all infants and about one-quarter of all children ages 1 to 4 in the United States; this legislation would provide millions of dollars worth of further support.
The new bill would also make great strides in reducing junk food in schools and improving the nutritional quality of meals. Nearly one-third of our children are either overweight or obese, which is telling evidence of greater social problems. Indeed, it's become a national security issue -- 27 percent of 17- to 24-year-olds weigh too much to enlist in the military, according to a recent study by a group of retired generals and admirals. This cannot continue.
I have been through many battles on child nutrition, from my days on the Indianapolis Board of School Commissioners to my time as the chairman of the Agriculture Committee. We have debated local and state control, nutritional mandates, the scope of the lunch programs and the unhealthy food choices in school vending machines.
This bill, though, is as close to a moment of consensus as can be achieved. There is bipartisan agreement, thanks to the efforts of the Agriculture Committee's Democratic chairwoman, Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, and its ranking Republican member, Saxby Chambliss of Georgia. Our only hurdle is the Senate schedule, which we would do well to surmount this week.
Given our economic climate and tradition of bipartisan support for child nutrition, we should pass this meritorious bill now. It would be a success that both parties can claim.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NUTRITION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (75%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (73%); OBESITY (68%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (63%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (66%) INDIANA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



74 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Rain Suspends Flood Relief In Pakistan

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD; Kevin Drew contributed reporting from Hong Kong, and Alan Cowell from London.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Monsoon rains resumed in this flood-stricken country on Tuesday after a two-day pause, forcing relief work to stop in several northwestern areas and raising fears the high water levels would threaten Pakistan's third biggest dam.
The floods, coming at the start of the monsoon season but already the worst here in 80 years, have thrown into stark relief the limitations of a government burdened with a surfeit of security and economic crises. 
Estimates of the dead and displaced have been steadily growing since the flooding began last week. Unicef said the floodwaters had claimed 1,400 lives and left a million children in need of emergency assistance.
Lt. Gen. Nadeem Ahmed, the head of the national disaster management authority, put the official death toll at 901 at a news conference in the capital, Islamabad, on Tuesday night.
He said that 58,815 houses were damaged by the floods while 905 people received injuries.
General Ahmed said relief activities in some areas could not start because of a lack of resources.
Survivors have complained bitterly about the slow pace of relief efforts, and there have been protests in two districts, Nowshera and Charsadda, in the volatile province of Khyber-Pakhtoonkhwa, formerly the North-West Frontier Province.
The warning about the dam, Warsak, spread panic in the nearby city of Peshawar and its environs.
''If needed, forced evacuation will be started,'' Adnan Khan, a spokesman for the provincial Disaster Management Authority, told The Associated Press. Local news outlets reported that people had fled from three nearby villages.
Days into the disaster, the government is still trying to chart a strategy to provide relief to those affected and summon up international aid and assistance. A special session of the federal cabinet will convene Wednesday to discuss the flood situation, said Babar Awan, the country's law minister.
On Monday, Prime Minister Yusaf Raza Gilani asked the government to approach the United Nations for help in preparing a call to the international community for emergency aid. The United States already has pledged $10 million in relief, the United Nations has offered $10 million and China has pledged $1.5 million, according to the Xinhua state news agency.
Meanwhile, President Asif Ali Zardari began an overseas trip on Monday that started in France and continued Tuesday in Britain.
Local news outlets reported that 150,000 people in Kot Addu, a southern Punjab town, risked displacement as floodwaters threatened to overrun that city and adjoining villages. Officials there asked people on Tuesday to close down the main markets and move to safer locations. Local news networks broadcast images of women and children huddled on trucks and buses as they moved out of the town.
Hundreds of villages in neighboring Dera Ghazi Khan were submerged on Monday night, due to flash floods.
In a statement, the United Nations refugee agency said some of the people displaced by the floods had already been fleeing earlier emergencies. The agency, based in Geneva, said it was procuring 20,000 extra tents and was ''working to reach at least 250,000 of the most vulnerable to provide shelter and other items including blankets, jerry cans, buckets, plastic sheets and kitchen sets.''
''The majority of the flood-hit displaced are crammed into public buildings, including schools and colleges,'' the agency said in a statement. ''Among them are thousands of Afghan refugees and displaced Pakistanis who have suddenly lost their homes for the second time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (92%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); 2010 PAKISTAN FLOODS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); WEATHER (78%); REFUGEES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); CHILDREN (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (57%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



75 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: More Workers Face Pay Cuts, Not Furloughs

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The furloughs that popped up during the recession are being replaced by a highly unusual tactic: actual cuts in pay.
Local and state governments, as well as some companies, are squeezing their employees to work the same amount for less money in cost-saving measures that are often described as a last-ditch effort to avoid layoffs.
A new report on Tuesday showed a slight dip in overall wages and salaries in June, caused partly by employees working fewer hours.
Though average hourly pay is still higher than when the recession began, the new wage rollbacks feed worries that the economy has weakened and could even be at risk of deflation. That is when the prices of goods and assets fall and people withhold spending as they wait for prices to drop further, a familiar idea to those following the recent housing market. 
A period of such slack economic demand produced a lost decade in Japan, and while it is still seen as unlikely here, some policy-making officials at the Federal Reserve recently voiced concern about the possibility because the consequences could be so dire.
Pay cuts are appearing most frequently among state and local governments, which are under extraordinary budget pressures and have often already tried furloughs, i.e., docking pay in exchange for time off. Warning that they will have to lay off people otherwise, many governors and mayors are pressing public employee unions to accept a reduction in salary of a few percentage points, without getting days off in exchange.
At the University of Hawaii, professors have accepted a 6.7 percent cut. Albuquerque has trimmed pay for its 6,000 employees by 1.8 percent on average, and New York's governor, David A. Paterson, has sought a 4 percent wage rollback for most state employees. State troopers in Vermont agreed to a 3 percent cut. In California, teachers in the Capistrano and Pacheco school districts have accepted salary cuts.
''We've seen pay freezes before in the public sector, but pay cuts are something very new to that sector,'' said Gary N. Chaison, an industrial relations professor at Clark University. Outsize pension costs and balanced budget requirements are squeezing many states as tax revenue has come up short.
It is impossible to say how many employers have cut workers' pay, because the government does not keep such statistics. Economists say a modest but growing number of employers have ordered wage cuts, especially in the public sector. In a 2010 survey by the National League of Cities, 51 percent of the cities that responded said they had either cut or frozen salaries of city employees, 22 percent said they had revised union contracts to reduce some pay and benefits, and 19 percent said they had instituted furloughs.
Some businesses are also cutting workers' pay, often to help stay afloat or to eliminate their losses, although a few have seized on the slack labor market and workers' weak bargaining power to cut pay and thereby increase their profits and competitiveness.
Economists note that wages continued to increase in 2008 after the recession began, even adjusted for inflation. But those wages have been flat for the last 18 months, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Mr. Chaison says the latest wave of private-sector pay cuts is reminiscent of those in the early 1980s, when many companies -- especially those with unionized work forces -- cut wages in response to a recession, intensified competition from imports and new low-cost competitors spawned by government-backed deregulation. Now, as then, companies frequently say that compensation for unionized workers, in both wages and benefits, is out of line. For instance, the Westin Hotel in Providence, R.I., after failing to reach a new contract with its main union, has sliced wages 20 percent, saying its previous pay levels were not competitive with those at the city's many nonunion hotels.
Factory owners sometimes warn that they will close or move jobs to lower-cost locales unless workers agree to a pay cut. In its most recent union contract, General Motors is paying new employees $14 an hour, half the rate it pays its long-term workers.
Sub-Zero, which makes refrigerators, freezers and ovens, warned its workers last month that it might close one or more factories in Wisconsin and lay off 500 employees unless they accepted a 20 percent cut in wages and benefits. Management warned that it might transfer those operations to Kentucky or Arizona, saying it needed lower costs because sales were weaker than hoped.
The pain is felt across industries. At the Seattle Symphony, musicians have taken a 5 percent pay cut, while ABF Freight System, a major trucking company, has asked the Teamsters to agree to 15 percent less. The St. Louis Post-Dispatch has lowered pay 6 percent, while Newsday has gotten its staff to accept a 5 to 10 percent pay cut.
While most of the pay cuts seem to hit unionized workers, David Lewin, a professor of management at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has written extensively on employee compensation, says some cuts are also quietly taking place among nonunion employers.
Reed Smith, a firm with 1,500 lawyers, has cut salaries for first-year associates in major cities to $130,000 from $160,000. Warren Hospital, a nonunionized facility in Phillipsburg, N.J., ordered pay cuts of 2 to 4 percent because lower Medicaid reimbursements had squeezed the hospital's finances.
Fast-rising pension and health costs are making benefit costs grow more rapidly than wages, some employers say, and cutting wages is often easier than other ways to pare labor costs. But some workers say these cuts are unfair at a time when corporate profits and employee productivity have risen strongly.
Sometimes unions and their workers cooperate with management on pay cuts, hoping to recoup some wage increases when conditions improve. In Madawaska, Me., 460 unionized workers accepted an 8.5 percent wage cut in May to help keep their paper mill in business.
''Workers, of course, do not like to have their pay cut, but I think that workers' major concern now is, 'Do I have a job?' '' Professor Lewin said. ''If the unemployment rate were lower, we'd see a lot more resentment toward pay cuts.''
But workers sometimes fight back -- particularly if an employer doesn't show signs of distress.
In Albuquerque, where the mayor pushed through pay cuts to bridge a $66 million budget deficit, the largest union of municipal workers is suing, arguing that the mayor's plan should include furloughs.
The mayor, Richard J. Berry, rejected that idea. ''You want to keep people employed. You want to preserve public services. And you don't want to raise taxes,'' he said. ''When you're trying to lower the cost of government while maintaining services, furloughs don't do the trick.''
Albuquerque would have to trim at least 100 jobs without the cuts, he said, which top out at 3.5 percent for employees earning more than $90,000. Those earning under $30,000 will not be affected.
At the Mott's apple juice and sauce plant in Williamson, N.Y., 30 miles east of Rochester, 300 unionized workers have been on strike since May 23 over management's demands for a $1.50-an-hour wage cut, a reduction in company 401(k) contributions and higher employee contributions to health insurance. The strikers are seething over management's demands because the plant has been profitable and Mott's corporate parent, the Dr Pepper Snapple Group, reported record profits last year.
''They keep piling more and more work on us, but they want to pay us less and less,'' said Michele Morgan, a Mott's employee. ''It's a slap in the face.''
Chris Barnes, a company spokesman, said the Mott's employees were overpaid, at $21 an hour, given that the average in the area for food manufacturing workers was $14 an hour. The union disputes those figures.
''Our only objective,'' Mr. Barnes said, ''was to continue to enhance the competitiveness and flexibility of our operations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lynn Fillinger at the Mott's plant in Williamson, N.Y. Workers went on strike on May 23 over demands to cut pay and benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); RECESSION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); STATISTICS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (62%); CITY LIFE (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



76 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: At U. of Iowa, Recruitment Success Has Its Perils

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
IOWA CITY -- Like an airline overselling a flight, the University of Iowa extended admission this year to several thousand more applicants than it could accommodate on campus in this fall's freshman class.
While nearly every university overbooks each year, relying on sophisticated algorithms that predict just how many admitted students will probably go elsewhere, Iowa officials were surprised to learn this spring how far off they were in their math. This fall's freshman class is likely to have more than 400 more students than last year's, an unintended increase of about 10 percent, for a total of just over 4,500.
Though the university considers this a happy accident -- much of the growth has come from outside Iowa, including from schools as far away as China and India, whose graduates typically pay triple the tuition of state residents -- the looming flood of new students has left the university scrambling to figure out where they will sleep, and how to fit them into some of the most popular courses.
In anticipation of the students' arrival, the university has been securing local apartment buildings and temporarily converting open dormitory lounges into private spaces that can accommodate as many as eight beds. 
''It's good-bad,'' said Tom Rocklin, interim vice president for student services, who oversees much of student life outside the classroom. He described a high-level meeting in May where the enrollment figures were disclosed as ''emergency in tone -- not like our flood emergency, but more 'We have to act now.' ''
''You want them here,'' Mr. Rocklin added. ''But we have to house these students. We have to ensure they have the classes they need.''
That Iowa has emerged as one of the nation's more popular public universities this year is a function, in part, of its aggressive marketing in other states and abroad. Its tuition for out-of-state students -- $23,700 this year -- also makes it more affordable than many private colleges, particularly those that have scaled back scholarship offers in an unstable economy.
The University of Minnesota, in Minneapolis, the only Big 10 institution with a lower out-of-state tuition than Iowa's, also saw a jump in out-of-state applicants this year. While Minnesota was more accurate than Iowa in predicting the size of its freshman class this fall, it overshot its target in 2006 by 230 students -- another reminder that admissions often entails as much art as science, particularly in this economic climate.
Wayne Sigler, the longtime director of admissions at Minnesota, likens the task of estimating the right number of admission offers to extend, knowing that many will decline, to that of a captain's steering a large ship.
''The science of it, our projection models, are really helpful so we can get in sight of land,'' Mr. Sigler said. ''Once we reach a critical point, we start inching up to the dock.''
''We don't want to come in too low, because that has severe budget implications,'' he added. ''On the other hand, we don't want to come in too high, because it impacts course availability and spaces in the dorms.''
Iowa definitely came in high this year -- the equivalent of crashing that boat into the pier. While Iowa had intended to increase the size of its freshman class by about 500 -- largely as a way to raise tuition revenue -- its plan was to do so by about 100 students a year. In effect, it met its five-year projection in the first year.
To increase diversity at the university, and to offset state budget cuts with more tuition revenue, Iowa admissions officials traveled this year to China, South Korea and India in search of potential applicants. In recent years, more American universities have drawn full-paying students, many interested in business and engineering, from these countries.
What Iowa did not count on was that so many of the international students who applied for this fall's freshman class (2,200, an increase of 15 percent over last year) would wind up coming (nearly 430 as of now, an increase of 68 percent over last year). Almost 350 incoming students are from China alone.
Over all, one of every 10 members of this year's freshman class at Iowa will hail from outside the United States.
''I want to attend the business college and am interested in marketing,'' a Chinese freshman, Danyang Xu, 18, said in an e-mail from her home in Zhejiang province. ''I am looking forward to parties, proms and having a spare time job,'' said Ms. Xu, who has friends attending Cornell, Rice and the University of Pittsburgh.
Led by Michael Barron, who has long served as Iowa's assistant provost for enrollment management and director of admissions, the university also had a better batting average than it expected in attracting students from cities like Atlanta, Denver and Nashville.
While Iowa had few applicants from those cities in the past, it singled them out this year based on customized data it bought from the College Board. That data used the profile of a typical out-of-state student enrolled at Iowa -- including test scores and family income -- to identify high schools that graduated those with similar backgrounds.
In searching for students in new places, Iowa's past projection models were of limited use. It is hard for a university to predict who might come from Louisville -- to say nothing of Beijing -- if it has never recruited there. Further muddying those enrollment formulas is that Iowa, unlike many private colleges, uses rolling admissions, meaning a student who might be admitted as early as Oct. 1 does not have to give an answer until May 1, a particularly long interval for a university trying to set its freshman class.
Meanwhile, though the number of students graduating from Iowa public high schools this spring declined slightly, nearly 200 more students from the state applied to the University of Iowa this year compared with 2009. (The state requires that all those who meet a certain academic threshold be offered automatic admission.)
Still, in a sign of how the composition of the student body is shifting, Iowa residents will, for the first time this fall, make up a minority of the freshman class -- 45 percent.
The university does not expect to have much trouble adding sections to accommodate the incoming freshmen in popular first-year courses like Rhetoric, which is essentially English 101. Housing all the incoming students, though, has been the biggest challenge. With each freshman entitled to campus housing, several hundred students transferring from community and other colleges will most likely be given beds in newly commissioned, off-campus apartments or renovated dorm lounges.
The college expects anyone in the lounges, where the rent will be $10 a day, to be moved within a few weeks after the start of school, as some freshmen choose to move off campus.
Jacob Berte, 20, who is transferring to Iowa from Iowa Central Community College, in Fort Dodge, said he had already arranged to live in an apartment with two friends from high school. ''That sounds like too many people in one room,'' he said of the lounges.
And yet, as he prepares to study accounting and root for the Hawkeyes, Mr. Berte said he welcomed being on a campus with more students than anticipated.
''It feels like I'm going to be part of something exciting,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 3, 2010, Tuesday 

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the athletic nickname for the University of Iowa. They are the Hawkeyes -- not the Cyclones, which is the nickname of Iowa State University.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The University of Iowa underestimated how many freshmen would be attending.
Michael Barron, the University of Iowa's assistant provost for enrollment management and director of admissions, has succeeded in luring more students. Ashley Ferguson, at rear center, showed prospective students and their families a single-occupancy dorm room last month. (A11)
 Prospective students and their families touring the Iowa Memorial Union on the University of Iowa campus late last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (71%) IOWA, USA (99%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



77 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Pickups Climb As Gas Stays Below $3

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- A year ago, Americans were dumping their pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles by the hundreds of thousands, enticed by government rebates to drive something more fuel-efficient.
But now, with gas still selling for less than $3 a gallon in most of the country, pickup truck sales are showing strong signs of a rebound.
Sales of full-size pickups surged 29 percent in July from July 2009, compared with a 5 percent increase for overall industry sales. The gain is a positive sign for the economy and housing market because the trucks are most popular among businesses and building contractors. Sales of sport utility vehicles were also up significantly, 17 percent over the same period. Light trucks, a category that includes pickups and S.U.V.'s, rose 17.8 percent. 
The Ford Motor Company said on Tuesday that sales of its F-series trucks rose 39 percent last month, to the highest level since March 2008. General Motorsreported a 22 percent increase of its full size pickups, and Chrysler sold 14 percent more of its Dodge Ram.
Many of the truck buyers might normally have traded up a year or two ago, but held off until their job or company was on better footing, said Jessica Caldwell, an industry analyst with Edmunds.com, a Web site that provides vehicle-buying information.
''They were almost taboo for a long time, but there's a willingness of people to buy trucks again,'' Ms. Caldwell said. ''The people that truly need a truck can't really buy anything else.''
Each of the three Detroit automakers reported small increases in total sales from a year ago, when the government's so-called cash for clunkers program began. Toyota and Honda, which were among those that benefited most from the clunkers program, reported slight declines last month.
The increase in truck sales is welcome news for the automakers, which make larger profits from them than from the small cars whose popularity has soared in recent years. It is particularly good for Detroit, which still dominates the pickup truck segment.
No one expects truck sales to climb back to the levels of 2004 and 2005, when Ford sold more than 900,000 F-series in each year. (This year, the company is on pace to sell about 500,000.) But dealers say demand is gradually rising.
''Our long-term fleet customers are buying one and two at a time -- not five or 10 like they used to -- but they're coming back slowly,'' said Neil Schrock, the general sales manager at Sanderson Ford Lincoln Mercury in Glendale, Ariz. ''Every month since January we've gone up, so we feel a lot better about the economy.''
Sanderson sold 59 of the F-series last month, more than all of its sedans and hatchbacks combined. Though Ford is excited about its new subcompact car, the Fiesta, Mr. Schrock said each F-series sale is much better for the dealership's bottom line.
''The Fiesta has no margin at all,'' he said. ''I think we're paying the salesman $100 to deliver it.''
The rise in truck sales and overall demand for new vehicles in July followed a disappointing June that had prompted some concerns about the strength of the economic recovery.
The industry's seasonally adjusted selling rate rose in July to an annualized rate of nearly 12 million vehicles, the highest level since the clunkers program ended last August, according to the Autodata Corporation, which tracks industry sales. The rate was 11.1 million in June and 11.2 million a year earlier.
''Consumers are getting more accustomed to living with uncertainty and making big-ticket item purchases without the dust being fully settled,'' said Jesse Toprak, vice president for industry trends and insights at TrueCar.com, a Web site that tracks automotive sales and pricing. ''We're learning to live with volatility.''
Although Toyota's sales declined 3.2 percent, the company said it was seeing more evidence that it was overcoming the damage done by its big recalls in late 2009 and earlier this year. The percentage of buyers trading in vehicles made by other automakers rose to 57 percent in July after falling below 50 percent since the recalls. The decline had indicated that Toyota was having greater difficulty attracting new customers.
''It's an early indication that more and more consumers are starting to consider the brand again,'' said Robert S. Carter, a group vice president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A.
July signified one year since G.M. emerged from bankruptcy, and company officials pointed to strong growth in its sales as evidence that its turnaround plan was making progress. Excluding the four brands that G.M. has discontinued or sold -- Pontiac, Saturn, Saab and Hummer -- G.M.'s sales were up 24.6 percent from July 2009. In all, G.M.'s sales were up 6 percent.
Two of the remaining brands, Buick and Cadillac, more than doubled their sales from a year ago, recording their highest totals since August 2008.
''Our results aren't tied to just one division, one brand, or one month,'' said Don Johnson, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales operations. ''The focus we have on our four core brands is paying off for us. We're making up for the ones we lost.''
G.M., which is 61 percent owned by the Treasury Department as a result of the emergency loans it received last year, is expected to file for a public stock offering later this month.
Correction: 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2010, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart on Wednesday with an article about automobile sales in July omitted one carmaker from a list of top sellers. Subaru sold 23,893 vehicles in July, up 9.8 percent from the same month last year, giving it a 2.3 percent share of the market -- a better performance than BMW, another top-seller, which sold 23,465 vehicles for a 2.2 percent market share. A corrected chart is at nytimes.com/businessday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ford F-Series
Ford Focus CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); PICKUP TRUCKS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); HOUSING MARKET (71%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010



78 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Where Brooklyn And Queens Meet, A Quiet Parallel To the Gulf Spill

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
The salt marshes are long gone from Newtown Creek, and so are most of the birds and fish. Now, this waterway straddling Brooklyn and Queens is dotted by bulkheads and containment booms meant to keep oil away from the shoreline while underground pumps work around the clock removing petroleum from adjacent land.
Decades in the making and confined to a corner of industrial New York, the oil spills in and along Newtown Creek do not have the drama of disasters like the current one in the Gulf of Mexico and the 1989 Exxon Valdez spill in Alaska.
But long before the gulf crisis riveted the nation, more than a century of unchecked operations and storage by refineries that lined the four-mile-long creek fouled its waters and seeped through 55 acres of land in the vicinity. 
Estimated at 17 million to 30 million gallons -- smaller than the ballpark estimate of up to 200 million gallons released by the Deepwater Horizon well but outstripping the 11 million that poured from the Exxon Valdez -- the combined spills along Newtown Creek have obliterated wildlife, polluted an aquifer, hindered economic development and set off health scares among those who live and work nearby.
''The impact is more subtle than in the gulf,'' said Phillip Musegaas, a lawyer with Riverkeeper, an environmental group that sued Exxon Mobil in 2004 for its role in the contamination. ''The spill is unseen, and it's in an area that was industrialized and already polluted. But the waterway is severely stressed, and it's not a functioning ecosystem anymore.''
Now, after a history of neglect and lawsuits against oil companies like BP and Exxon Mobil over the extent and pace of cleanup efforts, local residents say they have cause for hope: The federal government is proposing to designate the creek a toxic Superfund site, mandating a rigorous cleanup of the water and sediment.
Some residents say the gulf spill is helping to sensitize New Yorkers as never before to the responsibilities borne by oil companies and the risks that people run in living cheek by jowl with toxic contaminants.
''We all joke that we're going to end up with big lumps in our throat so we can afford our rents,'' said Nate Zubal, 29, an interior designer in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, where many residences and businesses sit atop a layer of spilled fuel oils. ''A cleanup is pretty important with so many people living so close.''
The Bloomberg administration supports the Superfund designation for the creek, although it lobbied hard against one for the Gowanus Canal, in Brooklyn, out of fear that it could derail lucrative development projects. (The Environmental Protection Agency prevailed and gave the Gowanus Superfund status in March.)
While the E.P.A. calls Newtown Creek one of the nation's most heavily polluted waterways, oil is hardly the only problem. In samples of the sediment and surface water, the agency has also found sewage from system overflows, as well as pesticides, metals and PCBs from decades of industrial activity.
Officials say that Superfund designation for the creek could come as early as September, opening the way for a thorough federal assessment of the extent of the contamination and the cost and duration of a cleanup.
''The Superfund designation means that this water body will be evaluated in its entirety, which has never happened to date,'' said Angela Carpenter, a branch chief in New York with the E.P.A., which runs the Superfund program.
State officials say the Superfund cleanup could last more than a decade.
Under the program, the E.P.A. requires the parties responsible for contaminating the site to pay to reverse the damage. BP, Exxon Mobil and Chevron are expected to be among the parties enlisted.
The cleanup would deal only with the water and sediment in Newtown Creek, not the contamination underneath the adjacent land in Greenpoint (the Superfund program excludes strictly petroleum cleanups). But environmental and community groups say the designation will help prevent oil from leaching into the water from the land as it has in the past.
''Everyone is excited about getting the job done,'' said Katie Schmid, director of the Newtown Creek Alliance, an advocacy group. ''You need federal oversight of the whole project to ensure effective remediation.''
While the creek itself awaits a cleanup, oil companies are continuing to recover oil from their property in Greenpoint, an effort that began over two decades ago after the Coast Guard first spotted evidence of oil seepage into the creek in 1978. Since 1990, Exxon Mobil, BP and Chevron have removed about 11.1 million gallons of spilled oil, state officials say.
The pace has been too slow for Greenpoint residents, environmental groups and the New York state attorney general's office, which all have lawsuits pending against some or all of the companies for the pollution. (Negotiations are under way to settle suits filed by the state and Riverkeeper against Exxon Mobil.)
BP's role was mostly inherited: Its petroleum storage terminal in Greenpoint was once home to a Mobil refinery whose operations released about five million gallons into the ground, state environmental officials say. In 1969, BP's predecessor, the Amoco Oil Company, bought the 10-acre property. It began a cleanup in 1981 under an agreement with the city, and state officials say about two million gallons now remain to be recovered under the BP property.
The state says that BP is not meeting its schedule for collecting oil from the ground and asked that the company increase its current lineup of nine extraction wells.
Marti D. Powers, a spokeswoman for BP, said the company is adding four wells to meet state requirements, but it is fighting a lawsuit by residents. ''The plaintiffs have to date not identified any spills by BP that have impacted them,'' she said.
The bulk of the overall cleanup work, from the collection of oil to the treatment of contaminated groundwater before it is released into Newtown Creek, has rather fallen to Exxon Mobil.
As the main inheritor of Standard Oil, which had dozens of refineries along the creek by the end of the 19th century, Exxon Mobil owns most of the contaminated land and is responsible for an oil plume that extends under about 300 homes in a residential area of Greenpoint.
Carolina Asirifi, a spokeswoman for Exxon Mobil, said the company's 20 operating recovery wells were pumping as fast as was safely possible -- currently at a rate of about 2,000 gallons of oil and a million gallons of groundwater a day.
''Exxon Mobil has been working extremely hard,'' she said. ''We've made significant progress.''
Residents fear that toxic gases will penetrate their homes from below. A state Department of Environmental Conservation study in 2006 found no oil-related vapors in samples of indoor air, although a comprehensive study of the health consequences of the spills has yet to be carried out.
As the community awaits the Superfund decision and more detailed analysis, the proposed designation has spawned a kind of creek boosterism.
''We're turning the corner,'' said Ted Gruber, chairman of the Long Island City Community Boathouse, whose members often venture into Newtown Creek in canoes. ''People like us are paddling in greater numbers. People are beginning to care.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Newtown Creek, which meets the East River, has been contaminated by a series of oil spills from properties owned by companies including BP, top. (A15)
As part of cleanup efforts, Exxon Mobil and BP are using recovery wells to remove oil from the ground in the Newtown Creek area, where it has polluted the water.
 At an Exxon Mobil cleanup site along the creek, an air separator removes volatile organic compounds from the treated water. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAP: Dozens of oil refineries once sat along Newtown Creek. (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); RIVERS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); SUPERFUND (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (88%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (86%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); LOBBYING (71%); FUEL SPILLS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); WATER QUALITY (65%); LITIGATION (65%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (75%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (75%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



79 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Conde Nast, After Transforming Times Square, Plans a Move to Ground Zero

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Conde Nast's decision in 1996 to move its headquarters, chic magazines and black-clad editors to Times Square proved to be a transformative moment for a still rough-and-tumble district shunned by many New Yorkers.
Reuters, Ernst & Young, ''Good Morning America'' on ABC and millions of tourists soon followed the media company's path, pushing aside the pornographic shops, prostitutes and hustlers who once dominated a neighborhood known as the crossroads of the world. 
Fourteen years later, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is hoping that Conde Nast can work that kind of magic downtown. On Tuesday, the authority signed a tentative deal to move the Conde Nast headquarters to 1 World Trade Center, the 1,776-foot skyscraper now under construction at ground zero. That would make it the building's largest private tenant so far and one with trend-setting cachet to boot.
In the cold, mournful aftermath of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, it was unclear what companies, if any, would move back to that scarred piece of earth. For a long time, it appeared that government agencies were the only likely tenants.
Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban planning at New York University, said the Conde Nast deal could be a turning point, noting that 1 World Trade Center, which will be the city's tallest building, sits across West Street from the newly opened Goldman Sachs headquarters.
Think: Anna Wintour, the imperious editor-in-chief of Conde Nast's Vogue, who inspired the novel and film ''The Devil Wears Prada,'' and Graydon Carter, the bon vivant editor of Vanity Fair, stepping out of black limousines at ground zero.
''We will have the best-paid bankers and best-dressed editors across the street from each other,'' Mr. Moss said. ''What young ambitious person would not want to be downtown now?''
Conde Nast is not the only high-profile tenant now considering 1 World Trade Center, expected to be completed in 2013. Bank of New York is also considering it as one of several sites.
The Port Authority declined to comment on any negotiations with tenants. Stephen Sigmund, a spokesman for the authority, did say, ''There is clearly momentum both in the building of the World Trade Center site and the growing interest from potential tenants.''
Conde Nast's current landlord at 4 Times Square, the Durst real estate family, whose building played an important role in rejuvenating Times Square, is also on the verge of playing a larger role at 1 World Trade Center. On Thursday, the Port Authority's board is expected to grant initial approval to a deal in which the Durst family would take over marketing and leasing the downtown skyscraper and pay $100 million for a 10 percent stake in the project.
After the attack on the trade center, many who had worked there said they had no desire to return. Eliot Spitzer once called it a white elephant. Douglas Durst, who headed the family firm, was one of many opponents.
Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch both turned down entreaties to move to one of the new skyscrapers planned for the site. With no private corporations on the horizon, city, state and federal agencies promised to lease several million square feet. Critics, however, bemoaned the cost of the towers and the foolishness of installing government employees in prime office space.
If the deal is completed, Conde Nast would take up to one million square feet in the 2.6 million-square-foot, $3.3 billion tower sometime in 2014, according to two executives who have been briefed on the agreement. The company and the Port Authority expect to spend the next couple of months working out the details. It was unclear how much the company would pay in rent, but it appears to be trying to replicate its strategy in Times Square by securing below-market leases as a pioneering tenant.
Conde Nast, whose 18 magazines are spread among six buildings, including 4 Times Square, declined to comment, but in a letter to employees on Tuesday morning, it said the move ''would allow us to house all our brands in a single, state-of-the-art headquarters.''
If the lease is signed, it would almost certainly mean that the authority would not have to lease as much, if any, space to state and federal agencies. With Conde Nast as a magnet, the tower would command higher rents from companies.
''This represents a game-changing transformation of Lower Manhattan into a hub for creative industries, not just for financial services,'' said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association. ''It's been almost a decade since 9/11, and clearly people are now looking at this site and this building as one of the most well-located addresses in the region, not just as the site of a national tragedy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY RELOCATIONS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); TERRORISM (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); BK (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



80 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Saving More Than Thought

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
American consumers have been salting away more of their paychecks than initially reported.
A new government report released on Tuesday showed that consumers saved 6.4 percent of their after-tax income in June, and that this savings rate had shot up as high as 8.2 percent in May 2009. Before the recession, the rate had hovered at 1 to 2 percent for many years.
The questions now are whether America's newfound love affair with frugality will continue and whether families' reluctance to spend will hold back economic growth. 
In earlier reports, the government had estimated that families had not changed their spending patterns much in the last few years, despite the economic tumult.
As a result, many economists had worried that a big shock might be coming soon, when consumers finally faced the music and began the painful process of reducing their debt.
So on the one hand, the fact that consumers really have been saving could be taken as very good news.
''The optimistic view is that this means consumers have built up a bit more of a cushion than we thought,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. ''If they're in better financial shape than thought, then maybe they could spend a little bit more freely going forward.''
That is not likely to happen anytime soon, though, he said. ''It's difficult to see consumer spending doing a lot better until we see more job growth,'' Mr. Gault said.
Many other economists agree.
Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said in a speech on Monday that Americans would start spending once they got a healthy increase in their wages or salaries. But it is not clear when that will actually happen.
Private payrolls have shown slow growth all year, and economists are forecasting that the jobs report for July, to be released on Friday, will be similarly disappointing.
''There are signs that hiring will pick up, as growth continues and as companies become more confident,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics. ''Still, I don't think it's going to be an incredibly robust pickup that's big enough to bring unemployment down sharply and put consumers' minds at ease.''
Along with high unemployment, high debt levels continue to discourage consumer spending. American households, though borrowing less, still are paying for their free-spending ways in the credit bubble of the mid-2000s. Their debt levels are far higher than they were in the 1980s and 1990s, when they had less than a dollar of debt for every dollar in disposable income.
At the peak of the housing boom, consumers' liabilities rose above 130 percent of their disposable income. That ratio has been falling ever since the financial crisis, and for the last year has averaged in the mid-120s, according to the Federal Reserve.
''Whatever happens with incomes, deleveraging is still the biggest constraint on spending,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics. But he said ''nobody knows where what the final stopping point for the household leverage rate is.''
Given the June spending data and reports of tumbling consumer confidence in July, many economists say a best case for consumer spending would be an annualized growth rate of 2 to 2.5 percent for the rest of this year. Spending rose at a rate of 1.6 percent in the second quarter and 1.9 percent in the first quarter.
''That's better, but it's still not the 4 percent growth we used to see back when the U.S. consumer was considered the engine of global growth,'' said Paul Ashworth, senior United States economist at Capital Economics.

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Return to Saving: Americans have returned to saving strongly over the last two years, and at higher rates than had been previously estimated, according to newly revised figures from the government. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FAMILY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



81 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: A Market Punishing To Mothers

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Washington
The last three men nominated to the Supreme Court have all been married and, among them, have seven children. The last three women -- Elena Kagan, Sonia Sotomayor and Harriet Miers (who withdrew) -- have all been single and without children.
This little pattern makes the court a good symbol of the American job market. Women and men with similar qualifications -- age, education, experience -- are much more likely to be treated similarly today than in the past. The pay gap between them, while still not zero, has shrunk to just a few percentage points.
Yet once you look beyond the tidy comparisons of supposedly identical men and women, the picture is much less sunny. There are still only 15 Fortune 500 companies with a female chief executive. Men dominate the next rungs of management in most fields, too. Over all, full-time female workers make a whopping 23 percent less on average than full-time male workers.
What's going on? Men and women are not identical, of course. Many more women take time off from work. Many more women work part time at some point in their careers. Many more women can't get to work early or stay late. 
And our economy exacts a terribly steep price for any time away from work -- in both pay and promotions. People often cannot just pick up where they have left off. Entire career paths are closed off. The hit to earnings is permanent.
The fact that the job market has evolved in this way is no accident. It's a result of policy choices. As Jane Waldfogel, a Columbia University professor who studies families and work, says, ''American feminists made a conscious choice to emphasize equal rights and equal opportunities, but not to talk about policies that would address family responsibilities.''
In many ways, the choice was shrewd. The feminist movement has been fabulously successful fighting for antidiscrimination laws that require men and women to be treated equally. These laws have not eliminated the blatant sexism of past decades -- think ''Mad Men'' -- but they have beaten back much of it.
As a result, outright sexism is no longer the main barrier to gender equality. The main barrier is the harsh price most workers pay for pursuing anything other than the old-fashioned career path.
''Women do almost as well as men today,'' Ms. Waldfogel said, ''as long as they don't have children.''
The data make this case. So does the disproportionate number of prominent women who do not have children -- Ms. Kagan, Ms. Sotomayor, Janet Napolitano and Condoleezza Rice, among others. Obviously, many other successful women (including Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg) have children. Through a combination of talent, hard work and good fortune, they have managed to beat the odds.
But that is indeed what they are doing: beating odds stacked against them. Most parents are simply not able to have it all, regardless of where they are on the income spectrum.
A recent study of business school graduates from the University of Chicago found that in the early years after graduating, men and women had ''nearly identical labor incomes and weekly hours worked.'' Men and women also paid a similar career price for taking off or working part time. Women, however, were vastly more likely to do so.
As a result, 15 years after graduation, the men were making about 75 percent more than the women. The study -- done by Marianne Bertrand, Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz -- did find one subgroup of women whose careers resembled those of men: women who had no children and never took time off.
On the other end of the spectrum, low-income women generally do not have a choice between career and family. Many are single parents. Their chances of escaping poverty are hurt by the long-term costs of taking time off after childbirth and having little flexibility in their schedules.
Taking the next step toward workplace equality probably has to start with an acknowledgment that most parents can't have it all -- at least as long as part-time work, flexible schedules and long leaves do so much career damage.
A growing number of parents already seem to have come to this conclusion. That's one reason for the rise in the number of mothers who have dropped out of the labor force. Lacking good part-time job options, more are choosing full-time parenting.
Last year, 40.2 percent of married women with children under 3 years old were outside the labor force, up from a low of 38.6 percent in 1998. The increase, according to a Bureau of Labor Statisticsanalysis, ''occurred across all educational levels and, for most groups, by about the same magnitude.'' By contrast, women without children at home have continued to join the work force in growing numbers.
Unfortunately, this problem isn't one that lends itself to a sweeping policy solution.
There are steps that can help. Universal preschool programs -- like the statewide one in Oklahoma -- would make life easier for many working parents. Paid parental leave policies, like California's modest version, would make a difference, too. With Australia's recent passage of paid leave, the United States has become the only rich country without such a policy. (Giving parents here a full year of leave for each child would cost about $25 billion a year, or less than 0.2 percent of gross domestic product, Ms. Waldfogel says.)
Given fiscal realities, a more realistic immediate idea may be the recent British law giving workers the right to request a switch to a part-time or flexible schedule. Employers can still say no, but the establishment of a formal right seems to have made a difference. So far, about 90 percent of requests have been approved.
Yet policies like these are not enough. In the European countries with much more generous parental leave laws, women remain far behind men on career ladders.
The best hope for making progress against today's gender inequality probably involves some combination of legal and cultural changes, which happens to be the same combination that beat back the old sexism. We'll have to get beyond the Mommy Wars and instead create rewarding career paths even for parents -- fathers, too -- who take months or years off. We'll have to get more creative about part-time and flexible work, too.
If you want a preview, you can look at the few professions in which large numbers of highly skilled women have been able to force change. Obstetrics used to be a field that required doctors to be on duty at all hours. Today, group practices allow obstetricians to share the 3 a.m. deliveries and, in the process, have a life outside of work. Optometry and veterinary medicine have their own versions of this story.
With both government and corporate budgets tight, it's easy to be pessimistic, but I think history argues for optimism. This country doesn't always move quickly or evenly toward equality. Yet it does tend to move in one broad direction.
For almost 200 years, the Supreme Court did not have a single woman on its bench. Sometime later this week, it is likely to have three.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Elena Kagan, Sonia Sotomayor and Harriet Miers were all single and without children when they were nominated to the Supreme Court, in contrast to the previous three male nominees. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS
J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN WORKERS (90%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); WOMEN (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MEN (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); STATISTICS (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (89%); ELENA KAGAN (89%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%); JANET NAPOLITANO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



82 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Stagnated in June as a Weak Job Outlook Lifted Saving

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Consumer spending and personal incomes were flat in June, according to government statistics released on Tuesday, the latest indication that the economy would continue to struggle in the second half of the year.
The Commerce Department figures, which were seasonally adjusted, showed that personal income was steady in June, compared with a slight 0.3 percent rise in May. It was the lowest level this year and the first time in nearly a year that personal incomes have not risen compared with previous months.
Disposable personal income, or income after taxes and expenditures, was also flat, compared with slight increases in May. 
In addition to the slowdown in income and spending, the Commerce Department reported that consumers were putting away more cash.
''It reinforces the general idea that consumers are busy deleveraging and saving money,'' said Dan M. Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak. ''The problem with this type of a situation, where consumers become more concerned with reducing debt and constraining spending, is you have no idea how long it will last,'' he added. ''It could be one month or one year.''
The report shows that consumers are pulling back because of several factors, including a tight job market, stock market volatility and a poor housing market, Chris G. Christopher Jr., IHS Global Insight's senior principal United States economist, said in an interview.
''The underlying story that I seem to be saying over and over is that consumers are not feeling good enough to start spending on things that count, such as durables and houses, because the unemployment level is basically so high,'' Mr. Christopher said. ''And firms don't feel the need to hire.''
''These two things are feeding off of each other,'' he said. ''Someone has to make a break for it. Right now the consumer is actually retrenching so businesses are not going to have the urge to rehire. It's a Catch-22 situation.''
Personal expenditures were flat, after increasing 0.1 percent in May and reversing a decline of 0.1 percent in April. The last time that figure was lower was in September 2009.
Consumer spending serves as a closely watched indicator for the pace of the recovery, and it accounts for most of the economic activity in the United States.
The flat reading on consumer spending was weaker than analysts had estimated.
''The bottom line is the expansion in consumer spending over the past year has been moderate, and for lots of reasons it should be constrained going forward, too,'' said Steven Wieting, Citigroup's United States economist.
''We are not in a really robust recovery that has resulted in large job gains,'' he added.
Economists are anticipating an unemployment report on Friday that will show a slight rise to 9.6 percent in the unemployment rate from 9.5 percent.
In addition to releasing consumer spending figures, the Commerce Department reported that factory orders declined 1.2 percent in June to a seasonally adjusted $406.4 billion. Analysts expected a smaller drop. The agency also revised May's decline to a sharper 1.8 percent instead of 1.4 percent.
And the National Association of Realtors said that the number of people who had signed contracts to buy homes dropped in June. The group said that its seasonally adjusted index of pending home sales declined 2.6 percent in June to a reading of 75.7. The association also slightly lowered May's reading to 77.7. Economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected the June index to increase to 78.1.
The decline reflected the reliance of the housing market on the $8,000 tax credit for buyers who signed contracts before April 30, in pulling demand forward, economists said.
''We expect activity to eventually settle down somewhere between the inflated data spurred by the tax credit and the depressed results that are now being reported in the immediate aftermath of the expiration of the credit,'' said Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR Inc., in a research note.
Economists said the picture on personal incomes had already been flagged in the report last week for gross domestic product, which set growth at 2.4 percent in the second quarter, down from 3.7 percent in the previous quarter. Consumer spending was weaker than previously thought.
The recovery of the job market is pivotal to whether consumer confidence will return and the public, in turn, will spend more.
''Our own view is that the labor market recovery will be a grudging one, that consumers will enjoy only modest gains in wages and salaries for some time, and that consumer spending growth will therefore be moderate at best,'' Mr. Shapiro said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Spending, an indicator of the pace of the recovery, was flat and below analysts' estimates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVIS TURNER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Factory Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



83 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: U.S. REPORT SAYS OIL THAT REMAINS IS SCANT NEW RISK

BYLINE: By JUSTIN GILLIS; Clifford Krauss contributed reporting from Houston, and Campbell Robertson from New Orleans.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The government is expected to announce on Wednesday that three-quarters of the oil from the Deepwater Horizon leak has already evaporated, dispersed, been captured or otherwise eliminated -- and that much of the rest is so diluted that it does not seem to pose much additional risk of harm.
A government report finds that about 26 percent of the oil released from BP's runaway well is still in the water or onshore in a form that could, in principle, cause new problems. But most is light sheen at the ocean surface or in a dispersed form below the surface, and federal scientists believe that it is breaking down rapidly in both places.
On Tuesday, BP began pumping drilling mud into the well in an attempt to seal it for good. Since the flow of oil was stopped with a cap on July 15, people on the Gulf Coast have been wondering if another shoe was going to drop -- a huge underwater glob of oil emerging to damage more shorelines, for instance. 
Assuming that the government's calculations stand scrutiny, that looks increasingly unlikely. ''There's absolutely no evidence that there's any significant concentration of oil that's out there that we haven't accounted for,'' said Jane Lubchenco, head of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the lead agency in producing the new report.
She emphasized, however, that the government remained concerned about the ecological damage that has already occurred and the potential for more, and said it would continue monitoring the gulf.
''I think we don't know yet the full impact of this spill on the ecosystem or the people of the gulf,'' Dr. Lubchenco said.
Among the biggest unanswered questions, she said, is how much damage the oil has done to the eggs and larvae of organisms like fish, crabs and shrimp. That may not become clear for a year or longer, as new generations of those creatures come to maturity.
Thousands of birds and other animals are known to have been damaged or killed by the spill, a relatively modest toll given the scale of some other oil disasters that killed millions of animals. Efforts are still under way in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida to clean up more than 600 miles of oiled shoreline. The government and BP collected 35,818 tons of oily debris from shorelines through Sunday.
It remains to be seen whether subtle, long-lasting environmental damage from the spill will be found, as has been the case after other large oil spills.
The report, which is to be unveiled on Wednesday morning, is a result of an extensive effort by federal scientists, with outside help, to add up the total volume of oil released and to figure out where it went.
The lead agency behind the report, the oceanic and atmospheric administration, played down the size of the spill in the early days, and the Obama administration was ultimately forced to appoint a scientific panel that came up with far higher estimates of the flow rate from the well. Whether the new report will withstand critical scrutiny is uncertain; advocacy groups and most outside scientists had not learned of it on Tuesday.
The government announced early this week that the total oil release, from the time the Deepwater Horizon exploded on April 20 until the well was effectively capped, was 4.9 million barrels, plus or minus 10 percent. That estimate makes the Deepwater Horizon disaster the largest marine spill in history. It is surpassed on land by a 1910 spill in the California desert.
As the scientists did their calculations, they were able to rely on direct measurements of the fate of some of the oil that spewed from the broken well. For example, BP and its contractors succeeded in capturing about 17 percent of it with various containment mechanisms, the report says.
The outcome for much of the oil could not be directly measured, but had to be estimated using protocols that were scrutinized by scientists inside and outside the government, Dr. Lubchenco said.
The report calculates, for example, that about 25 percent of the chemicals in the oil evaporated at the surface or dissolved into seawater in the same way that sugar dissolves in tea. (The government appears to have settled on a conservative number for that estimate, with the scientific literature saying that as much as 40 percent of the oil from a spill can disappear in this way.)
The aggressive response mounted by BP and the government -- the largest in history, ultimately involving more than 5,000 vessels -- also played a role in getting rid of the oil, the report says. Fully 5 percent of the oil was burned at the surface, it estimates, while 3 percent was skimmed and 8 percent was broken up into tiny droplets using chemical dispersants. Another 16 percent dispersed naturally as the oil shot out of the well at high speed.
All told, the report calculates that about 74 percent of the oil has been effectively dealt with by capture, burning, skimming, evaporation, dissolution or dispersion. Much of the dissolved and dispersed oil can be expected to break down in the environment, though federal scientists are still working to establish the precise rate at which that is happening.
''I think we are fortunate in this situation that the rates of degradation in the gulf ecosystem are quite high,'' Dr. Lubchenco said.
The remaining 26 percent of the oil ''is on or just below the surface as light sheen or weathered tar balls, has washed ashore or been collected from the shore, or is buried in sand and sediments,'' the report says.
Some fishermen in Louisiana are worried about the buried oil, fearing that storms could stir it up and coat vital shrimp or oyster grounds, a possibility the government has not ruled out.
Testing of fish has shown little cause for worry so far, and fishing grounds in the gulf are being reopened at a brisk clip. At one point the government had closed 36 percent of federal gulf waters to fishing, but that figure is now down to 24 percent and is expected to drop further in coming weeks.
States are also reopening fishing grounds near their coasts. The big economic question now is whether the American public is ready to buy gulf seafood again.
The new government report comes as BP engineers began pumping heavy drilling mud into the stricken well on Tuesday, with the hope of achieving a permanent seal or at least revealing critical clues about how to kill the well before the end of the month.
Through the afternoon, in what is known as a static kill, engineers pumped mud weighing about 13.2 pounds per gallon at slow speeds from a surface vessel through a pipe into the blowout preventer on top of the well. If all goes well, cement may be applied over the next few days. But officials said they could be confident the well was plugged only when one of two relief wells now being drilled was completed, allowing the well to be completely sealed with cement.
''The static kill will increase the probability that the relief well will work,'' Thad W. Allen, the retired Coast Guard admiral who is leading the federal spill response effort, told reporters on Tuesday. ''But the whole thing will not be done until the relief well is completed.''
The static kill operation could last for close to three days. After it is completed, work can resume on the final 100 feet of the first relief well, which officials say should be completed by Aug. 15 unless bad weather intervenes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nearly 36,000 tons of oily debris had been collected from shorelines through Sunday. Above, near the shore in Port Fourchon, La. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF HALLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) CHART: Where the Oil Went: A breakdown of what happened to the 4.9 million barrels of oil that have leaked from the Deepwater Horizon well, according to a new government report. (Source: NOAA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); ANIMALS (85%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); OCEANS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



84 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Taxes Don't Cross New England State Lines, but Controversies Do

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Every day, countless cars with license plates from neighboring states pull into New Hampshire's state-run liquor stores, looking to stock up on tax-free alcohol.
''We like that,'' said Jeffrey Meyers, legal counsel for Gov. John Lynch of New Hampshire, which has no sales tax. ''It's business. There are tax-free liquor sales every day of the year here, and it's something we offer everyone.''
In New England, state borders are not far apart, but the tax systems within them are, leading to competition for sales, businesses and other sources of revenue. The proximity, and conflicting tax codes, can result in uncomfortable arrangements for some residents. Last week, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts voluntarily paid state officials more than $400,000 in sales tax on a nearly $7 million yacht berthed in Rhode Island, which has no sales and use tax on pleasure boats. 
The announcement of his decision to pay Massachusetts came after the issue turned into a political lightning rod for Mr. Kerry, who was accused of dodging a tax bill on his 76-foot yacht. The Boston Herald broke the story.
Mr. Kerry said that he had not taken final ownership of the yacht, but that he had always planned to pay Massachusetts taxes when he took possession of it.
''Senator Kerry and his family always comply with tax law,'' Jodi Seth, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kerry, said in a statement. The ship was built by a Rhode Island company, she said, and ''is based in Newport at the Newport Shipyard for long-term maintenance, upkeep and charter purposes, not tax reasons.''
Navjeet Bal, commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Revenue, said in an interview that ''a tax return with respect to that boat has been filed.''
Michael J. Widmer, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a nonpartisan watchdog group, said New England offered opportunities for tax maneuvers that were less common elsewhere.
''Across the country I think you always have border wars, if you will, around taxes,'' Mr. Widmer said, ''and in New England the states are obviously very close to each other. I think the possibilities become greater than out West, where you're not going to drive three hours to fill up your car with gas or buy a washing machine and pay a lower or not pay sales tax. That sense of proximity opens up possibilities.''
Mr. Kerry is not the only high-profile person to draw attention in Rhode Island. Last week, the former Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling announced that he was moving his video-game company, 38 Studios, to Rhode Island from Massachusetts after that state gave the company a $75 million loan guarantee on the condition that it bring 450 jobs to the state over three years.
Massachusetts officials said they wanted to avoid a ''bidding war'' with the company. Rhode Island, which has the fourth-highest unemployment rate in the country, was willing to make a large investment in one company.
Keith Stokes, the director of the Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation, said the state used a big part of a job creation program passed by the legislature this year to bring the company to the state.
The move by 38 Studios caused controversy in both states. Timothy Cahill, an independent candidate for governor in Massachusetts, said his state should have done more to keep the company, while Lincoln Chaffee, an independent candidate for governor in Rhode Island, questioned whether the state should take a gamble on an individual who does not have a long track record in business.
Rhode Island, which has been economically hobbled by the recession, is changing its business and economic climate to make it friendlier to businesses, including nearly halving its personal income tax.
But there is at least one area in which Massachusetts can compete. ''In Massachusetts we don't have a sales tax on airplanes,'' said Ms. Bal, the revenue commissioner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts was accused of trying to dodge a tax bill on his nearly $7 million yacht, the Isabel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); SALES TAX (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); LAWYERS (70%); SHIPBUILDING (69%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (68%)

COMPANY: BOSTON HERALD (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (90%); JOHN LYNCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



85 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Dow Chemical Shares Fall As Profit Misses Estimates

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Dow Chemical Companyposted a lower-than-expected quarterly profit Tuesday after idling several plants to retool for higher production rates, and its shares fell nearly 10 percent. 
The temporary closing of three plants overshadowed higher sales across all businesses and regions, cutting profit by 7 cents a share and revenue by $300 million, the company said.
The plants, one in Argentina and two in Texas, had been operating at low levels during the recession and Dow needed extra time to ramp up production, it said.
The Argentina factory, Dow's largest polyethylene plant in Latin America, was closed for 30 days, roughly a third of the quarter. It also had a water supply problem, the chief executive, Andrew N. Liveris, said in a call with investors.
Mr. Liveris told investors the plant shutdown did not extend into the third quarter and that there would be no major closings the rest of the year.
In a positive sign, Dow said its advanced materials business reported a 13.6 percent increase in sales, to $2.73 billion. Dow hopes to increase annual sales at the unit, which makes parts for solar panels, televisions and Apple's iPhone, to $16 billion by 2015.
Dow reported net income of $566 million, or 50 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $486 million, or 47 cents a share. Excluding one-time items, Dow earned 54 cents a share, falling short of the 56 cents expected by analysts.
Revenue rose 20.3 percent to $13.62 billion from $11.32 billion.
Dow cited bad weather in North America and Europe for lower-than-expected results in its agricultural business, where operating income rose 40 percent.
On the conference call, executives said demand for agricultural chemicals remained strong.
As in the first quarter, Dow's basic plastics unit posted strong results, with sales up 26 percent. The unit's products are used in a wide range of consumer goods, including diapers.
Stock in Dow, which is based in Midland, Mich., fell $2.83, or almost 10 percent, to $25.5 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (73%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (73%); RESIN MFG (73%); AGRICULTURE (71%); PLASTICS (70%); POLYETHYLENE (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%)

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (91%); APPLE INC (55%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (91%); DOW (NYSE) (91%); DOW (LSE) (91%); 4850 (TSE) (91%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW N LIVERIS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



86 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: A Bet on Clean Energy in the Automotive State

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

 BODY:
HOLLAND, Mich. -- In February 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which among other things provided $2.4 billion to encourage development of a domestic industry to make lighter, more energy-dense lithium-ion batteries to power electric vehicles.
Two weeks ago, on July 15, the president flew to this small city on the shore of Lake Michigan to attend the groundbreaking for a $303 million, 650,000 square-foot battery plant operated by Compact Power, a subsidiary of LG Chem, a Korean company, and to see other evidence of the stimulus bill's influence in Michigan. He did not have to travel far.
There are 17 new plants in production, under construction or approaching groundbreaking in Michigan's nascent vehicle battery sector, according to the state Department of Energy, Labor and Economic Growth. Two of them, representing an investment of $523 million, are in Holland, a city of 34,000.
The Compact Power plant will produce batteries for the Chevy Volt, a hybrid vehicle assisted by a gas engine that is expected to be priced at $41,000 when it reaches dealers later this year, and for the electric version of the Ford Focus, which has a range of 100 miles and will reach the market next year. 
In 2009, Deutsche Bank estimated global sales of electric, hybrid and other alternative-fuel, advanced-technology vehicles could rise by 30 percent this year, to 1.3 million. J. D. Power recently estimated that hybrid and electric vehicles could account for about 1.3 percent of an estimated 67 million in light-vehicle sales worldwide this year. And the D.T.T. Global Manufacturing Industry Group estimates that by 2020, electric vehicles and other ''green'' cars will represent up to a third of total sales in developed markets and up to 20 percent in urban areas of emerging markets.
Less than two miles east from the 120-acre Compact Power site is a second battery plant. Johnson Controls teamed up with the French battery maker Saft to transform a closed 129,000-square-foot automotive electronics factory into a $220 million, 173,000-square-foot battery plant that employs 35 workers, and could grow to 300 workers within two years.
Just like the Compact Power project, which is expected to open in 2012 and employ 450 workers by 2013, half of cost of the Johnson Controls/Saft plant construction was paid by a grant from the federal stimulus.
In all, 13 battery and related plants have received federal stimulus grants in Michigan. ''This is a symbol of where Michigan is going,'' Mr. Obama said in Holland. ''This is a symbol of where Holland is going. This is a symbol of where America is going.''
That assertion attracted protests from the Michigan Tea Party, which dispatched several of its members to the groundbreaking. And it prompted a political dust-up with Representative Peter Hoekstra, a Republican candidate for governor who voted against the stimulus.
Before attending the groundbreaking, Mr. Hoekstra, a nine-term lawmaker who represents Holland, held a conference call with reporters in which he criticized the federal investments in battery manufacturing as ''the wrong strategy, the wrong plan.''
Mr. Obama, near the end of his remarks, let Mr. Hoekstra know he was not pleased. ''There are some folks who want to go back -- who think that we should return to the policies that helped to lead to this recession,'' the president said, adding tartly, ''Now, it doesn't stop them from being at ribbon-cuttings. But that's O.K.''
Economic development and real estate specialists in Holland said they welcomed the federal funds. Kris DePree, the president of the Zeeland, Mich., office of Colliers International, the commercial real estate brokerage firm, said the plants would help stabilize commercial vacancy rates in the region, now around 10 percent. ''We haven't seen industrial investments like this in quite some time,'' Mr. DePree said.
Randy Thelen, the president of Lakeshore Advantage, the nonprofit economic development organization that helped attract both plants to Holland, said such investments were crucial to the region's future. Holland has lost 3 percent of its population since 2000, and the city's unemployment rate climbed to nearly 18 percent early this year, according to state figures.
The two new plants, Mr. Thelen said, could stimulate a regional auto battery manufacturing and supply industry capable of eventually employing 10,000 people. That would rival the office furniture industry, he said, which employed 12,000 people in the Holland area.
''We have 8,000 people ready to go to work right now,'' Mr. Thelen said. ''This city could be the center of the American battery industry.''
Other cities in Michigan are also competing for that title. Toda America, a Japanese maker of lithium-ion battery components, broke ground in Battle Creek in April for a $70 million plant that will initially employ 60 people.
A123 Systems, a battery-technology innovator that got its start at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has offices in Ann Arbor and in Livonia, Mich., where it has an auto engineering unit that employs over 250 people.
Last year the company received $249 million in stimulus grants to develop a 291,000-square-foot plant in Livonia that opened in March, and to build another plant of similar size in nearby Romulus set to open next year. The company's investment in southeast Michigan will total over $600 million, and more than 800 workers are expected to be employed at the two newest plants.
Dow Kokam, a new lithium-ion battery maker formed by Dow Chemical and two other companies, broke ground in May in Midland, Mich., on a $322 million, 400,000-square-foot plant. It expects to complete the factory in January 2012 and employ 320 people. Kristina Schnepf, a spokeswoman, said there were plans to expand the plant to 800,000 square feet soon after production began in 2012.
The statewide building boom follows a grim decade in Michigan, which has lost 800,000 jobs since 2000, roughly half in manufacturing and most of those in the auto industry.
Under Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat now concluding her second term, Michigan studied various industrial sectors around which to build a new economic strategy. State economic specialists focused on clean energy, and especially battery production for the next generation of energy-efficient vehicles. She helped persuade the Legislature to approve $1 billion in tax credits for companies involved in developing advanced energy storage systems for electric vehicles.
The federal and state spending on advanced batteries has encouraged construction in other sectors of the recovering auto industry. State unemployment dropped to 13.1 percent in June from a peak of 14.9 percent in March, according to federal data.
Lenawee Stamping, a producer of metal stamping and welded fabrications, is expanding a plant in Tecumseh, Mich., to accommodate more production of G.M. electric vehicles, adding some 140 jobs. Magna Holdings of America, a designer and maker of auto components and systems, plans to invest $49.2 million to expand its operations in four Michigan cities to produce electric car systems, creating 500 more jobs, according to the Michigan Economic Development Corporation.
''What's absolutely critical is that we manufacture the components of a clean energy economy -- the batteries, the wind turbines, the solar panels -- right here in the United States,'' Ms. Granholm told a conference of engineers and battery developers in Detroit on July 27. ''Michigan intends to lead the way in clean energy manufacturing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clearing land for the Compact Power battery plant in Holland, Mich. Holland will have two such plants, an investment of more than $500 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM BIRD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Obama tried out the electric Ford Focus with Kurt Dykstra, the mayor of Holland, Mich., during his visit to the city last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BATTERY MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (63%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (63%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (56%)

COMPANY: LG CHEM LTD (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

TICKER: LGCD (LSE) (57%); 051910 (KSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS321918 OTHER MILLWORK (INCLUDING FLOORING) (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



87 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: At CBS, a Recovery in Local Ad Sales and a Focus on Cost Controls Bolster Results

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Reflecting a resurgence in advertising revenue, the CBS Corporation on Tuesday reported earnings of $150.1 million in its second quarter, up from $15.4 million in the period a year earlier. 
Sumner Redstone, the chairman of CBS, described the results as ''superexcellent'' in a conference call with analysts on Tuesday afternoon.
Revenue climbed 11 percent, to $3.33 billion, exceeding analysts' expectations.
Like other major media companies, CBS said it was capitalizing on the economic recovery. Its earnings are an indication that local advertisers are starting to spend more after severe cutbacks in 2008 and 2009, which hurt local TV and radio stations.
CBS said advertising at its local broadcasting unit was up 17 percent from the period a year earlier. Over all, local broadcasting revenues rose to $678 million from $579 million a year earlier.
Though the midterm elections are still months away, companies like CBS are already benefiting from an increase in political advertising.
The CBS chief executive, Leslie Moonves, said he expected political ads to be a ''major driver'' of revenue later in the year, citing a ''large number of critical, hard-fought elections'' in markets where CBS owns television stations.
He also cited the Supreme Court ruling in the Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission case in January, which allowed increased spending by corporations in political campaigns.
In the second quarter, ad revenues for the CBS broadcast network were up 5 percent, in part because of the final March Madness basketball games, which were played in April this year. CBS's entertainment division reported that revenues rose to $1.67 billion from $1.52 billion a year earlier, buoyed by international sales of TV shows like ''CSI,'' ''NCIS: Los Angeles'' and ''The Good Wife.''
While crediting the economy for some of the gains, Mr. Moonves said the company had also taken steps to lower costs and reduce debt. ''We have no intentions of letting costs creep back into our operations,'' he told analysts.
CBS, hoping to secure more online ad dollars, said on Tuesday that it was rebuilding its local Web sites in major markets, starting in New York with CBSNewYork.com. In New York, the WCBS television station and the WINS, WCBS and WFAN radio stations will all feed into a combined Web site. The New York site is now online in a testing stage.
Calling it a ''significant growth opportunity for us,'' Mr. Moonves said CBS would add similar sites in other major markets, adding that they would ''truly leverage the power of our local assets.''
CBS made news on Monday when it announced a 10-year carriage agreement with Comcast, the nation's largest cable operator, that included retransmission fees for CBS-owned television stations. On Tuesday, Mr. Moonves called it a milestone agreement.
The News Corporation, Time Warner and Viacom will report earnings later this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); BASKETBALL (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICS (68%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (52%); SUPREME COURTS (51%)

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: LESLIE MOONVES (79%); SUMNER REDSTONE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



88 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CARACAS JOURNAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Building a New History By Exhuming Bolivar

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Maria Eugenia Diaz contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- The clock had just struck midnight. Most of the country was asleep. But that did not stop President Hugo Chavez from announcing in the early hours of July 16 that the latest phase of his Bolivarian Revolution had been stirred into motion.
Marching to the national anthem, a team of soldiers, forensic specialists and presidential aides gathered around the sarcophagus of Simon Bolivar, the 19th-century aristocrat who freed much of South America from Spain. A state television crew filmed the group, clad in white lab coats, hair nets and ventilation masks, attempt what seemed like an anemic half-goose step. 
Then they unscrewed the burial casket, lifted off its lid and removed a Venezuelan flag covering the remains. A camera suspended from above captured images of a skeleton. Insomniacs here with dropped jaws watched live coverage of the Bolivar exhumation on state television, with narration provided by Interior Minister Tareck El Aissami.
For those unfortunate enough to have dozed off, there was always Twitter.
''What impressive moments we've lived tonight!'' Mr. Chavez told followers in a series of Twitter messages sent during the exhumation that were redistributed by the state news agency a few hours later. ''Rise up, Simon, as it's not time to die! Immediately I remembered that Bolivar lives!''
Even Venezuelans used to Mr. Chavez's political theater were surprised by the exhumation, which pushed aside issues like a scandal over imported food found rotting in ports, anger over an economy mired in recession and evidence offered by Colombia that Colombian guerrillas are encamped on Venezuelan soil.
With all this going on, Venezuelans have been scratching their heads in recent weeks over the possible motives for Mr. Chavez's removal of Bolivar's remains from the National Pantheon.
The president offered his own explanation. It involves the urgent need to do tests to determine whether Bolivar died of arsenic poisoning in Santa Marta, Colombia, instead of from tuberculosis in 1830, as historians have long accepted. A commission assembled here by Mr. Chavez has been examining this theory for the past three years.
Their work is based on claims among some Bolivarianologos, as specialists here on the history of Bolivar are called, that a long-lost letter by Bolivar reveals how he was betrayed by Colombia's aristocracy. By deciphering the letter using Masonic codes, they suggest the conspiracy was even broader, including Andrew Jackson, then president of the United States, and the king of Spain.
Findings presented at a medical conference this year in the United States have encouraged Mr. Chavez further. At the conference, Paul Auwaerter, an infectious disease expert at Johns Hopkins University, said Bolivar likely died of arsenic ingestion, an assertion seized upon by state media here to support the claim that Bolivar was murdered.
It matters little that Dr. Auwaerter says his research has been misconstrued, since an ingestion of arsenic could have been unintentional through arsenic-containing medications common in that era or contaminated drinking water. ''I do not agree with President Chavez's theories,'' he said by e-mail.
Undeterred, the government here says it will get to the bottom of Bolivar's death. The attorney general attended the exhumation, making it clear that the authorities view the mystery of Bolivar's bones as the equivalent of a crime scene and a matter of national importance.
The exhumation could serve multiple purposes. If Mr. Chavez can say Bolivar was murdered in Colombia, he could try to use that against Colombia's current government, with which Venezuela's relations are cold, while reinforcing his longstanding claims that Colombians and others are plotting to assassinate him.
It would also allow Mr. Chavez to rewrite a major aspect of Venezuela's history. The president already closely identifies himself and his political movement with Bolivar, renaming the country the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, his espionage agency the Bolivarian Intelligence Service and so on. Portraits of Bolivar hang alongside Mr. Chavez's in federal government offices.
This country's intelligentsia fixates on Bolivar's legacy and the use of Bolivar not just by Mr. Chavez but by rulers stretching back to the 19th century.
Slip into a bookstore and titles like ''Divine Bolivar,'' ''The Cult of Bolivar,'' ''Thought of the Liberator'' and ''Why I'm Not Bolivarian'' line the shelves. Scholars argue over how it was possible for one 20th-century dictator, Juan Vicente Gomez, to have conveniently shared the dates of his birth and death with Bolivar's.
Some of Mr. Chavez's top aides have begun using the exhumation as a method for attacking his opponents. Last month, the culture minister, Francisco Sesto, chastised Baltazar Porras, a Venezuelan archbishop, for ''verbal desecration'' for contending that Bolivar was, in fact, dead.
Political movements drawing strength from the remains of the dead are not new here or elsewhere in Latin America. One recent example came from Carlos Menem, Argentina's former president, who returned the remains of the 19th-century warlord Juan Manuel de Rosas from England for burial in Argentina in 1989.
''Disputes over bodies are disputes over power, power over the past and power in the present,'' said Lyman Johnson, a historian at the University of North Carolina who specializes in Latin America's body cults. ''These powerful meanings force new life into long-dead bodies.''
Mr. Chavez, with his removal of teeth and other bone fragments from Bolivar's skeleton for DNA testing, may be taking the appropriation of the dead to new levels. The authorities here have ignored requests from descendants of Bolivar's family (Bolivar himself is not widely believed to have had children) to leave the remains alone.
''The exhumation was one of the most grotesque spectacles I have ever seen,'' said Lope Mendoza, 71, a prominent businessman here who is a great-great-grandnephew of Bolivar's.
Still, the authorities here say they are far from finished. They plan to build a new pantheon for Bolivar to be completed by next year in which the bones will be deposited in a golden urn instead of a lead sarcophagus.
Next up for exhumation, said Vice President Elias Jaua, is Bolivar's sister Maria Antonia Bolivar, whose remains lie at the Caracas Cathedral. Mr. Jaua said DNA testing must be done on her skeleton as well to determine whether the bones found in Bolivar's tomb are actually Bolivar's.
''Once we are certain that these are the Liberator's remains,'' Mr. Jaua said, ''we will prepare a documentary in order to bestow testimony to history.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Venezuelans waiting under a banner of Bolivar to buy reduced-rate food at a government office in Caracas. At left, museum visitors looking at the box that Bolivar had been buried in. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); FORENSICS (76%); HISTORY (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (75%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONSPIRACY (69%); POISONINGS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (66%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (64%); TUBERCULOSIS (61%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); COLOMBIA (94%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



89 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
TROOPS EXCHANGE FIRE
At Israel-Lebanon Border
Israeli and Lebanese army troops exchanged lethal fire on their countries' border, in what was the fiercest clash in the area since Israel's monthlong war against the Lebanese Hezbollah militia in the summer of 2006. PAGE A9
CRUCIAL KENYAN REFERENDUM 
Kenya will vote on a new constitution that seeks to address the flawed political dynamics that exploded after the disputed 2007 presidential election. Elections in the country have often led to bloodshed. Yet many analysts say that Kenya has no choice but to proceed, and that if it votes the constitution down, it is flirting with disaster. PAGE A8
MORE RAIN IN PAKISTAN
Monsoon rains resumed in Pakistan after a two-day pause, forcing relief work to stop in several northwestern areas and raising fears that the high water levels would threaten the sflood-stricken country's third biggest dam. PAGE A10
National
SENATE BEGINS DEBATE
On Court Nominee
The Senate opened debate on Elena Kagan's nomination to the Supreme Court, with Democrats praising her as a sagacious legal mind and a refreshing choice from outside the usual ranks of federal judges and Republicans denouncing her as a liberal partisan. PAGE A11
SCRAMBLING TO MAKE ROOM
The University of Iowa 's incoming freshman class is so large that the university is scrambling to figure out where they will sleep, and how to fit them in to some of the most popular courses. PAGE A11
New York
BROOKLYN-QUEENS AREA
Has Its Own Oil Spill
Decades in the making and confined to a corner of industrial New York, the oil spills in and along Newtown Creek do not have the drama of disasters like the current one in the Gulf of Mexico. But more than a century of unchecked operations and storage by oil refineries along the four-mile-long creek fouled its waters and seeped through 55 acres of land in the vicinity. PAGE A15
Business
BLACKBERRY MAKER RESISTS
Pressure From Governments
A top executive of Research In Motion, the Canadian company that makes BlackBerry smartphones, said the company would not give in to pressure from foreign governments to provide access to its customers' messages. PAGE B1
A COFFEE CONUNDRUM
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters has built a reputation as an environmentally minded company since it was founded nearly 30 years ago. But its recent growth has been fueled by nonrecyclable, nonbiodegradable, single-use coffee pods and their brewing systems, and the company and its rivals are searching for ways to make the packaging greener. PAGE B1
CONSUMERS ARE SAVING MORE
A new government report showed that consumers saved 6.4 percent of their after-tax income in June. Before the latest recession, the rate had hovered near 1 to 2 percent for many years. The questions now are whether America's newfound frugality will continue and whether consumers' reluctance to spend will hold back economic growth. PAGE B1
Sports
A W.N.B.A. STALWART
Nears Scoring Record
Tina Thompson, a 6-foot-2 forward and nine-time All-Star, is the last player standing from the inaugural W.N.B.A. season, in 1997. And she is on the verge of becoming the top career scorer in the league. PAGE B12
THE BIG EAST'S BLURRY FUTURE
After solidifying itself in the wake of the departures of Miami, Virginia Tech and Boston College to the Atlantic Coast Conference, the Big East now finds itself facing a new challenge -- surviving conference expansion. PAGE B13
SPECULATING ON FAVRE'S PLANS
Almost exactly a year after Brett Favre told the Minnesota Vikings he would not play in 2009, news media outlets reported that he had told some Vikings personnel that he would not return in 2010. N.F.L. Roundup. PAGE B13
Arts
A SCHOLAR TRIES TO EMERGE
From the Doghouse
Michael A. Bellesiles's book ''1877: America's Year of Living Violently,'' which will be published next week, is an attempted comeback for Mr. Bellesiles, who has languished in a kind of academic limbo for a decade after a scandal surrounding his previous book cut short what looked to be a promising career. PAGE C1
ELUSIVE FILMS, ON TV
Fans of the Hong Kong director Johnnie To, one of the great virtuosos of the gangster film, have had to track down films in Chinatown video stores or at far-flung festivals. But now a new conduit is opening for Mr. To and other foreign and independent directors who struggle to have their work seen in the United States: on pay television as an on-demand selection. PAGE C1
Dining
A POP-UP RESTAURANT,
Sublime but Fleeting
LudoBites 5.0 is a guerrilla restaurant that popped up in downtown Los Angeles and is run by the itinerant Burgundy-born chef Ludovic Lefebvre and his wife, Kristine Lefebvre. During the day the LudoBites space is Gram & Papa's, a breakfast-and-lunch joint. But the couple rent the room each weeknight, and transform it into a casual monument to fine dining, a bistro temple. Sam Sifton, Critic's Notebook. PAGE D1
Op-ed
THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A21
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); REFERENDUMS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); JUDGES (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); COFFEE (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); SMARTPHONES (61%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (52%); GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (58%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (52%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (52%); GMCR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (51%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); KENYA (94%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



90 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; A GOOD APPETITE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Push the Eggs Aside And Let True Flavors Bloom

BYLINE: By MELISSA CLARK

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH I'd spent most of my childhood licking wan soft-serve vanilla and shockingly green mint-chocolate chip, I never looked back after my first taste of premium custard-based ice cream. Exceedingly creamy and as smooth as a stick of softened butter, it blew those crystallized supermarket cartons away with an icy blast.
This was in the 1980s, when Haagen-Dazs and its ilk (remember Frusen Gladje?) became the standard for mass-market frozen decadence. Compared with the air-filled, sugary ice creams most Americans were buying, these egg-based ice creams were just better, with a higher fat content and a dreamy, mouth-coating, dense texture.
Then recently, at The General Greene in Brooklyn, I tasted a honey vanilla ice cream that turned the richer-is-better paradigm on its head. Made without eggs, it was intensely flavored, with a delicate, milky texture that was more refreshing than custard-based ice cream. The nuances of both the honey and the fragrant vanilla beans were apparent, but fleeting enough to demand another bite, then another, until the entire cone was gone. I felt as if I could easily have gobbled a second. 
That's lucky for me, because The General Greene is one of several ice cream makers (including Blue Marble, the Brooklyn Ice Cream Factory, and Ronnybrook Farm Dairy) that are striving to put intensity of flavor and lightness of texture ahead of mouth-coating density.
Egg-free ice cream might be trendy, but it's not new. Often called Philadelphia-style or American-style ice cream, it's a traditional method that can yield phenomenal results if superior ingredients are used and if the ice cream is not pumped full of air (as many cheap store-bought brands are).
''Cream, berries and sugar hand-churned in one of those rock salt contraptions is what I think of as the original American ice cream,'' said Nick Morgenstern, the pastry chef and an owner of The General Greene. ''If you're using good dairy and incredible ripe fruit, you don't need eggs. In fact, they are going to mask the flavor of the other ingredients. My goal is for the ice cream to taste like the flavor that it is, whether it's peach or chocolate or pistachio.''
The owners of Blue Marble in Brooklyn, Jennie Dundas and Alexis Miesen, vetoed eggs for an entirely different reason: economics. The wanted to use mostly organic and local ingredients, Ms. Dundas said, but quickly saw that ''organic eggs would have been just beyond crazy, cost-wise.''
A bonus to going Philadelphia-style was the appeal to customers who avoid eggs. ''I didn't realize how many people had egg allergies until I got into ice cream,'' she said.
Pastry chefs are also starting to embrace the style, though it goes against their training.
''Custard bases are the standard in restaurants because that's what chefs are taught in culinary school, and you're guaranteed a creamy consistency,'' said David Carmichael, the pastry chef at Gilt in Manhattan.
He uses an egg-free base for milk chocolate ice cream and toasted walnut ice cream. They share their plates with richer confections, he said, and a custard ice cream would be overkill.
The pastry chef at Buddakan in Manhattan, Vicki Wells, makes her creamsicle ice cream without eggs because she likes its lightness.
''I like Philly ice cream a lot,'' she said. ''It reminds me of old-fashioned ice creams before all of us pastry chefs started making creme Anglaise bases back in the '80s. For me, I can only eat a small quenelle of French ice cream, but with Philly style I can eat a dish of it.''
From the perspective of a home cook, egg-free ice creams are simpler than custard-based ones, and more foolproof. You don't have to worry about tempering the yolks, or fear curdling. And, as Ms. Wells pointed out, you can also eat more.
These were reasons enough to make me to want to play around with some Philadelphia-style recipes. But first, I called some experts for advice.
David Lebovitz, author of ''The Perfect Scoop,'' recommended egg-free ice creams for fruit flavors. The fruit can shine, he said, without the fat coating your mouth and interfering with the flavor.
It runs counter to ''the whole fat-is-flavor movement,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''Fat is fine, and necessary in ice cream. But too much makes ice cream that is overly rich and hard to eat that much of.''
To soften the texture of egg-free ice creams, which otherwise freeze rock solid, Mr. Lebovitz advised adding a few spoonfuls of alcohol or a liquid sweetener like honey or maple syrup.
Adding more sugar also helps the texture, Mr. Morgenstern told me, but so does simply leaving the ice cream at room temperature -- or better, in the refrigerator -- until it's soft enough to scoop. He also suggested adding salt, and combining heavy cream and milk at a ratio of 65 percent to 35 percent, both of which I took to heart. But once he started talking about ''tempering in dry milk powder'' and measuring sugar levels with a refractometer, I stopped him. I was going for easy delectability, not perfection.
So one stifling afternoon, I set off on an ice cream marathon, making a fruit flavor (ripe berries from the farmers' market), a nut flavor (roasted hazelnut-vanilla), a bittersweet chocolate (which Mr. Morgenstern had promised would have the creamiest texture) and maple spice.
I churned all four, then let them solidify overnight in the freezer. The next day, I stashed them in the fridge for 30 minutes before scooping.
The berry was the prettiest and freshest tasting, with a lively flavor that was just on the smooth and creamy side of sherbet. Maple spice was the lightest and most sophisticated, while the chocolate was profoundly bittersweet and silky, with a faint but delightful rye whiskey undertone.
My tentative favorite was the hazelnut spiked with Cognac and vanilla. The aromatics made the hazelnuts taste like praline, and I adored the crunchy nuts against the cold milky base.
Clearly though, more investigation is warranted, and so might be another ice cream marathon before summer is done. Happily, egg-free ice cream is easy enough to churn out.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Good Appetite column last Wednesday, about egg-free ice creams, misspelled the surname of a cookbook author who recommended making fruit-flavored ones. He is David Lebovitz, not Lebowitz.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A LIGHTER TEXTURE: A berry melange is mashed, then blended with a vodka-laced creamy mixture in an ice cream machine for a summer treat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SCRIVANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS (91%); ICE CREAM MFG (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (86%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); TABLE EGGS (77%); TABLE EGG INDUSTRY (76%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (75%); FOOD ALLERGIES (73%); OILS & FATS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); ALLERGIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010



91 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: 125 Days Late, A State Budget With New Taxes

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Lawmakers completed one of the latest budgets in New York State history on Tuesday night, passing a last piece of legislation that will raise an additional $1 billion -- in part by increasing taxes on the sale of clothing and on a variety of businesses.
The state will increase its share of revenue from video gambling machines and will allow a number of casinos to stay open later. Lawmakers also voted to reduce charitable deductions for those who make $10 million or more. 
But lawmakers rejected a plan to enact a tax change on earnings by hedge fund managers who work in New York but live outside the state. Much of their compensation comes in performance incentives that are considered capital gains and are taxed federally at 15 percent. The change would have made these earnings ''ordinary'' income, subject to New York State taxes.
The move came as hedge funds were being wooed to move out of the state.
A vote in the State Senate took place just before 8:30 p.m., ending months of contentious negotiations, with the budget 125 days late. The Assembly had earlier approved the budget, which is projected to be $136.5 billion. Spending will increase by 2.4 percent over the previous budget.
Lawmakers had been passing the budget in pieces for several months, amid a stalemate with Gov. David A. Paterson.
Democrats, who control the Legislature, feared the indignity of passing the latest budget ever in an election year. The record was set in 2004, when the budget passed on Aug. 11.
The last piece of the budget passed on a party-line vote, 32 to 28, with the Senate's tenuous Democratic majority holding together and no Republicans voting in favor of the measure. Although the Legislature passed a spending plan several weeks ago, it had been at loggerheads with the governor on devising a way to pay for the final part of the budget.
''Today the Senate completed the final stages of a fair and responsible budget that works for New Yorkers,'' Austin Shafran, a spokesman for the Senate Democrats, said in a statement.
Surprisingly, there was almost no debate on the measure, but Senator Dean G. Skelos, the Republican leader, signaled what are sure to be campaign themes for his party in the fall.
''Today, Senate Democrats finished voting on a budget that raises taxes by nearly $4 billion,'' Mr. Skelos said in a statement, referring to his tally of the total amount of taxes approved in the last few months. ''Today's action also completes one of the latest budgets in state history. What did taxpayers get as a result? They got higher spending and more taxes, but not a single initiative to create any new jobs or improve New York's economy.''
The legislation will eliminate a sales tax exemption on clothing and footwear purchases of less than $110 starting on Oct. 1. That was by far the largest piece of the bill passed Tuesday night; it is expected to raise about $330 million.
The legislation also expands tax breaks for film production companies and requires online travel companies to collect sales taxes on hotel rooms.
The governor, through a spokesman, hailed the passage of the budget.
''Today the state finalized a budget that closes a $9.2 billion budget gap,'' said Morgan Hook, Mr. Paterson's communications director. ''This was done primarily through spending cuts and with no borrowing.''
''A fiscally responsible budget,'' Mr. Hook added, ''will help our state turn the corner on this economic crisis and put us on a path to recovery.''
A number of other significant measures passed on Tuesday. Lawmakers approved a plan to raise more than $1 billion through uniform, across-the-board cuts to state programs, should Congress fail to approve an increase in Medicaid financing this year. Legislators had long resisted approving the plan, but the governor had insisted on it as it became increasingly uncertain that Congress would increase the financing.
Lawmakers also passed a controversial measure requiring that prisoners be counted as residents not of the mostly upstate prisons where they reside, but of the areas where they lived before they were incarcerated. This effort had been fiercely resisted by Republicans, because of the implications the move could have as legislative districts are redrawn by the Legislature.
Democrats had championed the measure. ''This is an issue of fundamental fairness, and it will empower poor communities because their population will reflect those prisoners,'' said Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, a Manhattan Democrat running for attorney general. ''If other states follow us, it would represent a major shift of political power back to these poor urban communities.''
One notable measure that failed to pass was a bill that would have given the state university system far more autonomy to set its own tuition rates. The plan was being pushed by the chancellor, Nancy L. Zimpher, as a way to help turn around the ailing system.
But Democratic leaders pulled the bill twice after it was clear both times that it would not pass.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The State Senate in Albany on Tuesday, where lawmakers passed a budget that increases taxes on the sale of clothing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); APPROVALS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); SALES TAX (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); GAMING (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



92 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: BP Begins 'Static Kill,' to Seal Well Permanently

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Engineers began pumping heavy drilling mud into BP's stricken well in the Gulf of Mexico on Tuesday with the hope of sealing the well permanently or at least revealing critical clues on how to kill it before the end of the month. 
The effort, known as static kill, comes just over 100 days after the Macondo well blew out, sinking the Deepwater Horizon platform, killing 11 drill workers, and spewing nearly 5 million barrels of crude into the Gulf of Mexico, according to government estimates. Engineers made repeated efforts to contain or muzzle the well with little success until a tight cap was fitted over it nearly three weeks ago.
Through the afternoon, engineers pumped mud weighing about 13.2 pounds per gallon at slow speeds from a surface vessel through a choke line into the blowout preventer on top of the well. If all goes well, cement may be applied to fill the well over the next few days.
Officials were guarded about declaring that the operation would bring a final resolution to a spill that has caused significant economic and environmental damage to the Gulf region and seriously damaged the reputation of the London-based oil giant. They say they can only be confident the well will finally be plugged when one of two relief wells intercept the runaway well, allowing for a complete sealing of the well with cement.
Engineers are cautious because they are not certain pumping mud from the top will plug the entire well pipe. If it only fills the center well pipe, and not the area called the annulus between the inner piping and the outer casing, then a final cementing of the well may have to wait another few weeks. At the very least, though, engineers say the static kill will help pinpoint leaks that need to be filled once they complete drilling one of two relief wells.
''The static kill will increase the probability that the relief well will work,'' retired Coast Guard Adm.Thad Allen, the leader of the federal spill response effort told reporters on Tuesday. ''But the whole thing will not be done until the relief well is completed.''
It is possible that the static kill will succeed in plugging the entire well with cement, but engineers will only be able to confirm that success with certainty once the relief well is complete.
Before BP began the static kill operation, they completed several hours of testing by shooting refined oil through the well to check well pressures and determine that they could inject liquids into the reservoir. After consulting with Energy Secretary Steven Chu and senior government scientists over the results, they decided to move forward with the mud pumping operation.
The efforts were delayed by a day when technicians found leaks from two valves on the new capping stack, but officials said there was no sign of serious damage to the well.
The static kill operation could last nearly three days. After it is completed, work can resume on the final 100 feet of the first relief well, which should be completed by Aug. 15, unless a tropical storm reaches the Gulf and interrupts work. A final killing of the well should be completed by the end of the month.
A second relief well is being drilled in case the first one misses its target, but officials say that it is unlikely that will be necessary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); OIL SPILLS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%) GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); TEXAS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



93 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Afghan War Is Being Lost, Pakistani President Says

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS; Scott Sayare contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
LONDON -- On the eve of an official visit to Britain, Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, was quoted in a French newspaper on Tuesday as saying that coalition forces were losing the war in Afghanistan because they had ''lost the battle to win hearts and minds'' of Afghans, and that the Taliban's success lay ''in knowing how to wait'' for NATO forces to withdraw.
The interview in Le Monde appeared as Mr. Zardari headed for a four-day visit to Britain after talks in France, including a meeting at the Elysee Palace with President Nicolas Sarkozy, that officials on both sides described as harmonious. 
But the Paris interview set the stage for what promised to be tense discussions between Mr. Zardari and his hosts in Britain, a country with deep historic, economic and cultural ties to Pakistan, and with a deep investment in the Afghan war, where Britain has the second-highest number of foreign troops after the United States.
''The international community, to which Pakistan belongs, is losing the war against the Taliban,'' Mr. Zardari said in the Le Monde interview. ''This is above all because we have lost the battle to win hearts and minds.''
On the Taliban, he struck an ambiguous chord, saying at one point that ''they have no chance of regaining power, though their influence is growing,'' and at another that their ability to be patient means ''time is on their side.''
In a reference to President Obama's decision to virtually triple American strength in Afghanistan over the past 18 months, to a current level of about 95,000, Mr. Zardari added: ''Military reinforcements are only a small part of the response. To win the support of the Afghan people, we must bring them economic development, and prove that we can not only change their lives, but improve them.''
The Pakistan leader's remarks were similar to what many skeptics on the war in Britain and the United States -- as well senior officials and military commanders in both countries -- have said, though his bluntness in expressing them as he headed for Britain, where popular support for the war is at a low ebb, was bound to stir controversy.
Inevitably, too, his remarks appeared set to deepen the gulf between Pakistan and Britain that opened last week after Prime Minister David Cameron, during a visit to India, accused Pakistan of duplicity -- in Mr. Cameron's words, looking ''two ways'' -- in its relations with the Taliban.
Mr. Zardari, chosen as Pakistan's president after the December 2007 assassination of his wife, Benazir Bhutto, has faced bitter criticism from political opponents and others at home for continuing with his visits to France and Britain at a time of acute humanitarian crisis in Pakistan.
According to the United Nations, the worst floods in more than a century in tribal areas of northwest Pakistan abutting Afghanistan have killed more than 1,400 people and made hundreds of thousands of others homeless.
But officials in his traveling party have said the need to air differences with the new British government over the war in Afghanistan and Pakistan's relations with the Taliban trumped the demands for his return to Islamabad. Commentators in Pakistan have suggested that Mr. Zardari, who heads a weak and increasingly unpopular government, might be hoping to recoup some political strength with a headline-catching confrontation with Mr. Cameron over his remarks in India about Pakistan's ties with the Taliban.
At a recent forum in Bangalore, India, Mr. Cameron was asked about suggestions of a duplicitous policy by Pakistan toward the Taliban that The New York Times and other news organizations drew from a trove of 75,000 leaked United States military documents posted on the Internet earlier last week by the whistle-blower organization WikiLeaks.
These accounts suggested that Pakistan, while mounting military offensives against the Taliban in its own northwestern tribal areas, has continued to arm, train and finance the Taliban in Afghanistan through its military intelligence arm, Inter-Services Intelligence. It did so in part to ensure that any future Taliban government in Afghanistan would be friendly to Pakistan, the documents said.
In Bangalore, Mr. Cameron said the West ''cannot tolerate in any sense the idea that this country,'' meaning Pakistan, ''is allowed to look both ways and is able, in any way, to promote the export of terror.'' The remarks caused a furor in Pakistan, in part because they were made during a visit to India, Pakistan's historic nemesis.
In Le Monde, Mr. Zardari offered his own rebuttal. ''This is absurd,'' he said. ''There are no good Taliban with whom we could speak and bad Taliban whom we must fight. Pakistan and its people are the victims of terrorists. We are not simply defending our borders, we are fighting against terror and those who spread it.''
He noted that his wife, Ms. Bhutto, was a victim of a terrorist attack.
As for Mr. Cameron, Mr. Zardari said he would ''look him in the eyes and explain to him that it is my country that is paying the highest price in his war, in terms of human lives,'' a reference to the Pakistan troops killed in conflict with the Taliban, and civilians killed in scores of suicide attacks across Pakistan.
For his part, Mr. Cameron stood by his Bangalore remarks in a BBC radio interview on Tuesday, describing what he said in India as ''a pretty clear and frank answer'' to a question put to him at the forum, adding, ''I don't regret that at all.''
While Pakistan was ''an important ally'' of Britain's, he said, ''we have to work with them to close down the terror networks that are in Pakistan'' which had ''threatened innocent people all over the world.''
Online Correction: August 3, 2010, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the duration of Mr. Zardari's planned visit to Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (90%); DAVID CAMERON (78%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



94 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Recovers From a Slump to Report a $2.2 Billion Profit

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Despite a strong yen and the lingering fallout from recalls, the automaker Toyota said Wednesday that it had returned to a profit in the April-to-June quarter because of strong sales in emerging markets and aggressive cost-cutting.
Toyota's net quarterly profit of 190.4 billion yen, or $2.2 billion, was a sharp reversal from a loss of 77.8 billion yen in the period a year ago. The automaker continued to recover from a slump brought on by a global recession and a series of recalls over faulty pedals and inquiries into its safety record. 
The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, raised its net profit outlook for the year ending in March 2011 to 340 billion yen, from a 310 billion yen forecast earlier this year, citing a recovery in sales and progress in cost-cutting efforts.
Toyota said it now expected to sell 7.38 million vehicles in the fiscal year, up from the 7.29 million forecast earlier.
But Takahiko Ijichi, senior managing director, said the strengthening yen could cloud the outlook. The yen has risen steadily in recent months, hitting an eight-month high against the dollar in trading Wednesday as concerns over the American economy caused investors to sell the dollar.
A stronger home currency hurts Japanese exporters by making their products more expensive overseas and eroding the yen value of their foreign currency earnings. Toyota said it had based its full-year forecast on exchange rates of 90 yen to the dollar; however, the dollar was selling for around 85 yen in late trading in Tokyo on Wednesday.
Mr. Ijichi also warned that a faltering economic recovery in major markets, including the United States, and the expiration of government incentives could also hurt earnings. In Japan, sales are expected to lose steam later this year when the government winds down subsidies for fuel-efficient cars.
Still, revenue at Toyota surged to 4.87 trillion yen in the quarter, an increase of 27 percent from the same period the previous year. The automaker sold 1.82 million vehicles in the quarter -- 419,000 more than a year earlier.
Mr. Ijichi said that a companywide cost-cutting drive, including efforts to reduce waste in Toyota's supply chains, had added 50 billion yen to profit.
Toyota said business was brisk in Asia and the Middle East, though Toyota still lagged rivals in China, the biggest market in the world.
The effects of the economic downturn and the pedal recalls were still evident in the United States, although aggressive incentives were helping to lure buyers back. Toyota said Tuesday that its sales in the United States had fallen 3.2 percent in July from the period a year earlier.
''Asia is growing at an incredible rate,'' Mr. Ijichi said. ''We expect this to continue for the time being.''
The outlook for the United States was more uncertain, he said, given mixed signals on the strength of the recovery there. ''There are signs that the auto market remains resilient,'' he said. Automakers are on track to sell about 12 million vehicles this year in the United States, up from 10.4 million in 2009.
In the business year that ended in March, Toyota earned 209 billion yen. In the previous year, it lost 437 billion yen, its first annual loss in decades.
In the year that ended in March 2008, Toyota's net profit hit 1.7 trillion yen.
Much is at stake for Toyota, which surpassed General Motors to become the world's biggest carmaker in vehicle sales in 2008, only to see its business battered by the global economic downturn and recalls.
Toyota has recalled about 8.5 million vehicles worldwide for faulty accelerator pedals and other problems, which have tarnished the automaker's reputation for making safe and reliable cars. Toyota also faces multiple shareholder lawsuits, as well as consumer lawsuits claiming injuries or deaths caused by sudden acceleration incidents.
The annual J.D. Power & Associates Initial Quality Study for 2010 showed that Toyota fell to 21st out of 33 brands, from sixth place the previous year. It was the first time in the 24-year history of the survey that the company had fallen behind the industry average.
Toyota's president, Akio Toyoda, has promised to overhaul the company's safety efforts. Last month, the company bolstered a division responsible for overseeing quality, adding 1,000 engineers. The company has also said it would open new offices in the United States to investigate customer complaints more swiftly.
Toyota's top management has forfeited bonuses for the second consecutive year. A filing this year revealed that Mr. Toyoda had received compensation of less than $1 million last fiscal year, a small fraction of what his counterparts at the Detroit automakers were paid.
But Toyota has also been hit with a fresh round of recalls. Last month, the automaker said it would repair 480,000 Avalon sedans and Land Cruiser S.U.V.'s that had defective steering parts. In April it also recalled some Lexus S.U.V.'s.
Shares of Toyota fell 1.6 percent to 3,090 yen in Tokyo before the earnings were announced. Toyota's share price has dropped about 22 percent in the last year, faring worse than the Nikkei 225 index, which has dipped 8.5 percent in the same period.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Takahiko Ijichi, center, Toyota's senior managing director, said sales in the Asian market had been brisk for the automaker. At left, a Lexus LFA on display at the company's Tokyo showroom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ITSUO INOUYE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); JAPANESE YEN (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TOYOTA RECALLS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



95 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: In Gulf, Good News Is Taken With Grain of Salt

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- There is little celebration on the Gulf Coast.
Even with the news of the tentative plugging of BP's well, the attention here has largely been focused elsewhere, on a week's worth of reports, culminating in a federal study released on Wednesday, that the oil in the Gulf of Mexico has been rapidly breaking down and disappearing. These reports have been met, for the most part, with skepticism if not outright distrust.
''It's not gone,'' said George Barisich of the United Commercial Fisherman's Alliance, who has been making his money these days selling anti-BP T-shirts while also working in the Vessels of Opportunity program, a BP effort created to employ boats to help with the spill cleanup. ''Mother Nature didn't suck it up and spit it out.'' 
According to federal scientists, about a third of the oil was captured or mitigated by recovery efforts, a quarter naturally dissolved or evaporated and 16 percent was dispersed into microscopic droplets. Just over a quarter remains on or below the surface or has washed ashore, and is either being collected or is degrading naturally.
But many here have grown skeptical after the false assurances following Hurricane Katrina, the early flow rate estimates from BP and federal agencies that turned out to be drastically low and cautionary tales from Alaska about the Exxon Valdez disaster.
The skepticism has been stoked by environmental groups that came to the gulf in droves, lawyers who have been soliciting clients from billboards along roads leading south, a sensation-hungry news media and politicians who have gained broad popularity for thundering in opposition to response officials.
But it has also been fed by continued discoveries of oil clumped in marshes, stratified underneath fresh sand or exposed in the surf at low tide. These sightings do not contradict the scientific reports, which acknowledge millions of gallons of residual oil, but they fuel a broadly held fear: that the oil is merely hidden, liable to appear in a thick, brown ooze at any time.
Federal scientists and coastal residents agree in at least one respect: that the long-term effects of the spill are unknown, and that it is too early to make any conclusions about the true scale of the damage. That uncertainty leads to perhaps the most potent source of skepticism: a deep anxiety about the region's economic future.
The anxiety begins in the short term. Billions of dollars have poured into the gulf during the response, supporting coastal communities that have had a dreary summer but also enriching contractors involved in the cleanup. Any news of dissipating oil hints at a looming end to that.
BP has promised full compensation, but that has not stopped officials and residents from pursuing lawsuits or seeking billions more in restoration payments.
Just as the problems were being ironed out in the Vessels of Opportunity program, which had left many hurting commercial fishermen on the outside, recoverable oil started disappearing on the surface.
Plenty are worried that there will be no revenue to take the program's place as it wraps up.
''Even if it is true,'' Mr. Barisich said of the reports of dissipating oil, ''and I can go catch some shrimp right now, I can't sell it. I don't have a dealer or processor who can take it right now.''
Commercial fishing waters are being opened all along the coast, which can be done only with the approval of the Food and Drug Administration and after a variety of tests. But many fishermen, who early on were angered at what they saw as premature closings of water where little oil was visible, are now among the most concerned that the waters are being opened too quickly.
The perception of healthy seafood is nearly as important for the business as the reality, and reassuring consumers can be a long and tricky process.
''Alaska, it took them almost five years to overcome their perception challenges,'' said Ewell Smith, the executive director of the Louisiana Seafood Promotion and Marketing Board.
And while BP has recently highlighted its efforts to speed up the claims process, more than two-thirds of claims have not been paid, mostly because adjusters are waiting on documentation that may be hard to come by for many in the largely cash-driven fishing business.
But the economic worries still come back to a fundamental disagreement: many residents simply do not believe that the oil is going away anytime soon, whatever scientists are saying.
''Smell that?'' asked Forrest A. Travirca III, driving along the beach at Port Fourchon, La., on Monday. He climbed out of his cart and waded into the surf, where low tide had exposed mud flats, thick and dark with oil to a depth of three inches. The sight could be found up and down the beach.
Mr. Travirca, the field inspector for the Edward Wisner Donation, a nonprofit land trust, said that the oil had probably accumulated since late May, left by subcontracted cleanup crews that had done an incomplete job.
Both BP and federal response officials repeat that the cleanup will not be over until the beaches and marshes are clean, and that crews will not leave until local officials are satisfied. Mr. Travirca said the cleanup had been improving and gave high marks to the Coast Guard.
But the oil-caked mud flats provoked concern about the oil that may be unseen, buried all along the beach or sitting on the seabed offshore. Federal scientists said they had found that oil was not gathering on the floor of the gulf, but Mr. Travirca said he had a hard time believing that.
Fishermen are also keenly concerned about shrimp, crab and finfish larvae. If the larvae are in jeopardy, it may not be known until future fishing seasons, even after the cleanup ends.
Scientists have found hydrocarbons and possibly dispersant in samples of crab and fish larvae, but say that it is premature to draw any conclusions about the long-term effects.
That uncertainty is not reassuring, and to many here it is, in its own way, proof of deception. Response officials acknowledge that the use of dispersants was a trade-off, exposing marine life to risk but preventing a thorough oiling of the beaches and fragile marshes. And for such a huge spill, it has had a relatively small coastal impact.
But others say it was also convenient that the dispersant kept most of the oil out of public view.
''I think probably in the long term the application of the dispersants, at least at the wellhead, probably was the right thing to do,'' said Dr. William E. Hawkins, director of the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory of the University of Southern Mississippi. ''But cynically I might say BP might have done it for the wrong reasons.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Forrest A. Travirca III, inspector for a land trust, said it was hard to believe some assertions about the spill after seeing oil-soaked mud flats near Port Fourchon, La. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF HALLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (79%); OIL SPILLS (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (74%); HURRICANES (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); OIL EXPLORATION (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); LAWYERS (66%); LITIGATION (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



96 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Intel Settles With F.T.C. On Antitrust

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT and ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Intel agreed to refrain from a host of business practices to settle accusations of anticompetitive behavior in the market for computer processing and graphics chips, under a settlement announced on Wednesday with the Federal Trade Commission.
Capping several settlements by Intel, the agreement resolves regulators' complaints that the company thwarted the efforts of Advanced Micro Devices, Nvidia and other competitors.
But it was unclear whether Intel was any worse off for having been charged with flexing its monopoly muscles. The company has thrived in many ways since the actions came to light. 
The settlement prohibits Intel from paying customers to buy its computer chips exclusively or paying them to reject chips from other manufacturers. It also prohibits Intel from redesigning its chips purely to harm a competitor.
Intel agreed not to retaliate against computer makers if they did business with other suppliers. Intel must modify agreements with other makers of computer chips so they are free to merge or form joint ventures without the threat of patent infringement lawsuits from Intel. The company is also required to maintain for at least six years a feature that will not limit the performance of graphics processing chips made by others, and to disclose that its computer compilers might discriminate between its chips and those of other companies, and therefore not might register all of the features of non-Intel chips.
The company accepted all the terms of the settlement without admitting that it had committed any anticompetitive acts.
The trade commission brought its suit in December, claiming that Intel, the world's leading maker of computer chips, had illegally used its dominant market position for at least a decade to stifle competition and strengthen its monopoly.
The agency has no legal authority to assess fines, although it can bring a civil suit for violations of its settlement order. The settlement requires Intel to establish a $10 million fund to help business customers reformulate their software products if they were misled by Intel.
Jon Leibowitz, the chairman of the F.T.C., said that the settlement ''provides 'fencing-in' protection to ensure that Intel doesn't come up with new ways to undermine competition.''
''Just as important, it provides this relief right away, so it helps consumers now, which is critical in a dynamic industry such as this one,'' Mr. Leibowitz said.
The commission will seek public comment before the settlement is completed.
In a statement, Intel's general counsel, A. Douglas Melamed, said the settlement allowed the company ''to put an end to the expense and distraction of the F.T.C. litigation.''
''This agreement provides a framework that will allow us to continue to compete and to provide our customers the best possible products at the best prices,'' Mr. Melamed said.
The agency brought its claims under Section 5 of the F.T.C. Act, a law that is broader than the antitrust laws and that affords Intel a measure of protection against private lawsuits that could subject it to stiff financial penalties.
Unlike an antitrust violation, a violation of Section 5 may not be used to establish liability for plaintiffs to seek triple damages in private litigation against the same defendant.
Advanced Micro Devices, Intel's main rival, settled its own antitrust complaint against Intel in November with Intel agreeing to pay $1.25 billion.
Harry Wolin, general counsel at A.M.D., said the company was pleased with the Intel settlement, which should help to level the playing field. ''A.M.D.'s critical remaining concern was Intel's use of all-or-nothing discounts to deny competitors access to the marketplace,'' Mr. Wolin said. ''The F.T.C.'s order clearly and firmly prohibits such abuse and guarantees ongoing monitoring of Intel's conduct.''
New York State still has litigation pending against Intel.
Intel has spent years squaring off against regulators in Asia, Europe and the United States over charges related to anticompetitive practices. Last May, the European Commission fined Intel a record $1.45 billion, concluding that it had hampered competition in the market for PC and computer server chips.
Most of the previous actions against Intel focused on claims that it had used rebates and other payment programs to keep computer makers and retailers from selling products with A.M.D. chips.
From about 2003 to 2006, A.M.D. offered a line of chips that analysts and many computer makers hailed as superior to Intel's products. Executives from A.M.D. contended that Intel blunted the adoption of these chips through its financial arrangements.
The F.T.C.'s complaint trod familiar ground but also raised questions about Intel's behavior in the graphics chip market, which is dominated by Nvidia and A.M.D. Since the agency filed its complaints, Intel has tempered an effort to enter the market for stand-alone graphics chips that go into home and business computers. Instead, Intel has declared its intention to focus on competing against Nvidia and A.M.D. through a niche chip made to handle scientific and industrial applications.
The legal actions against Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., have brought to light many unflattering e-mails exchanged between its top executives and customers.
In particular, communications between Intel and Dell have shown executives talking about rebates bestowed on Dell for its decision to abstain from using A.M.D. products. In one such exchange, Paul S. Otellini, the chief executive at Intel, described Dell as ''the best friend money can buy.''
Last month, Dell paid $100 million to settle accounting fraud charges leveled by the Securities and Exchange Commission tied to the rebates it received from Intel.
Intel has recovered well from a severe drop in sales during the heart of the recession and has posted record results in recent quarters. A.M.D. has spent the last couple of years trying to restructure its business and improve its financial performance. The company withdrew from the expensive chip manufacturing business and now concentrates on designing chips.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon Leibowitz, chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, held a chip at a news conference Wednesday on the Intel settlement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); LITIGATION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (75%); LAWYERS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); PATENT LAW (67%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (67%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%); PATENTS (52%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (90%); NVIDIA CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); AMD (NYSE) (90%); AMD (FRA) (90%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



97 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Service Sector Grew More Than Forecast

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Growth in the United States service sector picked up in July, according to a trade group's survey, in a good sign for the overall economy and the job market. 
The Institute for Supply Management said Wednesday that its service-sector index rose to 54.3 last month, up from 53.8 in June. Economists had expected a pullback to 53 for July.
Levels above 50 signal growth. July was the seventh consecutive month of expansion.
The index shows service companies have been expanding every month this year, but at a less robust pace than the manufacturing sector. They are more dependent on consumer spending, which has grown only modestly because unemployment remains near 10 percent.
The slow recovery in the service sector this year had put a damper on overall hiring, since it accounts for about 80 percent of American employment. Service jobs include those in hospitals, shops, restaurants, airlines, banks and consulting firms.
July's report suggested improvement. The index showed businesses reported that new orders, an indicator of future business, grew faster last month. A measure of hiring expectations also expanded in July for only the second time since December 2007, when the recession began. It had ticked slightly over 50 in May before shrinking to 49.7 in June. The July reading was 50.9.
At that level, the hiring index typically corresponds to monthly increases of nearly 100,000 private sector jobs, Paul Ashworth, Capital Economics analyst, said.
Economists expect that the economy lost 65,000 jobs in July because the federal government laid off employees who had been hired temporarily as Census workers, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. Private sector payrolls would rise by about 100,000 in July, Ryan Wang, an economist with HSBC, predicted, about the same pace of job growth from earlier this year, on average. The private sector added 593,000 jobs in the first six months of the year.
Private sector employers added 42,000 net jobs during July, according to the payrolls processor ADP, which releases a monthly employment survey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (79%); RECESSION (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); CENSUS (69%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



98 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Frantic Trade In Fannie's Penny Stock

BYLINE: By DAVID GILLEN

 BODY:
It is flotsam of the housing wreck, a stock no longer worthy of the Big Board. But penny by penny, the mortgage giant Fannie Mae is being salvaged in the stock market.
Nearly two years after it was effectively nationalized, Fannie Mae has become the nation's hottest penny stock -- and, perhaps, its most dangerous. Even though the shares are almost worthless, they are changing hands at a furious pace. Since June, about 31 million of them have been traded on a typical day, more than triple the average for Goldman Sachs shares.
All those Fannie Mae shares do not add up to much money. The stock closed at 40 cents Wednesday, about the cost of a first-class postage stamp. In mid-2007, before the housing market deflated, it fetched nearly $85. 
''The volumes are astonishing,'' said Bose T. George, a financial analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods. ''It's like a casino.''
The knockdown price partly explains why Fannie Mae typically ranks among the liveliest financial shares in the market: it doesn't cost much to take a flier on Fannie.
But the Lilliputian price also explains why Fannie Mae might have buy-and-hold types feeling queasy. A penny or two change in the price translates into a big move in percentage terms. Last week, for instance, Fannie Mae's shares rose 47 percent one day, only to sink 14 percent the next.
Behind all of this commotion are day traders, those creatures of the dot-com era. Mutual funds and other institutions have mostly abandoned Fannie Mae, as well as shares of its cousin Freddie Mac. The big money has ceded the marketplace to individuals who are bold enough, or perhaps foolish enough, to gamble on these stocks for a few hours.
Just don't hold Fannie Mae too long, Mr. George advised. He predicted the stock would eventually fall to zero. It is difficult to know what other analysts think, since Mr. George is just about the only one who still covers Fannie Mae's stock. His recommendation is an understated ''underperform'' -- Wall Street code for sell.
''It's not really a stock anymore -- everyone knows this is going to zero,'' he said.
Well, not everyone, at least not right away. But the running interest in Fannie Mae's stock might seem surprising, considering that this company was the Titanic of the mortgage market. During the bubble years, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bought up so many toxic mortgages that the government was forced to take them over. Their stock prices promptly plunged.
The federal government today owns almost 80 percent of Fannie and Freddie, and few people, in Washington or on Wall Street, seem to know what to do with them.
Despite the trading frenzy, Fannie and Freddie have become pariahs. Most big investors won't touch them. As of March 31, Fannie's shareholders included two big money management companies, the Vanguard Group and BlackRock. But together they owned a mere 1.2 percent of the company, a pittance given the size of those investment companies.
Big institutions typically sell if a stock price sinks below $5. Fannie Mae has not traded that high in two years. Last month, both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were ignominiously tossed off the New York Stock Exchange because their share prices had languished below $1 for more than 30 days straight.
And so the once-mighty Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been banished to OTC Bulletin Board, home to lowly penny stocks and thinly traded ''microcap'' companies. As the Securities and Exchange Commission says in its guide for investors: ''Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment.''
The question of what to do with these troubled giants vexes policy makers and bankers alike. Together, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee roughly half of the nation's $11 trillion home mortgage market. The new overhaul of financial regulation did nothing to address the companies, even though they played a central role in inflating the housing bubble.
The Obama administration plans to hold a conference on the future of housing on Aug. 17 to seek advice about reforming the rules governing mortgage finance. The goal is to deliver a proposal to Congress by January.
What that proposal will say is anyone's guess. Fannie and Freddie's harshest critics want the companies shut down. But even banking executives concede that, for now, the federal government will probably have to play some role in mortgage finance, given the industry's dependence on Fannie and Freddie.
''The fundamental problem with Fannie and Freddie is that no one really knows what to do with them,'' said Bert Ely, a financial and monetary policy consultant based in Alexandria, Va., and a longtime critic of the companies. Until Washington comes up with answers, the day traders will no doubt try to ride the swings in Fannie Mae and pocket some more pennies while they still can.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Employees of Spear, Leeds & Kellogg Specialists at the post where their firm traded Fannie Mae in September 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENNY RAY ABRAMS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); TOXIC ASSETS (73%); POSTAL RATES (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



99 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: September Senate Debate Likely on Tax Cuts for Rich

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate leaders said Wednesday that debate would most likely begin in September over whether to let the Bush income tax cuts for the rich expire at the end of this year as scheduled, setting up a new battle just weeks before the midterm elections.
Nervousness among politically vulnerable Democrats had led some in the party to predict that Congress would not take up the issue until after the elections, in a lame-duck session. But partisan lines have already been forming. Republicans, emboldened by President Obama's slipping support in the polls, charge that Democrats are advocating a big tax increase; Democrats counter that Republicans are shilling for the wealthy and driving up the national debt. 
Mr. Obama, in a speech to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. executive committee, alluded to the issue in reviewing his administration's efforts to emerge from what he called ''the hole'' Republicans dug in the Bush years. Advisers said he would engage more fully when Congress turns to the issue.
For now it is Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner who has emerged as the point man in the administration's offensive to let the high-end tax cuts expire and extend those for the middle class.
''Permanently extending the tax cuts for the top 2 percent would require us to borrow $700 billion more in the next decade, adding significantly to an already unsustainable level of debt,'' Mr. Geithner said in remarks at an event jointly hosted by the Center for American Progress, a Democratic-leaning research and advocacy organization, and the American Action Forum, a Republican-oriented group.
Mr. Geithner described the administration's fiscal policies, which have sought to balance short-term stimulus measures with proposals to move toward long-term deficit reduction, as ''pro-growth'' -- in effect trying to co-opt Republicans' favorite adjective of recent decades for their tax-cutting philosophy.
''So Sec. Geithner believes that tax hikes are 'pro-growth'? Strange position to take,'' Don Stewart, the spokesman for Senator Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, wrote in an e-mail. ''Makes you wonder why they didn't raise taxes 18 months ago, if tax hikes are so 'pro-growth.' ''
Both Mr. Geithner and the president hammered on the theme that administration policies point the way forward while Republicans would take the country back to the days of the Bush administration, and not just on tax policy.
Mr. Obama told the labor leaders they must remind their members, ''this election is a choice,'' between ''these folks who drove America's economy into a ditch'' and the Democrats who for 20 months have ''been shoving that car out of the ditch inch by inch'' as Republicans stood by.
''And now we've finally got that car up on the blacktop there, about to drive, and they say they want the keys back. Well, you can't have the keys because you don't know how to drive,'' Mr. Obama said, to laughter.
He added, ''Somebody pointed out to me that when you're in a car and you want to go forward, you put it in 'D.' You want to go back in the ditch? You put it on 'R.' ''
All of the 2001 and 2003 income tax cuts are scheduled to expire after this year, an expiration written into law at the time they were passed to hold down estimates of the measures' impact on future annual budget deficits.
Mr. Obama pledged in his election campaign that he would maintain the tax cuts past 2010 for the roughly 98 percent of American households in which families make less than $250,000 a year or individual filers make less than $200,000.
Republicans, who have opposed the administration's other stimulus spending and tax cuts, have seized on the recovery's slowdown to argue that the Bush tax cuts should continue for wealthy Americans, emphasizing that the group includes some small-business owners who file their tax returns as individuals.
The administration and most Congressional Democrats counter that just 2 percent of small businesses have enough income to be affected should the top tax rates revert to their pre-Bush levels. More generally, they argue that extending the tax cuts for the rich would add to the nation's dangerously rising debt; so do the tax cuts for everyone else, but Democrats point to nonpartisan studies showing that tax cuts for lower-income households are a far more effective way of spurring the economy because they spend the extra money while most wealthy taxpayers generally save it.
Yet a few Congressional Democrats in Republican-leaning districts and states are reluctant to have the tax fight right before November's elections. That has led to talk that all the tax cuts will be extended for a year or two.
Mr. Geithner said even a temporary extension would be a mistake. In international forums, he has cited the tax cuts' expiration as a major way in which the United States will begin reducing its projected debt.
''The world,'' he said, ''is likely to view any temporary extension of the income tax cuts for the top 2 percent as a prelude to a long-term or permanent extension, and that would hurt economic recovery as well by undermining confidence that we're prepared to make a commitment today to bring down our future deficits.''
As stimulus, Mr. Geithner added, the $30 billion needed for a one-year extension would be better spent for more middle-class tax cuts, business investment incentives or aid to hard-pressed states.
And he dismissed as ''myths'' Republican arguments that tax cuts pay for themselves, by bringing in new revenues from economic growth, and that small businesses would be hurt. ''This is a political argument masquerading as substance,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy F. Geithner (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



100 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Tips From Europe On I.P.O. for G.M.

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and JAMES PETHOKOUKIS

 BODY:
The Obama administration should brush up on recent European financial history. That could help it pitch the coming initial public offering of General Motors. If the I.P.O. is priced too high and flops, it will be much harder for the government to offload the rest of its shares without losing money in future sales. But if G.M.'s stock market debut is priced too low and shares surge, the White House would risk accusations of favoring Wall Street at the expense of taxpayers.
Europe's privatizations of the 1980s and 1990s provide some tips. Large portions of the deals were sold to the general public. Allocating a sizable part of G.M.'s offering later this year to American citizens rather than to institutional investors would be one way to allow the wider public to share any upside in the stock of a company saved from extinction by taxpayer largess. 
G.M. could run a blind I.P.O. auction as Google did, and allow only individuals to buy stock -- an idea recently bandied about by CNBC reporters. That's possible, although institutional investors, for example, managing the pensions of individuals can be more stable owners and, at least in theory, exert greater influence on company management.
The Europeans struck an instructive balance. In some cases, as much as half the shares of a privatization I.P.O. were sold to retail investors. That's far more than the 20 percent usually allocated in American deals. Governments also used incentives to entice individuals: they could buy at a discount to the offering price and pay for shares in installments. That happened with the first big deal, British Telecom, in 1984.
To discourage flipping, some privatizations offered individuals extra shares at no charge if they held their stakes for a year. To combat fears of a stock market drop, some governments guaranteed to cover the first 10 percent of losses, as Italy did with the privatization of Eni, the oil and gas company, in 1995.
Involving individual investors on such a scale might defuse any desire to try to price the deal too high. And offering preferential treatment would make them the biggest beneficiaries if G.M.'s shares skyrocketed. It would mean more work for the deal's underwriters, who are already being paid a record low fee. But G.M.'s share sale is arguably a de facto privatization, and American taxpayers deserve to share any benefit.
A Fix to Avoid
Is it time for another ''free'' lunch? One idea from Wall Street to increase growth is for the government to loosen rules so millions more Americans can refinance mortgages, thereby freeing up cash for spending. The plan might sound tempting for a desperate Washington, but it's too reminiscent of how the economy first fell into trouble.
A top Morgan Stanley economist ran the ''slam dunk stimulus'' plan past the Senate Budget Committee on Tuesday. With the political mood making it almost impossible to contemplate spending more taxpayer money to juice demand, the suggestion is a different route to stimulus -- namely having government-run mortgage lenders ease the refinancing rules on 37 million mortgages they currently guarantee. That would open a door for the many homeowners unable to take advantage of low interest rates because they owe more than their houses are worth, are unemployed or have low credit scores.
The logic is that with the government already on the hook for these loans, there's nothing to lose from dispensing with any creditworthiness criteria for refinancing. The median interest rate on the mortgages concerned is 5.75 percent. A borrower with a typical $200,000 mortgage who could refinance at 4.5 percent would be better off to the tune of $2,500 a year. If, as Morgan Stanley guesstimates, half the affected homeowners took advantage, they would collectively have an extra $46 billion a year to spend.
One problem is that the government has struggled to streamline the refinancing process. Another is figuring out who would pay any associated fees. But most important, the whole idea seems like a deliberate re-creation of the supercheap credit and lax lending standards that led to the financial crisis in the first place.
The approaching elections mean Washington is filled with jittery politicians who might latch onto a ''hair of the dog'' fix for a sluggish economy. Better they should push themselves away from the bar.
ANTONY CURRIE and JAMES PETHOKOUKIS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cadillacs by G.M., which is expected to hold an initial public offering this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); AUCTIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



101 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Senate Vote Clears Way for Billions In Aid to States and School Districts

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Wednesday cleared the way for a $26 billion package of aid to states and school districts, and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, said she would summon members from their summer recess to grant final approval to the bill.
The measure had been hung up by partisan wrangling between Democrats, who said it was necessary to avert layoffs of teachers and cutbacks in services by strapped states, and Republicans, who objected to another round of government spending and characterized it as a political payoff to unions. 
The procedural vote in the Senate was 61 to 38, with the Maine Republicans, Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe, joining Democrats in support of ending debate. The Senate is set for a final vote on Thursday before adjourning for its recess.
The vote quickly prompted calls for the House, which adjourned last Friday, to return to Washington. And in a Twitter message Wednesday, Ms. Pelosi said lawmakers would reconvene next week to approve the bill and send it to President Obama.
The legislation would provide $10 billion to retain teachers who might otherwise lose jobs to cutbacks, and an additional $16 billion to help states struggling to close budget deficits.
While the move will interrupt summer campaigning, the vote will give Democrats a concrete accomplishment that they can trumpet at a time when unemployment remains high. Republicans, in turn, immediately criticized the bill as catering to teachers' unions and another example of irresponsible spending by Democrats.
Mr. Obama praised the Senate's action, saying in a statement that it would save teacher jobs and ensure ''cash-strapped states can get the relief they need.''
''We had a choice,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. ''Either teachers could be in the classroom or they could be on the unemployment lines.''
The House had approved money to save teacher jobs as part of an emergency war spending bill. But the Senate rejected it.
Some senators complained that the House bill had cut some of Mr. Obama's signature education initiatives, including about $500 million from the competitive grant program called Race to the Top.
The cost of the Senate bill is fully paid with other spending cuts and a provision to close a tax loophole.
House Republicans criticized the Senate measure.
''Democrats would be better off listening to their constituents, who are asking, 'Where are the jobs?' rather than returning to Washington, D.C., to vote for more tax hikes and special-interest bailouts,'' said Michael Steel, a spokesman for Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader.
Many governors have been clamoring for help for their states.
The $16.1 billion in aid to states would increase the federal contribution toward Medicaid costs, allowing states to shift money elsewhere.
''We saved people's jobs,'' the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said after the vote. ''The bill,'' he added, ''keeps hundreds of thousands of teachers, firefighters, policemen and other civil employees from being fired or laid off.''
Republican leaders said that the aid had too many strings attached, and that what Democrats called a tax ''loophole'' would amount to a nearly $10 billion tax increase on multinational corporations.
''Washington needs to take care of its own fiscal mess, not deepen it by bailing out the states,'' said the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.
Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said the bill was a sop to organized labor. ''It's to pay off education unions,'' he said.
Democrats said the measure would save as many as 140,000 teaching jobs.
While returning to the Capitol would disrupt campaign activities -- August is a busy month to shoot commercials and raise money -- it could also help Democrats avoid cantankerous town-hall-style meetings with constituents.
Several lawmakers also planned to be on international fact-finding trips, and it was unclear if everyone could make it back to Washington.
In her Twitter message, Ms. Pelosi said that duty called. ''I will be calling the House back into session early next week to save teachers' jobs and help seniors & children,'' she wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX LAW (73%); MEDICAID (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); TAX INCREASES (60%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (88%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



102 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Pulte Posts Its First Profit in Three Years

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
PulteGroup, the nation's largest home builder, said Wednesday that it returned to a quarterly profit for the first time in more than three years in the second quarter as Americans rushed to buy homes in time to qualify for federal tax credits. 
The builder's acquisition last year of a rival, the Centex Corporation, was crucial, bolstering its inventory of homes geared for first-time buyers, many of whom seized on the government incentives to become homeowners.
The chief executive, Richard J. Dugas Jr., said buyer demand fell after the tax credit expired in April. It has since been stable, but well below normal levels.
''At this point, we still feel that we can be profitable for the year, but given the pullback in demand, it's going to be a steeper hill than we thought,'' Mr. Dugas said.
The tax credits helped bring buyers back into the market last year and again this spring, increasing sales for home builders slogging through the worst real estate downturn in decades.
But since the incentives expired on April 30, the number of people looking to buy has fallen, even with the availability of the lowest mortgage rates in decades.
PulteGroup said net income totaled $76.3 million, or 20 cents a share. That is in contrast to a loss of $189.5 million, or 74 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue rose 92 percent, to $1.31 billion, from $678.6 million. Revenue benefited from the addition of Centex, which helped double closing volumes.
The quarterly results also include about $45 million in land and mortgage charges, plus an $82 million benefit from income taxes.
Pulte's new home orders rose 25 percent from the previous year, to 4,218. Factor in Centex's totals, however, and new orders for the combined company fell 32 percent.
Regionally, new orders held up best in the company's Gulf Coast, Southeast and Northeast markets, with gains in Texas, north and central Florida, the Carolinas and Tennessee leading to an increase in orders from May to June.
Orders slowed primarily in the Midwest, Southwest and Western areas, with demand sinking the most in Arizona and Nevada.
Mr. Dugas said the company was not going to lower prices across the board to chase buyers even as it faced weaker demand now that the tax credit incentive was gone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); MORTGAGE RATES (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: PULTEGROUP INC (92%); CENTEX CORP (72%)

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD J DUGAS JR (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



103 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CROSSROADS COUNTY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Voters in Colorado Swing With the Economy

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
FORT COLLINS, Colo. -- Two years ago, as the election season roared toward November, people here in northern Colorado feared the economy was headed for a cliff. They sought refuge in voting for Democrats in numbers not seen in generations.
As a result, this historically Republican county went Democratic, with beneficiaries ranging from President Obama, who carried the county and the state, all the way down to the state representative on the city's east side -- the first Democrat since the 1930s to win a second consecutive term.
The cliff and the abyss never came, at least not for Fort Collins and Larimer County, a swing county in this swing state. Both fared better in the recession than most of Colorado and the nation. But the fear, it turns out, never went away, and the big question of the November midterm election, as well as next week's Colorado primary, is whether that abiding fear will overcome the relatively healthy economy here, and sweep away the same Democrats it benefited in the last election -- no matter that the malls and restaurants seem full.
''People are far more scared this time,'' said Lisa Chaubal, an independent voter and a stay-at-home mother. Her husband, Raj, works for a software company that has actually quadrupled its work force in the last two years. 
''We're in a little pocket here in Fort Collins that hasn't been as devastated -- and so we just sit here and cross our fingers,'' she said.
Insecurity is the political coin of the realm in this year's midterm elections, especially for Democrats, but also for many incumbents and establishment candidates. As control of the United States House of Representatives potentially hangs in the balance (and, some say, the Senate too), Colorado promises to be both a bellwether and a decider.
This state represents a major swing region -- the Rocky Mountain West -- coveted by both Republicans and Democrats; the political and ideological counterpoint to the industrial Midwest, another major swing region. And Larimer County, about an hour north of Denver, is -- in its diversity of interests and allegiances -- representative of Colorado.
With a population of about 300,000 and an area about the size of Delaware, Larimer is where the high plains meet the mountains. Agricultural and Republican in its roots, but increasingly linked to the high-tech and renewable-energy economy, which leans Democratic, the county is a microcosm of Colorado's future, people in both parties say, but it is also a suspense thriller of contrasts, conflicts and plot twists about where that future might lead.
In dozens of interviews around town in recent days, many people said they thought that the corrosive, hidden damage from the recession -- largely invisible behind the facade of well-maintained neighborhoods, but troubling the hearts and minds of the voters nonetheless -- could swing the vote.
''The people of Fort Collins and Larimer are smart,'' said Cory Gardner, the Republican candidate for the state's Fourth Congressional District, which was captured by a Democrat, Representative Betsy Markey, in 2008 after 35 years of Republican dominance. ''They know if we don't get a handle on runaway spending in Washington, D.C., then it will drag everybody down.''
Ms. Markey, whose re-election is considered a tossup, has been careful not to crow too loudly about the economy's performance. She emphasized in an interview that as a former small-business owner herself, she knew that the storm clouds were still scary. The Fourth District spreads out across a huge swath of eastern Colorado farm country, but about half the voters live in just one county: Larimer.
''We are poised for growth,'' she said.
Here, the economy has certainly surpassed social issues since 2008.
Larimer was, in elections past, a center of the deeply divided social debate in Colorado over issues like abortion and same-sex marriage. But in the two years since Ms. Markey defeated former Representative Marilyn Musgrave -- a Republican who wore conservative bona fides like a badge, especially her opposition to same-sex marriage -- all that has changed, too.
Mr. Gardner, pressed several times in an interview for his views on abortion and same-sex marriage, simply declined to answer.
''Those issues haven't come up very often,'' he said.
And even some residents like Jan Babcock, who opposes abortion and supported Ms. Musgrave, now say they think the unsolvable debate about social issues can get in the way of productive government.
Of the roughly 165,000 registered, active voters in the county as of last month, Republicans had an edge, with close to 37 percent of the total, to 29 percent for the Democrats. Unaffiliated voters, 34 percent of the total, will be the final arbiters of the election.
''Let's just get rid of these polarized issues that we're never going to agree on,'' Ms. Babcock said. ''It just hinders us from doing anything.''
David Ambrosich, a systems analyst and a Republican, said he was similarly turned off by any candidate associated with the Tea Party movement.
''I don't like the rabid tone,'' he said.
Ms. Markey said she hoped talk like that would work to her advantage and that of other Democrats. Moderation and steady work on job creation, she tells constituents, is the path through the darkness of insecurity, not extremism and fear.
''Jobs and the economy -- that's how I ran in 2008, that was my focus then, and it is now,'' she said.
There has been some real economic damage here.
The unemployment rate, though below the state's and the nation's, was still 6.8 percent in June, according to the most recent state figures, down from 7.4 percent a year earlier.
But a study released in June by the Brookings Institution also ranked the Fort Collins area as having the second-best-performing small city economy in the Intermountain West. It was one of only three places among 21 examined in the study where employment had contracted less than 5 percent during the recession, from 2007 to the first quarter of 2010.
Only Boulder, generally considered the most liberal corner of Colorado, outperformed Fort Collins among the 21 smaller Western metro areas examined by the study.
On a recent afternoon on the east side of Fort Collins, a volunteer for Mr. Gardner was knocking on doors offering candidate literature.
A man who appeared to be in his 50s responded and said he had been laid off this year after decades at Hewlett-Packard, which has a large research campus here.
''Jobs, jobs, jobs,'' he said, when asked what his concerns were. He refused to give his name and closed the door.
Erica Michel, a day care provider who was sitting in a local park on a recent morning watching her charges, said her husband lost his job two years ago and now commutes to the Denver area. She has also lost day care clients, as parents who once needed help are now home unemployed and watching their own children. Ms. Michel, a Republican, said she was worried about schools, jobs and health care.
Mr. Ambrosich's wife, Julia, said she was firmly in the Democratic fold, but also deeply concerned about economics -- in her case, about possible city budget cuts at the local botanical garden where she works.
Other people, including some who have moved to Colorado during the downturn, said they have been happy with the change, at least economically.
''It's a hundred times better,'' said Angela Reis, who moved from central Oregon last year with her husband, Steve, and their three children. Mr. Reis had lost his job in the car painting industry and quickly found one here, she said.
As for Colorado politics, though, she is not so sure. Mr. Reis arrived as a Republican and will continue to vote that way here, she said. Mrs. Reis said she was unhappy with both parties and might not vote at all.
Mr. Gardner, the Republican candidate, said the question for Larimer County was not where things are now, but where they would be in the future, and that was what had people shaking in their boots.
''People are desperately afraid of what happens next week,'' he said.
Crossroads County: Articles in this series will examine the political issues, voters and stakes in Larimer County, Colo., one swing county in a crucial swing state.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve and Angela Reis moved to Larimer County last year from central Oregon with their three children, among them Sofia, 4. ''It's a hundred times better,'' Angela Reis said. (A14)
 Larimer County has agricultural roots, but is linked to the high-tech, renewable-energy economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) CHART: A Key Battleground: Larimer County, Colo., is an important battleground for Democrats this fall. Though the county voted for Obama in 2008, it has a history of supporting Republican candidates. (Source: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LABOR FORCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (99%); MIDWEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



104 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Working for New York City, But Living Somewhere Else

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
When Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appointed Ranji Nagaswami as the administration's first chief investment adviser this week, city officials acknowledged that she had been granted a residency waiver so she could continue to live in Greenwich, Conn. 
Which raises the question: How many other waivers have been allowed since Mr. Bloomberg became mayor in 2002?
The answer, according to city data, is 30, and they range from an intelligence research specialist for the Police Department who lives in Fanwood, N.J., to an inspector general at the Department of Investigation who lives in Larchmont, N.Y.
Most of the 6,500 or so people who have been classified by the city as administrators or managers live in the five boroughs.
But Mark Daly, a spokesman for the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which provides the waivers, said that city had occasionally granted exemptions for different reasons: for new hires in positions that have been hard to fill with a city resident, for longtime employees who have been promoted into a position that falls under the residency rules and for employees with personal hardships.
The data suggest that such waivers have been dispensed fairly steady since 2002, with the most being six in 2008, and the fewest being one in 2005. Since December 2009, five such waivers have been granted, with the reason being ''recruitment very difficult'' for four of them. These include Patrick Timlin, deputy commissioner of operations at the Police Department, who lives in Long Beach, on Long Island; and Elizabeth Botwin, a deputy commissioner at the Department of Finance, who lives in Rockville Centre, on Long Island.
Of course, the definition of residency has always been a subjective one well before Mr. Bloomberg took office: stories abound about top officials who live primarily in Westchester, New Jersey or Long Island, say, but maintain a pied-a-terre in Manhattan.
Mr. Bloomberg has generally opposed loosening residency requirements, saying that allowing city workers to move away can hurt the local economy. In 2005, for instance, he opposed a law, signed by Gov. George E. Pataki, which eased residency rules for city sanitation workers. Last year, he vetoed two bills passed by the City Council to allow city workers to move out after two years of residency; those vetoes were overridden. So in response, he issued an executive order in February requiring that the city's top officials in charge of making policy and day-to-day operations be required to live in the city.
Unless, of course, they obtain a waiver.
But over all, good-government watchdogs said that the exemption list was interesting, but not of much concern.
''It's a relatively modest number,'' said Gene Russianoff, a staff lawyer for the New York Public Interest Research Group. ''If there was much more of an out-of-town government, I'd be more concerned.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); MAYORS (90%); VETO (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



105 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Still in the Time of Economic Anxiety

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Welcome to the Recovery,'' by Timothy F. Geithner, the secretary of the Treasury (Op-Ed, Aug. 3):
Forgive me, Mr. Geithner, if I remain skeptical. Recovering? I think a very temporary remission is more accurate.
''We suffered a terrible blow, but we are coming back,'' you say. No one I know went anywhere. Their savings went, their investments went, their jobs went, their homes went. And those who took them -- and received obscene bonuses for doing so -- are coming back for even more.
My question is, Where are we going? We, the public, the average person upon whom the health and well-being of the nation rests. The reality is that there are not enough good jobs for everyone, housing prices are still far too high, lenders are making it increasingly hard to borrow, credit card companies are still being allowed to charge exorbitant interest and no one that I know is saving; every penny goes to keep body and soul together.
Insecurity -- financial, emotional and physical -- is creating increasing health problems, yet crucial public services, which could at least help in the short term, are being cut to the bone. 
What I have learned in the last few years is that the private sector plays fast and loose with the public welfare, and no one seems to care. The gulf between rich and poor is huge and getting wider every day.
Coming back? We're still on the edge, and it's still crumbling.
Susan A. McGregor North Kingston, R.I., Aug. 3, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''Defining Prosperity Down,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Aug. 2):
Maybe now we can finally admit that ''trickle down'' economics doesn't work. We've had 25 years of tax cuts (cuts in income taxes, estate taxes and capital gains taxes) for the wealthiest Americans. The myth was that the wealthy would invest that money in ways that would create more jobs and prosperity for the rest of us. It's not working, obviously.
Our return for trickling so much of our wealth upward was supposed to be good jobs and a solid income for the middle class. Instead we've got the wealthy playing hedge fund roulette on Wall Street, while one-sixth of American workers are unemployed or underemployed.
Trickle-down policies increased the wealth gap, but didn't create jobs. The only time in the past decade that we've approached full employment was when the middle class went into debt and spent virtually 100 percent of its income or even more, as it did over the four years before 2008. That ''mortgage and credit'' bubble taught us that the real ''jobs engine'' is middle-class spending.
To get our economy running again (instead of wheezing along), we need to eliminate the Bush tax cuts, eliminate the tax break for hedge fund managers and establish a meaningful estate tax. Keep that money out of the Wall Street casino; invest instead in the middle class.
John Ranta Hancock, N.H., Aug. 2, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''99 Weeks Later, Jobless Have Only Desperation'' (front page, Aug. 3):
The story of Alexandra Jarrin's odyssey from middle-class striver to unemployed and homeless graphically illustrates the terrifying underside of what's left of the American dream.
A week after the 9/11 terror attacks, I was laid off from my position as head of public relations at a publishing house. For the next year and a half, with increasing desperation, I tried to claw my way back into a corporate life in which I had thrived for nearly 20 years.
As it turns out, I was actually one of the lucky ones. My skills were transferable to the entrepreneurial world, and I eventually started an independent public relations firm. But what I learned from that experience is just how far one can fall -- and is allowed to fall -- in the 21st-century United States.
There is very little safety net in this country. For those who make it, this can still be the land of opportunity. But for those who, for whatever reason, lose their grip on what we take for security -- job, home, bank account -- the drop is very long indeed, with no one or nothing to catch you.
Alan Winnikoff Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., Aug. 3, 2010
To the Editor:
In what state of callous cruelty is this country living when it can allow a sizable number of its people to live in cars or on the streets because their unemployment has run out during this long and protracted recession -- all while it still manages to send expensive armaments halfway around the world?
Should we start a citizens' emergency fund, or a clearinghouse where people can donate available housing, or a sponsorship program where you can help someone for six months, since the government does not seem to have the will to do any of this?
Forget about will, how about heart? Where is it?
Shameful, shameful, shameful.
Lynn Lauber Bridport, Vt., Aug. 3, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''Four Deformations of the Apocalypse,'' by David Stockman (Op-Ed, Aug. 1):
During the past 30 years in which Republicans largely dominated the White House and Congress, these so-called conservatives have mortgaged our country to the brink of bankruptcy via reckless spending, borrowing from abroad and giving tax breaks to the rich only to run up today's obscene national debt and trigger our current deep recession.
And when President Obama increases deficits to stimulate the moribund economy -- a strategy recommended by virtually all reputable economists -- the irresponsible Republicans have the nerve to blame his administration for our national debt.
Will the American voters see through this charade? Given our propensity to run up personal debt to buy stuff we don't need with money we don't have, I fear that the answer is no. What a legacy we are leaving future generations.
James G. Goodale Houston, Aug. 1, 2010
To the Editor:
To David Stockman's perceptive analysis, one must add the basic Republican financial strategy dating back at least to Ronald Reagan: Pushing up the deficit makes it difficult or impossible for the Democrats to finance, increase or develop programs disfavored by Republicans. It's that simple.
The Republican arguments for deficit reduction fly in the face of fact, as the Bush administration's policies so clearly show. ''Tax and spend'' Democrats have been upstaged by ''spend and don't tax'' Republicans. The cynicism exceeds imagination.
Doug Giebel Big Sandy, Mont., Aug. 1, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX LAW (85%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); ESTATE TAX (69%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); TAX RELIEF (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (53%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



106 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Blackhawks' Harshest Foe Is Salary Cap

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
Every Chicago Blackhawks player traded this summer or told to seek work elsewhere -- and that list is at eight, and counting -- has been reminded by General Manager Stan Bowman about the team's lofty accomplishment only eight weeks ago.
On a June night in Philadelphia, the Blackhawks won the franchise's first Stanley Cup championship since 1961. As Bowman has said, nobody can take that away. The Blackhawks will walk together forever, as the former Flyers coach Fred Shero once said. 
But, Bowman said in a telephone interview Tuesday, a champion does not have as much of a chance to become a dynasty these days because good players make a lot of money and the league's salary-cap structure makes keeping all of them unaffordable.
''I think the days of old will never be again,'' Bowman said. ''But I don't think that's a bad thing.''
Antti Niemi, the 26-year-old Finnish goaltender who won all 16 games for the Blackhawks in the Stanley Cup playoffs, was the latest to be sent packing when the team announced Monday that it would not re-sign him to a one-year contract.
Bowman said the Blackhawks would instead sign the free-agent goaltender Marty Turco, who had spent his nine-year N.H.L. career with the Dallas Stars. Turco, 34, signed a one-year, $1.3 million contract and has been handed the starting job.
''You can still maintain a high level,'' Bowman said. ''We intend to make a run at competing again this year.''
From an economic standpoint, the Blackhawks' decision made sense. Niemi, who made $826,000 as a rookie last year, was a restricted free agent who was awarded a $2.75 million contract last week by an arbitrator. By switching goalies, the Blackhawks saved $1.45 million. But Niemi was a Cup-winning goaltender -- a label that has perhaps more of an aura than Super Bowl-winning quarterback because the Stanley Cup playoffs are a two-month, four-round grind. A Cup winner may not have the best goalie, but it does have a tested goalie.
''We knew something like this might happen,'' Bill Zito, Niemi's agent, who is based in Chicago, said in a telephone interview Tuesday. ''But for a team to walk on a 26-year-old goaltender who just came into his own and won a Stanley Cup, that was a surprise.''
Zito said Niemi would probably have offers from several teams. Zito said the Blackhawks had to make hard decisions on the players they wanted to keep, and they decided that they wanted to keep other players over Niemi.
According to the arbitrator, Niemi had earned a raise. Zito said he thought the Blackhawks might have been able to find a way to get that salary to fit under the N.H.L.'s salary cap of $59.4 million a team. Bowman said the Blackhawks exhausted all options to make it work.
''Antti is as disappointed as any human being would be,'' Zito said.
Even on the night they won the Cup, between skating around the ice with the Cup and posing for photos, Blackhawks players talked about how the team would probably be dismantled because it was facing an enormous salary-cap challenge.
Soon, critical Chicago role players like Dustin Byfuglien, Brent Sopel, Colin Fraser, Kris Versteeg, Ben Eager, Andrew Ladd and Adam Burish were let go. Added were less expensive players like John Scott, from Minnesota, and Viktor Stalberg, from Toronto.
Niemi's departure was perhaps the most drastic example of how the N.H.L.'s salary cap, while leveling the competitive field, has played havoc with team stability. And the Blackhawks, like other teams, are stuck with players with bloated contracts. The underachieving Chicago defenseman Brian Campbell, whose salary counts a whopping $7.1 million against the cap, has a no-trade clause in his contract. The Blackhawks also had to pay performance bonuses to their two top players, Jonathan Toews and Patrick Kane, and had signed forward Marian Hossa to a 12-year, $62.8 million contract.
''As a fan, you don't really spend a lot of time worrying about the system,'' Bowman said Tuesday. ''You don't really sweat the details.''
He added that the long-dormant Blackhawks attracted so many people to hockey with their run to the Cup that, as he said of the fans: ''They say: 'Hey, wait a minute. What's going on here? We just got used to these guys. Now you're trading them away.' ''
Bowman said in a teleconference Monday that the team tried to sign Niemi, including making at least one multiple-year offer, before his case went to an arbitrator. Niemi turned them down.
The Blackhawks' core remains intact. The talented young forwards Toews and Kane, who scored the Cup-winning goal in overtime of Game 6 against the Flyers, will be back. The Blackhawks' corps of defensemen, which includes Duncan Keith and Brent Seabrook, is solid. Turco turned down a contract offer from the Flyers, among others, to play in Chicago.
''We had offers from other teams and multiyear deals that didn't suit my eye when I knew there was an opportunity to be part of this great organization,'' Turco said Monday in a conference call from Scotland.
John Madden was another player who circled the ice with the Stanley Cup that night in Philadelphia. Madden, 37, who had helped the Devils win two Stanley Cups, had signed a one-year contract with the Blackhawks and provided support and leadership for young players like Toews and Kane. Madden seemed to know it would end soon.
''I hope this isn't the last,'' he said.
Two months later, he is still looking for a place to play.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Goalie Antti Niemi won all 16 games for the Blackhawks in the Stanley Cup playoffs, but he is no longer with the team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT SLOCUM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%)

COMPANY: DALLAS STARS LP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (94%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (57%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (66%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



107 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Awards Millions For School Innovations

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Teach for America, the nonprofit group that recruits elite college students to teach in public schools, and the KIPP Foundation, which runs a nationwide network of charter schools, were big winners in a $650 million federal grant competition known as Investing in Innovation, the Department of Education said Wednesday.
Each group won $50 million. Two others won large awards for proposals the department said were backed by significant evidence of success with students. 
The Success for All Foundation, a Baltimore group that helps to turn around struggling elementary schools, won $49 million. And Ohio State University, partnered with several other universities, was awarded $46 million to train some 3,750 teachers in the Reading Recovery approach, which focuses on struggling first-grade students.
The department awarded the remaining $455 million in smaller amounts to 45 other nonprofit groups and school districts. About 1,700 groups applied for grants, the department said.
Congress financed the innovation grant competition in last year's economic stimulus, along with the larger, better-known, $4.2 billion competition known as Race to the Top, in which states have put forward proposals for shaking up their school systems.
The innovation competition, in contrast, was open to nonprofit organizations and local school districts.
The $650 million was given out in awards of three levels. The four largest awards of nearly $50 million each went to groups proposing to greatly expand programs, like Teach for America and the KIPP charters, that the department viewed has having been proved successful.
Fifteen second-tier awards of up to $30 million each went to groups with somewhat less-established programs, hoping to solidify their track record and expand. The winners of these so-called validation awards included the Smithsonian Institution, which won about $26 million for a proposal to advance ''inquiry oriented'' science education in hundreds of school districts, and Johns Hopkins University, which was given $30 million to advance its work in overhauling high schools with such dismal graduation rates that the university has identified them as dropout factories.
The smallest awards went to organizations proposing what were basically brainstorms: 30 groups that put forward reasonable ideas that sounded intriguing, however untested, won grants of up to $5 million. Winners included the Jefferson County Schools in Louisville, which proposed increasing the instruction time devoted to students in six low-performing high schools by 30 percent, and the Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Milwaukee, for a plan to provide extra literacy tutoring and after-school help to hundreds of struggling young readers.
As the department developed the innovation competition, it heard considerable criticism that rural school districts were at a significant disadvantage because developing a sophisticated grant proposal was said to be beyond the reach of tiny, remote districts with only a handful of administrators. Hundreds of remote districts have only one school. The department also heard complaints that as the innovation competition, Race to the Top, and other programs have unfolded, little attention has been given to early childhood education.
In the 105-point scoring rubric under which the department judged the innovation proposals, those that could benefit rural schools and those in the early childhood arena were given bonus points, officials said.
In a conference call on Wednesday evening, James Shelton, a deputy assistant secretary of education, defended the fairness of the competition with regard to rural schools and early learning initiatives. In a release, the department said that more than a third of the winning proposals were intended to serve rural schools and more than a quarter were in some way aimed at improving early learning.
Still, some early learning advocates were not impressed. Cornelia Grumman, executive director of the First Five Years Fund, a nonprofit that advocates for early learning initiatives, said that although two groups that focus on early childhood won $5 million awards, she saw little else that advanced pre-kindergarten education.
''I see almost nothing for early ed,'' Ms. Grumman said. ''Despite a whole lot of talk that we've now heard for the last two years coming out of the administration and the Department of Education about integrating early education into K-12 for better student outcomes -- once again it's sounding like just so much empty rhetoric.''
In order to qualify for the awards, all the winning groups must obtain 20 percent matching pledges from foundations or other private sector donors by Sept. 8, the department said. Each of the groups that won $50 million, for instance, must persuade private donors to give an additional $10 million to support their projects.
In the first round of Race to the Top, Tennessee won $500 million and Delaware $100 million. The department says it will divide the $3.4 billion that remains next month among about a dozen states.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (79%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (79%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (79%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (74%); GRADUATION RATES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (72%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (72%); MARYLAND, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



108 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Children Given Nazi Names Won't Return To Parents

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
TRENTON (AP) -- A New Jersey couple who gave their children Nazi-inspired names should not regain custody of them, a state appeals court ruled on Thursday. 
The state removed the three small children of the couple, Heath and Deborah Campbell, from their home in January 2009. A month earlier, the family drew attention when a supermarket near the family's home in Holland Township, in west-central New Jersey, refused to decorate a birthday cake for their son, Adolf Hitler Campbell, now 4. He and his sisters, JoyceLynn Aryan Nation Campbell and Honszlynn Hinler Jeannie Campbell, who are younger, have been in foster care.
A family court determined that there was insufficient evidence that the parents had abused or neglected the children, but a three-judge appeals panel, in reviewing that decision, determined that there was enough evidence not to return the children to their parents' custody. The panel sent the case back to family court for further monitoring.
A gag order remains in place and the parties refused to discuss the decision.
Last year, Heath Campbell accused the state of removing the children because of their names and said government officials were relying on unproven accusations made by a neighbor and by an ex-wife who charged him with abusing her years ago.
In the ruling on Thursday, which did not mention the names or the birthday cake, the court found that there were myriad reasons that proved the need for continued protection services for the children. According to court records, both parents are unemployed. The court found that both parents were themselves victims of childhood abuse and said that they had not ''received adequate treatment for their serious psychological conditions.''
Mr. Campbell, 37, cannot read, and Ms. Campbell, who is in her mid-20s, left school before finishing the 10th grade, according to court records.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); FAMILY COURTS (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); APPEALS (78%); JUDGES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



109 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Sale of Crumbling Buildings May Not Mean Rescue

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
''Bronx portfolio,'' the Web posting read. ''These distressed properties fetches prices that are much below its market value.''
The grammatically sloppy advertisement for 10 troubled buildings in the Bronx appeared this spring on eBay classifieds, not a forum known for attracting the kinds of investors who can afford to rescue the properties, which are plagued with crumbling ceilings, roaches and unsustainable debt piled on during the speculative boom of the previous decade.
But with scores of such buildings in foreclosure and many others in disrepair, city officials and housing advocates say a new wave of investors has already begun to swoop in. And the actions of some of the new buyers -- one was recently jailed for contempt of court, another has already clashed with tenants -- have raised fears that conditions in timeworn buildings could get even worse.
Rafael E. Cestero, the commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said he had seen a number of distressed properties around the city sold to buyers who were not acting ''in the best interests of the city, the neighborhood or tenants.'' 
Mr. Cestero said that city officials, seeking ways to intervene, had little recourse, since most of the deals were private. ''This is probably the most difficult thing we're doing at H.P.D. right now,'' he said. ''We don't have a clear and obvious way to insert ourselves.''
While the buyers are often paying less than the previous owners did, tenant advocates maintain that some of the prices are still too high for the amount of rental income the buildings generate and the repairs they need.
So the new owners, the advocates say, have already revived old tactics of tenant harassment, including bringing trumped-up lawsuits against tenants in rent-regulated apartments, hoping to evict them and then raise the rents under the state's so-called vacancy decontrol rules.
One landlord, Meyer Orbach, paid $70 million in June 2008 for 13 buildings with 250 apartments on West 49th Street; about half of the apartments were rent regulated. Last year, he bought 22 buildings with 384 apartments on West 109th Street.
The latter portfolio cost $45 million, or about 60 percent of what was owed by the previous owners, the Pinnacle and the Praedium Group, which had begun eviction proceedings against 5,000 of the 21,000 tenants it had in New York City. Mr. Orbach's strategy, many tenants say, is no different. He has filed dozens of cases against tenants in housing court, and some tenants complain that private investigators posing as repairmen have been poking around their apartments.
Rosa Hernandez, 71, said she and her husband have lived in their two-bedroom fifth-floor apartment at 204 West 109th Street for 32 years. They raised four children in the apartment, where they pay $563 a month in rent. Mr. Orbach's lawyers say in court papers that she now lives in her native country, Ecuador, and in Florida, where some of her children now live; she denies the claim.
Bennett Baumer, a tenant organizer at Housing Conservation Coordinators who is working with tenants on 49th Street, said of Mr. Orbach, ''He's part of a second wave of predatory investors using vacancy decontrol to evict tenants and jack up rents at the expense of affordable housing.''
Mr. Orbach's lawyer, Ken Fisher, rejected that notion, calling Mr. Orbach a ''small potatoes'' investor, not a Wall Street speculator. He said Mr. Orbach was merely trying to get rid of tenants who had no right to rent-regulated apartments, because they were illegally subletting or had a primary residence elsewhere.
''It is an unfortunate fact,'' Mr. Fisher said, ''that tenants in New York sometimes resort to illegal tactics in order to hold on to rent-regulated apartments.''
One tenant currently in court with Mr. Orbach is Felipe Fernandez, who said he has lived in his family's four-bedroom apartment on West 109th Street since 1974. His parents have since left the neighborhood but he remains, the sole occupant, with an $800-a-month rent. Given the apartment's four bedrooms, it is easy to see why a landlord would want to remove him. But, Mr. Fernandez said, that does not give Mr. Orbach the right to toss him out of his home.
''I grew up around here,'' said Mr. Fernandez, 50. ''I know the neighborhood and everybody knows me. My daughter went to the school down the street.''
Mr. Orbach's lawyer said his firm's investigation had indicated that Mr. Fernandez lived somewhere else most of the time; Mr. Fernandez denied that.
City officials said they were keeping an eye on Mr. Orbach's buildings.
Although he initially rebuffed their efforts, the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, credited Mr. Orbach for evicting an illegal hotel that had been operating in one of his buildings. But, she said, ''I still have concerns about whether there is or was harassment going on.''
The downturn in the housing market foiled many plans to gentrify buildings in far-flung neighborhoods. Many new landlords were stuck paying mortgages that the buildings' rent rolls could not support, and some walked away from the buildings, while tenants languished in apartments badly in need of maintenance.
''The real culprits,'' said Dina Levy of the Urban Homesteading Assistance Board, a tenant advocacy group, ''are the banks who, eyes wide open, overleveraged these buildings when they should have known better.''
But there is still interest among investors for rent-regulated buildings, said Robert A. Knakal, a principal at Massey Knakal, the real estate broker that sold Mr. Orbach the 109th Street buildings. ''The artificially low rents lead to a lot of upside,'' he said. ''If they're paying below-market rents, it's a positive thing if the tenant leaves.''
Many tenants in rent-regulated apartments, he said, are ''abusing the system.'' Legitimate tenants, he said, have nothing to worry about because they cannot be legally displaced.
Tenant advocates have had some success. Last year, the city helped broker a deal that allowed the former baseball star Mo Vaughn and his real estate company, the Omni Group, which has had success turning around neglected properties, to take over and begin to fix 14 of the city's most troubled buildings that had been owned by the Ocelot Capital Group.
But rather than serve as a model, the Omni deal has started to look like an exception. City officials have so far not had success replicating the arrangement.
One real estate manager, Sam Suzuki, represented a group that bought six other Ocelot buildings in May 2009, raising hopes that conditions would improve. They did not. The number of violations grew under Mr. Suzuki's watch, and the tenant group of a building at 1585 East 172nd Street filed suit against him.
Mr. Suzuki failed to correct violations, show up in court or reveal the names of the owners of the properties, and this summer he served three weeks in jail for civil contempt, a rare penalty in housing court.
Mr. Suzuki, in an interview on Thursday, blamed the buildings' problems on tenants who failed to pay the rent. ''There has to be a balance with the landlord and the tenant,'' he said. ''The tenants have to pay the rent.''
A real estate investment company, the Bluestone Group, bought the debt on Mr. Suzuki's buildings from Dime Savings Bank, making it, in effect, the third time the troubled housing stock changed hands.
Eli Tabak, a principal in the company, said the deal was in line with Bluestone's business model, which he said involved ''buying distressed debt at a discount, turning the asset around and turning it into a cash-flowing proposition.''
Ten buildings owned by Milbank Real Estate, a Los Angeles company, went into foreclosure last year -- and showed up on the eBay classifieds with the name of a Yonkers real estate company on March 30.
Housing advocates said these listings on eBay, where sellers may list items but do not put them up for auction, represented a new low, signaling levels of desperation that spelled only more pain for the tenants. The buildings that were owned by Milbank have 547 apartments and more than 3,200 housing code violations.
Milbank did not return calls for comment. A new buyer is currently negotiating to take over the portfolio, said Jen Brown, a spokeswoman for LNR Property, the special servicer handling the troubled loan. LNR has declined to disclose the name of the buyer, drawing concerns from Ms. Quinn, whose office has reviewed the portfolio's finances and fears the new owners are ill-prepared to repair and maintain the buildings.
Ms. Quinn took part in a rally on Tuesday in front of one of the Bronx buildings calling for more transparency and accountability.
''We believe that this sale is just going to rearrange the deck chairs on the Titanic,'' Ms. Quinn said in an interview. ''I'm very concerned that this is deja vu all over again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Water damage is evident in the ceiling of Xenon Titla's apartment at 1585 East 172nd Street in the Bronx. Tenants sued the group that bought the building.
Tenants at the timeworn building at 1585 East 172nd Street have had a rotating cast of landlords, but no improvements, in recent months. (A16)
 Leaks from the roof of 1585 East 172nd Street have left the bathroom in Xenon Titla's apartment there moldy and stained. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); EVICTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CITIES (75%); FORECLOSURE (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); LITIGATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



110 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: In Retail, Sluggish July Sales and Missed Expectations

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
The second half of the year is off to a slow start for retailers, who reported Thursday that sales at stores open at least a year were weaker than expected in July, increasing 2.9 percent from July of last year, according to a tally by Thomson Reuters.
Discount stores and department stores posted some of the best results, with discounters' sales increasing 3.9 percent, and those for department stores up 3.6 percent. But almost two-thirds of all stores reporting sales data missed analysts' estimates, with retailers catering to teenagers faring particularly badly, increasing 1.5 percent. 
Even with the uptick, the disappointment is based in part on the fact that the July comparison is being made against a lackluster month a year ago. In July 2009, revenue at stores open at least a year -- a crucial indicator called same-store sales -- was down 5.1 percent over all, making this year's increase especially unimpressive, analysts said.
''July of last year was particularly weak, so most companies -- especially teenage retailers -- were up against very weak comps,'' said John Long, a retail strategist at Kurt Salmon Associates. ''That should've made this July's comps a layup.''
Other measures of consumer activity in July have shown mixed results, just as efforts by economists to assess the strength of the economic rebound have been mixed. Economists were encouraged by sales of automobiles in the United States, which rose 5 percent over July 2009. But an index of consumer confidence slipped to 50.4 points in July, from a revised 54.3 in June, according to the Conference Board.
Given that it accounts for about 70 percent of the United States economy, consumer spending is considered critical to a recovery.
Many Americans have become reluctant to spend because of a rocky job market and indications of a slowdown in the second half of the year. In the face of that uncertainty, consumers have been paying down debt or saving more. In June, Americans saved 6.4 percent of their after-tax income, about triple the rate before the recession.
Economists have been warning that the second half of the year may grow more slowly than expected, and the July same-store sales numbers reflected the slowing pace of recovery. In July, same-store sales volume in every category, from luxury to discount, was below the average of same-store sales so far this year, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, which tracks about 30 mass retailers.
July is usually a mild sales month that is heavy on promotions as retailers try to clear out spring and summer clothes to make room for back-to-school stock at the end of the month. But it is also an early sign of how the back-to-school season might fare.
''How well discounters and department stores fared versus the teen retailers is striking,'' Mr. Long said. With the back-to-school season beginning, ''it is concerning that the start we're seeing has not been positive'' for the teenage stores, he said. ''But it's still theirs to lose. There is time to do in-store promotions.''
Over all, stores catering to teenagers reported an increase of 1.5 percent; analysts expected a 2.3 percent gain. Last year's July same-store sales for such retailers were down 12.1 percent. Retailers like Buckle (same-store sales down 9.3 percent), Hot Topic (down 9 percent) and Wet Seal (down 4.3 percent) were hit particularly hard.
Another teenage retailer, Aeropostale, where sales increased 1 percent, missed analysts' estimates of a 7.1 percent increase by a big margin. The company cited ''a change in consumer shopping behaviors'' in a recorded message from a spokesman, Kenneth Ohashi.
Aeropostale's results were ''a huge disappointment'' and ''the only real big surprise,'' Robert Samuels, an analyst at Phoenix Equities, wrote in a client note.
Retailers said that deal-hunting consumers were part of the reason for the weak sales.
At Ross Stores, where same-store sales increased 2 percent, ''We believe that increased promotions at other retailers may have negatively impacted our business early in the month,'' the vice chairman and chief executive, Michael Balmuth, said in a statement.
J. C. Penney, where sales dropped 0.6 percent, said in a statement that it had sold clearance inventory at a faster rate and at lower prices than in July 2009, when its same-store sales decreased 12.3 percent.
And Nordstrom cited its anniversary sale as part of the reason for its strong performance, with same-store sales increasing 7.6 percent. (Nordstrom missed analyst expectations by 0.5 percent, however.)
Discount stores had the best results among the categories followed by Thomson Reuters. The discount warehouse Costco Wholesalereported a 6 percent gain, while BJ's Wholesale Clubrose 2.8 percent and Targetrose 2 percent.
The best performer for the month among retailers tracked by Thomson Reuters was Limited Stores, where sales were up 12 percent, well over the estimate of 5.2 percent and a big turnaround from a decline of 7 percent in July 2009. Limited attributed the increase in part to more sales of full-priced merchandise at its Victoria's Secret division.
Several retailers also said that Western and Southern states were strong contributors to sales. Nordstrom said sales were strong in the Midwest, South and Northwest. Gap said that Southern sales were strong, with the weakest sales in the Northeast. Aeropostale said that the West and South were its best regions for the month, and Ross Stores said Florida and the Northwest were outpacing other areas. Costco said the Midwest, Texas, the Southeast and the Northwest were its best performers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Though Aeropostale's sales increased 1 percent, the chain missed analysts' estimates of a 7.1 percent increase by a wide margin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Century 21 in New York. Discounters' sales rose 3.9 percent, and department stores 3.6 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) CHARTS: Retail Sales in July: THOMSON REUTERS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended July 31, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier. (Sources: company reports
 Thomson Reuters) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); SAME STORE SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

COMPANY: KURT SALMON ASSOCIATES INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



111 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Hit Highest Level Since April

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Initial requests for jobless benefits rose last week to the highest level since April, a sign that hiring remained weak and that some companies were still cutting workers. 
The Labor Department said Thursday that new claims for unemployment insurance rose by 19,000, to a seasonally adjusted 479,000. Analysts had expected a small drop. Claims have risen twice in the last three weeks.
Some of the increase stemmed from difficulties the government had in adjusting for seasonal factors. The Labor Department expected a large decline in claims last week, as many auto companies usually shut their plants temporarily in early July. Claims were expected to rise during the shutdown and then fall.
But this year General Motors and other manufacturers skipped the shutdowns, and claims did not fall last week as much as expected.
Before seasonal adjustment, claims last week fell by about 14,250, to 399,570.
The seasonally adjusted four-week average of claims, which smoothes out volatility, rose by 5,250, to 458,500.
Economists closely watch initial claims because they are considered a gauge of the pace of layoffs and an indication of employers' willingness to hire.
Applications for unemployment insurance have fluctuated between 450,000 and 480,000 all year, after declining steadily last year from a peak of 651,000 in March 2009. In a healthy economy with rapid hiring, claims usually fall below 400,000.
The tally of laid-off workers continuing to claim unemployment benefits fell by 34,000, to 4.54 million. That does not include an additional 3.9 million people receiving extended unemployment benefits paid by the federal government.
During the recession, Congress added up to 73 weeks of additional benefits on top of the 26 weeks typically provided by states. Those benefits were interrupted in June when Republicans blocked an extension. But Congress has since reinstated the program through November.
The economy began growing last year, and that growth accelerated in the winter and spring. It spurred some modest hiring, but not enough to rapidly reduce the unemployment rate, which is 9.5 percent.
Economists worry the recovery is slowing. Americans are spending cautiously as they save more and pay down debt. Home sales and construction slumped after a popular homebuyers' tax credit expired April 30. The impact of the federal government's stimulus efforts is fading.
More jobs are needed to give consumers more spending power to help support a sustainable recovery.
But it is not clear if the new jobs will come fast enough. On Friday, the Labor Department will issue the July jobs report, and economists expect it will show that the nation lost a net total of 65,000 jobs. That includes the end of about 150,000 temporary Census Bureau jobs.
Excluding government employment, private companies are expected to have added a net total of 90,000 jobs.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); REAL ESTATE (67%); TAX LAW (63%); CENSUS (62%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



112 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: The Flimflam Man

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
One depressing aspect of American politics is the susceptibility of the political and media establishment to charlatans. You might have thought, given past experience, that D.C. insiders would be on their guard against conservatives with grandiose plans. But no: as long as someone on the right claims to have bold new proposals, he's hailed as an innovative thinker. And nobody checks his arithmetic.
Which brings me to the innovative thinker du jour: Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. 
Mr. Ryan has become the Republican Party's poster child for new ideas thanks to his ''Roadmap for America's Future,'' a plan for a major overhaul of federal spending and taxes. News media coverage has been overwhelmingly favorable; on Monday, The Washington Post put a glowing profile of Mr. Ryan on its front page, portraying him as the G.O.P.'s fiscal conscience. He's often described with phrases like ''intellectually audacious.''
But it's the audacity of dopes. Mr. Ryan isn't offering fresh food for thought; he's serving up leftovers from the 1990s, drenched in flimflam sauce.
Mr. Ryan's plan calls for steep cuts in both spending and taxes. He'd have you believe that the combined effect would be much lower budget deficits, and, according to that Washington Post report, he speaks about deficits ''in apocalyptic terms.'' And The Post also tells us that his plan would, indeed, sharply reduce the flow of red ink: ''The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that Rep. Paul Ryan's plan would cut the budget deficit in half by 2020.''
But the budget office has done no such thing. At Mr. Ryan's request, it produced an estimate of the budget effects of his proposed spending cuts -- period. It didn't address the revenue losses from his tax cuts.
The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center has, however, stepped into the breach. Its numbers indicate that the Ryan plan would reduce revenue by almost $4 trillion over the next decade. If you add these revenue losses to the numbers The Post cites, you get a much larger deficit in 2020, roughly $1.3 trillion.
And that's about the same as the budget office's estimate of the 2020 deficit under the Obama administration's plans. That is, Mr. Ryan may speak about the deficit in apocalyptic terms, but even if you believe that his proposed spending cuts are feasible -- which you shouldn't -- the Roadmap wouldn't reduce the deficit. All it would do is cut benefits for the middle class while slashing taxes on the rich.
And I do mean slash. The Tax Policy Center finds that the Ryan plan would cut taxes on the richest 1 percent of the population in half, giving them 117 percent of the plan's total tax cuts. That's not a misprint. Even as it slashed taxes at the top, the plan would raise taxes for 95 percent of the population.
Finally, let's talk about those spending cuts. In its first decade, most of the alleged savings in the Ryan plan come from assuming zero dollar growth in domestic discretionary spending, which includes everything from energy policy to education to the court system. This would amount to a 25 percent cut once you adjust for inflation and population growth. How would such a severe cut be achieved? What specific programs would be slashed? Mr. Ryan doesn't say.
After 2020, the main alleged saving would come from sharp cuts in Medicare, achieved by dismantling Medicare as we know it, and instead giving seniors vouchers and telling them to buy their own insurance. Does this sound familiar? It should. It's the same plan Newt Gingrich tried to sell in 1995.
And we already know, from experience with the Medicare Advantage program, that a voucher system would have higher, not lower, costs than our current system. The only way the Ryan plan could save money would be by making those vouchers too small to pay for adequate coverage. Wealthy older Americans would be able to supplement their vouchers, and get the care they need; everyone else would be out in the cold.
In practice, that probably wouldn't happen: older Americans would be outraged -- and they vote. But this means that the supposed budget savings from the Ryan plan are a sham.
So why have so many in Washington, especially in the news media, been taken in by this flimflam? It's not just inability to do the math, although that's part of it. There's also the unwillingness of self-styled centrists to face up to the realities of the modern Republican Party; they want to pretend, in the teeth of overwhelming evidence, that there are still people in the G.O.P. making sense. And last but not least, there's deference to power -- the G.O.P. is a resurgent political force, so one mustn't point out that its intellectual heroes have no clothes.
But they don't. The Ryan plan is a fraud that makes no useful contribution to the debate over America's fiscal future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



113 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Optimist vs. Pessimist

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
When the latest unemployment figures are announced on Friday, all of Wall Street will be watching. But for Richard Berner of Morgan Stanley and Jan Hatzius of Goldman Sachs, the results will be more than just another marker in an avalanche of data.
Instead, the numbers will be a clue as to which of the two economists is right about where the American economy is headed. Their sharp disagreement over that question adds yet another twist to the fierce rivalry between the firms, Wall Street's version of the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox.
Mr. Hatzius is arguably Wall Street's most prominent pessimist. He warns that the American economy is poised for a sharp slowdown in the second half of the year. That would send unemployment higher again and raise the risk of deflation. A rare occurrence, deflation can have a devastating effect on a struggling economy as prices and wages fall. He says he may be compelled to downgrade his already anemic growth predictions for the economy. 
For months, Mr. Berner has been sticking to a more optimistic forecast, despite growing evidence in favor of Mr. Hatzius's view. Last week, Mr. Berner was caught by surprise when the federal government reported that the economy grew at a 2..4 percent pace in the second quarter, well below the 3.8 percent he had forecast a month before. Mr. Hatzius came closer to hitting the mark, having projected a 2 percent growth rate.
Mr. Berner and his deputy, David Greenlaw, still expect a pickup in the second half of the year, which would help gradually bring down unemployment. They play down the danger posed by deflation, the malady that deepened the Great Depression and contributed to Japan's lost decade of the 1990s.
''I'd say at this point the data and the sentiment in the marketplace have certainly gone more Jan's way than mine,'' Mr. Berner said. Some people, he added, ''think I'm out of my mind. But I have a conviction in my beliefs that's based on my analysis.''
Mr. Hatzius, a 41-year-old native of Germany who was 3 when Mr. Berner started out as an economist, is more restrained. He can afford to be, having snagged the top spot in a recent ranking of Wall Street economists as well as an award from Arizona State University honoring his ''uncanny economic forecasting that anticipated the global financial crisis.''
On Wall Street, both men were among a very small group that accurately predicted the recent recession. Mr. Berner's long resume includes stints at the Federal Reserve in Washington and Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. ''I've seen plenty of ups and downs,'' said Mr. Berner, 64, sitting in a corner office overlooking the Manhattan skyline at Morgan Stanley's Midtown headquarters.
Showing not even a hint of doubt, Mr. Hatzius said, ''The prospect of substantial inflation seems very remote, but the prospect for deflation is far from remote. A double dip is certainly possible but not likely.''
Mr. Berner does not expect substantial inflation, but he is predicting inflation will run 1 to 2 percent annually rather than the near-zero level Mr. Hatzius sees by the end of next year.
''There is still a one in 10 chance of deflation,'' Mr. Berner calculates. ''But we already have been much more aggressive and proactive in dealing with the problem than Japan was,'' he said, referring to the Federal Reserve's decision to quickly cut rates and aggressively buy government securities.
The split between the chief economists, whose work helps inform trading strategies recommended to investors by their firms, echoes a broader and sometimes fiercer debate among academic economists and commentators about the threat posed by deflation and what the government's response should be.
According to the deflationistas, as they are nicknamed, a new round of stimulus spending by Washington is urgently required to stave off a Depression-like cycle of falling prices and wages that is difficult to reverse once it is set in motion.
Inflationistas, by contrast, worry more about the effect that additional government borrowing could have on the recovery. With the budget deficit expected to hover around $1 trillion a year for the next decade, they say, interest rates could eventually surge, making borrowing -- and goods -- more expensive. A double dip, they say, is highly unlikely.
Mr. Hatzius's gloomy outlook is owed centrally to Americans' slowdown in spending. Recent data suggest that consumers are using any extra cash they have to pay down debt or put into savings. That places a strain on an American economy that has become hugely dependent on consumer spending.
On Tuesday, the Commerce Department reported that Americans saved 6.4 percent of their after-tax income in June, in contrast to the years before the recession, when savings rates stood at 1 to 2 percent.
Last month, the Federal Reserve reported that consumer debt dropped by 4.5 percent in May, a $9 billion decline. It was the 20th consecutive month that figure has dropped. In 2007, consumer debt jumped by 5.7 percent, or nearly $40 billion.
''We had a housing and credit boom that was unsustainable, and now this boom has turned into a bust,'' Mr. Hatzius said. ''There was too much debt, and the deleveraging process has still got a ways to go. It's going to keep private demand weak.''
Another big factor is the amount of slack in the economy. According to a recent report by Nomura, ''The U.S. economy continues to operate with a staggering amount of spare capacity -- unemployed workers, idle trucks and factories, etc.''
Mr. Hatzius agrees, adding that all this extra capacity will restrict the ability of companies to raise prices, thus raising the risk of deflation. ''It's plain to see there's a ton of slack in the economy,'' he said. ''We're not managing to generate enough demand to absorb all these productive resources in the economy.''
Mr. Berner is also studying the role that slack and deleveraging are playing, but he draws very different conclusions from Mr. Hatzius. Excess capacity is being reduced more quickly than Mr. Hatzius believes, Mr. Berner said. That will help businesses raise prices and improve profits, thus heading off the threat of deflation.
What is more, Mr. Berner argues that the deleveraging process is much further along than Mr. Hatzius contends, which will encourage consumers to start spending again. He expects economic growth in the second half of 2010 to run at more than 3 percent, roughly twice the 1.5 percent rate Mr. Hatzius projects.
If Mr. Hatzius is right, unemployment will still stand at 9.7 percent at the end of next year, slightly higher than it is now. Mr. Berner says he believes unemployment should sink to 8.7 percent by then. As for Friday's numbers, Mr. Berner is calling for a private sector gain of 145,000 jobs versus Mr. Hatzius's prediction of 75,000 new jobs.
Either way, both predict unemployment will remain at uncomfortably high levels for several years.
One answer, Mr. Hatzius says, is another round of stimulus spending by Washington to fend off the deflation risk he worries about.
Mr. Berner was skeptical of the stimulus bill passed in 2009, and he still ''doubts that traditional fiscal stimulus is the right tool for the job.''
Instead, he and his colleague Mr. Greenlaw argue for new mortgage rules that would reduce foreclosures and steady the housing market, payroll tax credits to encourage hiring and a new job training corps for unemployed workers.
''Friday's number is just one tile in a mosaic,'' Mr. Berner said. ''From time to time, it'll be like I'm winning, from time to time Jan will be winning.''
''The truth is that it's just a crummy moderate recovery,'' Mr. Berner added, hedging his bets. ''We'll both testify to that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jan Hatzius of Goldman Sachs, left, has a more pessimistic outlook on the economy than Richard Berner of Morgan Stanley. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 CHART: Contrasting Forecasts: Analysts at two firms have made greatly different economic forecasts for the third quarter. (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); DEFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



114 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Learning In Summer, Gladly

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There Theodore C. Sorensen was the other day, passing the torch to a new generation of Americans.
For 25 teenagers listening to him, Mr. Sorensen's time as President John F. Kennedy's adviser and speechwriter might as well have been ancient history. It was almost 50 years ago. Nowadays, that qualifies as ancient.
But they sat attentively as Mr. Sorensen, 82, talked about the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, when fears ran high that the United States and the Soviet Union were about to blow the world to smithereens. What he tried to convey was ''the importance of words.'' Without them, there is no diplomacy. Without diplomacy, wars are not averted. 
''Words can be more powerful than weapons,'' Mr. Sorensen said, because they ''solve things.'' That was the case in 1962. ''The United States never fired a shot,'' he said. ''But the crisis ended -- because of words.''
Follow-up questions suggested that perhaps this piece of history wasn't so ancient after all, certainly not for those who raised their hands. They had their facts straight, which was not a huge surprise, given the nature of this group.
During a summer recess when most high school students would rather do little more than just hang out, these 13 young women and 12 young men spent the last three weeks at the Council on Foreign Relations listening to lectures and taking part in workshops on issues like global warming, China's economic juggernaut, Darfur, child prostitution, international law and world trade. Playful things like that.
Under the aegis of a nonprofit organization called Global Kids, they traveled weekdays from different corners of the city to East 68th Street in the rarefied neighborhood that is home to the council.
Global Kids has been around for 21 years, seeking to interest students and teachers in the world around them. That is not always easy in a country where ''international'' is of interest to some people only if it refers to a pancake house. But Carole Artigiani, the organization's founder and executive director, became convinced not only that youngsters need to learn about the world but also that many of them want to learn.
The program at the Council on Foreign Relations was designed for highly engaged students, who seem to have absorbed a fundamental lesson in life: Ignorance is a terrible strategy for success and a miserable excuse for failure.
''As a teen, you're usually not taken seriously,'' said Gabriel Wahab, who is about to be a senior at the School for International Studies in Brooklyn. ''The thing here is that we're seen not just as kids but as people with valid thoughts.'' Fahad Huq, entering his senior year at William Cullen Bryant High School in Queens, said the program was a good fit for him. ''I talk a lot,'' he acknowledged. Not only does the program let him do that, he said, but also ''you get to listen a lot.''
Daney Forbes, also about to be a senior, at the High School for Public Service in Brooklyn, said some aspects of these sessions were depressing but at the same time eye-opening. World hunger was an example. ''For people to be hungry when there's so much food, I don't understand it,'' she said. Who does?
For Richard N. Haass, the council's president and a guest speaker in the program, a key point was to go beyond a recitation of facts to give the teenagers ''an appreciation for the complexity'' of foreign policy, an understanding that ''it's interesting, it's hard, it's important.''
WHAT the students also heard was that their generation had not been dealt the greatest of hands.
There were warnings that it is they who will be stuck with the enormous national debt being rung up by their elders. Theodore Roosevelt IV, an investment banker and a great-grandson of the 26th president, sounded a gloomy ecological note. ''My generation has failed your generation,'' he said. ''We've turned over the world more environmentally impaired than we inherited it.''
On that theme, Mr. Sorensen observed a workshop on climate change, which included a discussion about the threat that rising sea levels may present to the very survival of some island nations. Later, he mentioned that ''something has to be done on the most polluted small island in the world.''
''Do you know which one that is?'' Mr. Sorensen asked the group. No one seemed sure.
''Manhattan,'' he said. There was an implicit suggestion that they all ask what they can do for their city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HISTORY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



115 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Turning a Crisis Into an Opportunity

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- At a political fund-raiser on Thursday for a close friend running for his old Senate seat, President Obama brought up the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico to make his case to voters.
When the other side was in power, he said, they told the oil industry to ''write your own rules.'' More recently, he said, they ''voted against holding oil companies like BP accountable for every dime of the spills they cause.'' One leading Republican, he recalled, even ''apologized to them.''
Now that the country's worst oil spill in history has finally been stopped, expect a gusher of political debate over what it meant and whom to blame. For three months, Mr. Obama was tested in a way he had not been before, his seemingly detached initial response to the crisis evolving into a tougher approach to face down a multinational corporation. 
He will spend the next three months until midterm Congressional elections trying to deflect questions about his administration's effectiveness by turning them into questions about his critics' coziness with the oil industry. The end of the spill, and the government's conclusion that it did less damage than feared, certainly provides a welcome burst of good news for a president beleaguered by an anemic economy at home and relentless war abroad. But the question is whether he can define the episode on his terms.
Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, argued that Americans would appreciate what he called Mr. Obama's steady hand and tough decision-making through the ordeal that led to a $20 billion fund paid by BP to compensate victims. ''He's steady under fire,'' he said, ''and given all the crises, you want somebody who's clear-eyed and determined to get their objective.'' Republicans said the episode showed that Mr. Obama's instincts were not as sharp at crisis management as at campaigning. ''His leadership was a little uncertain,'' said Frank J. Donatelli, a White House official under President Ronald Reagan and now chairman of Gopac, a Republican group. ''It's as if a lawyer approached the problem rather than a manager.''
The spill managed to dominate much of the late spring and summer and at times forced Mr. Obama out of his comfort zone. He found himself challenged to exhibit more of the frustration Americans felt, and after nearly two months he finally used his first Oval Office address to confront the public uncertainty. After his wife, Michelle, urged Americans to vacation in the gulf region, he had to schedule a short family trip there himself before heading up to his favored Martha's Vineyard.
Along the way, he failed to translate the public anger over the spill into energy legislation, as he vowed to do. Even after he and Senate Democrats dropped any proposed limits on carbon pollution from the legislation, the remaining slimmed-down energy bill still failed to garner enough support to be put to a vote.
But as his aides scrambled to show that the administration was on top of the spill with daily briefings and statements updating the latest efforts to stop the flow or clean up the gulf, Mr. Obama resolved not to let it detract entirely from the rest of his agenda, as President Jimmy Carter arguably did during the Iranian hostage crisis or President George W. Bush did during the latter years of the Iraq war.
Indeed, on Thursday, Mr. Obama's second nominee to the Supreme Court, Elena Kagan, was confirmed by the Senate, and he scored some late-session victories in pushing through a war-spending measure, an extension of unemployment benefits, money to head off teacher layoffs and a child nutrition bill.
''He's closing out the legislative year with a series of successes, unexpected ones,'' Mr. Emanuel said. After recent setbacks, he said, the president was making progress on other fronts, including in pressing the case against Iran's nuclear program. After an extended down period, White House aides feel they are now in an up period.
Mr. Obama, at least, seems up when he is on the stump. In speech after speech in recent weeks, he has sounded more like his campaign self, energetically ripping into the opposition and trumpeting what he sees as his achievements.
With his poll numbers uncomfortably low heading into the midterm Congressional campaign, he is arguing that his policies have begun paying off, as he did when he talked about his auto industry bailout on Thursday.
Republicans counter that he is celebrating unpopular policies, as demonstrated this week in a referendum in Missouri where voters rejected a central element of his new health care program. ''So as President Obama prepares to take another victory lap, who exactly is President Obama celebrating with?'' asked a statement issued by the office of Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House Republican whip.
What lessons Mr. Obama drew from the oil spill, he has not discussed much in public. No doubt had he to do it over again, he would have thought twice about announcing an expansion of offshore drilling just before the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded off the coast. And he has said he wished he had moved more aggressively to clean up the regulatory agency monitoring oil exploration.
But Mr. Obama is not someone to be rushed into moving before he is ready. Asked once why he took a couple of days to express anger at large bonuses by a bailed-out Wall Street firm, he said, ''Because I like to know what I'm talking about before I speak.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



116 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Revenue at Viacom Remains the Same, but Cost-Cutting Helps Lift Profit

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Viacom, which is controlled by Sumner M. Redstone, reported roughly the same amount of revenue for the quarter ending in June -- $3.3 billion -- as it did in the quarter a year earlier, yet its profit rose almost 52 percent, to $420 million, from $277 million last year, largely because of cost cutting.
The company realized revenue growth at its cable channels from hit shows like ''iCarly'' on Nickelodeon and ''16 and Pregnant'' on MTV, but sluggish performance by the film unit diminished the company's overall results. 
The added profit was attributed to an increase in affiliate fees and advertising revenues for its cable channels as well as lower costs for the film unit.
The performance of Viacom's cable channels impressed analysts, despite the fact that the company's 4 percent growth in ad revenues lagged behind that of other cable channel owners for the quarter. Richard Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG, said the weakness in upfront advertising sales last year was still penalizing Viacom to a greater degree than its competitors.
''They are in the early stages of a ratings recovery and are just beginning to benefit from the positive impact on advertising,'' he said.
Over all, the cable unit posted a 6 percent gain in revenue, to $2.1 billion. Looking forward, Viacom emphasized that the upfront market this year was much stronger. Still, Philippe P. Dauman, the chief executive of Viacom, added a caveat while speaking to analysts Thursday.
''While the economic recovery appears to be progressing in fits and starts -- a condition that leaves us cautious -- we are encouraged by the growing momentum we see in the domestic advertising market,'' he said.
Viacom also reported ratings momentum for some of its top channels, including MTV, which has struggled to find its footing in recent years. The company's noisiest show at the moment is ''Jersey Shore,'' the MTV reality show about a boozy band of twenty-somethings that just entered its second season.
Some groups encouraged an advertiser boycott of the show's first season, but apparently complaints about ethnic stereotyping and New Jersey's reputation are no match for the ratings, which surpassed five million viewers last week.
''Now we have advertisers scrambling to get on it,'' Mr. Dauman said. ''We have some advertisers who want to get wall to wall on particular episodes; we are turning them away.''
Mr. Dauman made sure to mention MTV's other big hit, ''Teen Mom,'' which he told analysts ''is actually a very sweet show.''
He also highlighted the performance of Nickelodeon, the premier children's cable channel, which is seeing robust viewership of both old shows (''SpongeBob SquarePants'') and new (''Team Umizoomi''). The ''iCarly'' movie that was first shown in June was TV's highest-rated telecast of the second quarter among children.
Though it swung to a profit, Viacom's film unit, Paramount, had a revenue decline of almost 10 percent, in part because it continued to be dragged down by weaker DVD sales. The home entertainment sales category showed a 43 percent drop for the quarter.
In June, for the first time in its history, Viacom instituted a quarterly dividend program and said it would resume a stock repurchase program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BOYCOTTS (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (91%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%)

PERSON: PHILIPPE P DAUMAN (79%); SUMNER REDSTONE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



117 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: RUSSIA, CRIPPLED BY DROUGHT, BANS EXPORTS OF GRAIN

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Andrew E. Kramer reported from Moscow, and Jack Healy from New York.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin on Thursday banned all exports of grain after millions of acres of Russian wheat withered in a severe drought, driving up prices around the world and pushing them to their highest level in two years in the United States.
The move was the latest of several abrupt interventions in the Russian economy by Mr. Putin, who called the ban necessary to curb rising food prices in the country. Russia is suffering from the worst heat wave since record-keeping began here more than 130 years ago. 
''We need to prevent a rise in domestic food prices, we need to preserve the number of cattle and build up reserves for next year,'' Mr. Putin said in a meeting broadcast on television. ''As the saying goes, reserves don't make your pocket heavy.''
During his years as president and prime minister, Mr. Putin has never hesitated to marshal the power of the state to protect Russian economic interests, and this decision showed that this has remained his prerogative even after he stepped down as president.
Mr. Putin has also proved adept at deflecting criticism of the government with grand gestures, and the export ban was widely seen as one of a series of populist moves by Mr. Putin to address rising resentment over the calamitous heat wave and the fires it has spawned.
Pressure was also brought to bear by multinational grain trading companies, which have been lobbying for the ban as a way to escape futures contracts drawn up before the drought, when prices were far lower. A Russian subsidiary of Glencore, the Swiss-based commodities trading company that has close ties to the Russian government, pressed hard as the scope of the drought's devastation became clear.
Wheat prices have soared by about 90 percent since June because of the drought in Russia and parts of the European Union, as well as floods in Canada, and the ban pushed prices even higher. Exports from Ukraine, another major exporter, are down sharply this year.
Russia, the largest grain-exporting nation before World War I, has largely recovered from failed Soviet agricultural policies, lifted by rising global food prices and economic reforms that encouraged private farmers and companies to once again till the country's expansive and fertile croplands. Before this year's drought, yields had risen steadily, and Russian grain exports totaled 21.4 million metric tons last year, about 17 percent of the global grain trade.
But on Thursday, rail cars heaped with fresh grain came to a halt around Russia, stopped in midjourney from the country's fields to the main exporting ports on the Black Sea. The order covered a variety of grains, including barley and corn, but will have its greatest impact on wheat exports.
Mr. Putin said that the government might extend the ban if the harvest yields even less than the current grim forecasts. The projected yield is about 70 million metric tons of grain, according to the Russian Grain Union, a lobbying group for farmers, about equal to domestic needs and down sharply from last year's total of 97 million metric tons.
The group was sharply critical of Mr. Putin's decision. ''First of all, you can congratulate American farmers, who are going to take the niche that Russian farmers are leaving'' in global markets because of the ban, said Anton V. Shaparin, a spokesman for the group. He added that Russia's reserves could cover the shortages from this year.
Owing to last year's bumper crop, Russia currently holds about 24 million metric tons in grain elevators, the group said.
In Egypt, the world's largest wheat importer and a major customer of Russia, officials said only that they hoped current contracts would be honored.
The abrupt ban -- just this week, a deputy agricultural minister had said no such measure would be taken -- recalled other decisive actions by Mr. Putin. Last summer, he canceled Russia's bid to join the World Trade Organization, saying the country would apply only as a customs union with Belarus and Kazakhstan. Mr. Putin twice ordered natural gas shutoffs to Europe amid disputes with Ukraine ostensibly over pricing.
The Russian agro-business sector, which has just been emerging here from the ashes of the failed Soviet collective farm system, was also left pondering its future.
Russia, blessed with the greatest reserve of fertile but fallow land in the world, is thought by many experts to have the greatest potential of any country to meet mounting demand for food from a growing global population.
Michel Orloff, the founder of Black Earth Farming, one of the new corporate farming operations that have raised yields by consolidating and reforming collective farms, said Mr. Putin's ban made sense from the perspective of curbing domestic food prices but would cost companies like his.
''We are on the verge of national need,'' Mr. Orloff said. ''Of course, the freer the market, the better. But his job is not only to take care of the farmers of this country, but the citizens of this country.''
Kingsmill Bond, chief analyst at Troika investment bank in Moscow, which has studied the revolution in Russian farming, said the ban would damage shares in corporate farming operations like Black Earth, Razgulay and Cherkizov.
Still, he said, ''grain is an emotive issue; you want to make sure you have sufficient supplies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A fire spread Thursday near Golovanovo, in western Russia. The country is enduring the worst heat wave in its modern history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATALIA KOLESNIKOVA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 A field of grain burned near Voronezh. A drought has destroyed one-fifth of the wheat crop in Russia, the third-largest exporter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKHAIL METZEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); WEATHER (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); MISC GRAIN FARMING (78%); FUTURES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (76%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



118 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Stronger, Social Security Worse in Short Run, Report Finds

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Medicare will remain financially solvent for 12 additional years, until 2029, because of the cost-cutting measures in President Obama's recently enacted health care legislation, the program's trustees projected on Thursday.
The financial outlook for Social Security is ''little changed from last year,'' the report said. In the short run, it added, the financial condition of the retirement program has worsened because of high unemployment, which has reduced payroll tax revenues. For the first time, money flowing out of the program this year exceeds money flowing in.
The trustees predicted that the Social Security trust fund would be exhausted in 2037, the same date as projected last year. The Social Security commissioner, Michael J. Astrue, said this was ''not a cause for panic,'' because continuing tax revenue would still be sufficient to pay more than 75 percent of benefits even after exhaustion of the trust fund. 
Both programs continue to face intense financial pressure in coming decades as the population ages and health care costs rise. Medicare, in particular, faces eventual insolvency if more is not done to balance its obligations to provide health care to older Americans with the tax revenues that pay for the program.
Because inflation remains low, the report said, Social Security beneficiaries will probably not receive a cost-of-living adjustment in 2011, just as they did not receive one this year.
The report comes at a time of growing political ferment over the future of the programs, which account for about one-third of all federal spending, and they provoked contradictory reactions.
Many advocates on the left seized on the updates to argue that no changes were needed, especially for Social Security, while some on the right said the report showed a need for cutbacks in future benefit promises or even for privatization.
Liberal groups have begun mobilizing this summer to oppose any cut in Social Security benefits or increase in the retirement age that might be recommended by a bipartisan fiscal commission. The panel, appointed by Mr. Obama, is to vote on its final report by Dec. 1.
Dozens of liberal organizations, including the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the N.A.A.C.P. and MoveOn.org, formed the Strengthen Social Security coalition last week. On Tuesday, representatives of those groups and others, including AARP, met with two administration officials and ''gave them an earful,'' in the words of one participant.
Nancy J. Altman, co-chairwoman of the coalition, said she feared that some people in Washington, including a few members of the president's fiscal commission, would use the trustees' report to ''advance their agenda of cuts to Social Security benefits.''
Many on the left are anxious because they believe that the administration, having won cost-saving changes in Medicare, is turning its sights to Social Security, in an effort to stabilize its long-term finances and reduce the nation's future debt load.
Bruce N. Reed, a former Clinton White House official who is executive director of the fiscal commission, said, ''Some on the left are concerned that Social Security would be used for deficit reduction purposes, and that's not anybody's goal.'' But Mr. Reed added, ''The trustees' report reaffirms the importance of taking action to strengthen Social Security's solvency over the long haul.''
The trustees said the new health care law would contribute to an improvement in the finances of Social Security as well as Medicare. Starting in 2019, the law imposes a new tax on high-cost health insurance plans. The tax is expected to cause a shift in employee compensation from health insurance to wages, which are subject to Social Security payroll taxes.
In the short run, however, the outlook for Social Security continued to deteriorate. ''Benefit payments are expected to exceed tax revenue for the first time this year, six years earlier than was projected last year,'' said Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.
In their annual report, the trustees predicted that, under existing law, Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund would be exhausted in 2029, rather than in 2017, as projected in last year's report.
This is ''a record increase from one report to the next,'' Mr. Geithner said.
The trustees, he said, assumed that the new health care law would produce ''very substantial improvements in the rate of growth in health care costs'' and fundamental changes in the way health care is delivered.
The new law squeezes nearly a half-trillion dollars from Medicare spending in the next 10 years. The savings are based on an assumption that hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers will become more efficient, increasing their productivity to match productivity gains in the overall economy.
If that does not happen, the trustees said, Medicare will pay many hospitals and doctors less than the cost of the goods and services they purchase, and providers may ''eventually become unwilling or unable to treat Medicare beneficiaries.''
The report also assumes that Medicare will cut payment rates for doctors' services by 23 percent on Dec. 1 and by a further 6.5 percent on Jan. 1, as required under existing law.
This assumption is unrealistic, the report said, because ''Congress is virtually certain to override'' the scheduled cuts, as it has done in recent years.
The report makes clear that Medicare still faces major financial problems. If, as expected, Congress overrides the cuts in doctors' fees, the cost of Part B of Medicare, which covers physician services, will grow about 8 percent a year in the coming decade, and Part D, which covers prescription drugs, will grow 9.4 percent a year -- much faster than the economy, the trustees said.
About one-fourth of the people on Medicare, new beneficiaries and those with relatively high incomes, ''will be subject to unusually large premium increases next year,'' the trustees said. But, they added, the other three-fourths of beneficiaries will not face a premium increase in 2011.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, and Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, at a briefing Thursday on a report by Social Security and Medicare trustees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) CHARTS: New Outlooks for Medicare and Social Security Medicare trustees now estimate that the program's hospital insurance trust fund will be depleted in 2029, 12 years later than last year's projection. The change is largely due to assumptions about spending under the new health care law. The short-term outlook for Social Security worsened, and its trust fund is projected to be emptied in 2037. (Source: Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
 Social Security Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (86%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



119 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: At Chicago Ford Plant, Obama Says Critics Lack Faith in Americans

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Against a backdrop of American-made cars, President Obama cast his Republican critics on Thursday as having lost faith in the American people, part of an emerging campaign strategy to try to turn the country's populist mood against his opponents. 
Visiting his third auto plant in the last week, Mr. Obama portrayed his efforts to save the industry as an act of patriotism, and the opposition to them as a fundamental expression of pessimism in the country. Even more than he did during a swing through Michigan last week, he suggested that his adversaries lacked confidence in the resilience of American workers and the American economy.
''I wish they were standing here today and saw what I see,'' he told an audience of cheering workers at a Ford Motor Company plant here in his hometown. ''I wish they could see the pride you take in building these great cars, American-made cars. And my message to them is: Don't bet against the American worker; don't lose faith in the American people; don't lose faith in American industry. We are coming back.''
The auto bailout began under the Bush administration. Republicans who opposed Mr. Obama's expansion of the bailout objected primarily on the grounds that it was too much government intrusion into the private sector. On Thursday, Republicans criticized Mr. Obama's visit to the car plant because, unlike General Motors or Chrysler, Ford turned itself around without taking a federal bailout. ''Desperate to Claim Economic Victory, Obama Visits Ford Plant to Tout Success He Had Nothing to Do With,'' read a Republican National Committee statement.
White House officials countered that Ford indirectly benefited from the bailout because the federal money kept suppliers in business. Moreover, officials noted that Ford used a $400 million loan from the Energy Department to retool the plant Mr. Obama visited on Thursday to build an energy-efficient line of Explorers, adding 1,200 workers.
And Mr. Obama arrived with more help for Ford -- a $250 million Export-Import Bank loan guarantee to finance the export of 200,000 vehicles to Canada and Mexico.
The White House plans to make the auto bailout a prime talking point as Congressional elections approach. Ford, Chrysler and G.M. are all profitable again, the industry added 55,000 jobs over the last year and its exports were up 57 percent in the first four months of this year. The president's speech was filled with appeals to American pride, with phrases like ''made in America'' and ''being No. 1 again.''
After visiting the car plant, Mr. Obama attended three Democratic fund-raisers, including one for Alexi Giannoulias, the state treasurer running for Mr. Obama's old Senate seat. ''We need fighters like Alexi in Washington,'' Mr. Obama said, ''because I don't know if you've noticed, but we've got a lot of work to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Thursday toured a Ford plant in Chicago that used an Energy Department loan to retool to build a line of energy-efficient Explorers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (65%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



120 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: A Top Adviser On Economics To Step Down

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Christina D. Romer is resigning as the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, the White House announced on Thursday night. She will be the second member this summer to leave an economic team that has steered the administration through the worst recession since the Depression. 
Ms. Romer, the only woman in the inner circle of Mr. Obama's economic advisers, early on had tense relations with Lawrence H. Summers, who, as director of his National Economic Council, coordinates the advice that goes to the president.
But according to the announcement, Ms. Romer wanted to return to her tenured position as an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, in time for her son to begin high school in California this fall. Her resignation is effective Sept. 3.
Peter R. Orszag left last week as Mr. Obama's budget director, citing personal reasons, and Ms. Romer's announcement had been rumored for weeks.
It has been common in administrations for either budget directors or heads of the Council of Economic Advisers to serve less than two years, and those in the Obama administration have been under uncommon pressures.
Ms. Romer had a bigger role than many predecessors in her job but was said to express frustration that she did not have more direct access to the president, or more influence.
At some cost to her credibility, Ms. Romer was perhaps best known publicly for her early projection that unemployment would not top 8 percent if Mr. Obama's $787 billion stimulus package became law; the spending was approved a month after his inauguration, but by year's end the jobless rate hit 10 percent.
''Christy Romer has provided extraordinary service to me and our country during a time of economic crisis and recovery,'' Mr. Obama said in the White House statement. ''The challenges we faced demanded more of Christy than any of her predecessors, and I greatly valued and appreciated her skill, commitment and wise counsel.
''While Christy's family commitments require that she return home, I'm gratified that she will continue to offer her insights and advice as a member of my Economic Recovery Advisory Board.''
Ms. Romer called it the ''honor of a lifetime'' to serve in the administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); ACADEMIC TENURE (70%); APPROVALS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



121 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Inventing Our Way Out of Joblessness

BYLINE: By PAUL R. MICHEL and HENRY R. NOTHHAFT. 
Paul R. Michel is a former chief judge of United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which handles patent appeals. Henry R. Nothhaft, the chief executive of a technology miniaturization firm, is a co-author of the forthcoming ''Great Again.''

 BODY:
AS President Obama and Congress search for ways to jump-start job creation in our stalled economy, their best strategy may be right under their noses -- in the voluminous backlogged files of the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
This is the agency, after all, that issues the patents that technology startups and other small businesses need to attract venture capital to pay salaries. Three-fourths of executives at venture capital-backed startups say patents are vital to getting financing, according to the 2008 Berkeley Patent Survey, a national study of patents and entrepreneurship. And startups are responsible for almost all the new jobs created in the United States since 1977, according to a study by the Kauffman Foundation. 
Unfortunately, since 1992, Congress has diverted more than $750 million in patent fees to other purposes. That has left the patent office itself underfinanced and burdened with a backlog of 1.2 million applications awaiting examination, more than half of which have not had even a first review.
To revitalize America's engine of entrepreneurship -- and create as many as 2.5 million jobs in the next three years -- Congress should, first, give the patent office a $1 billion surge to restore it to proper functioning. This would enable the agency to upgrade its outmoded computer systems and hire and train additional examiners to deal with the threefold increase in patent applications over the past 20 years. Congress should also pass pending legislation that would prohibit any more diverting of patent fees and give the office the authority to set its own fees.
Once the patent office is back to operating effectively, the backlog of 1.2 million applications should yield, judging from history, roughly 780,000 issued patents, about 137,000 of which would go to small businesses. Then, going forward, the agency could grant an additional 88,000 patents within three years. By 2013, small businesses would have received some 225,000 patents that they could then use to secure financing to build their businesses and hire more workers.
To be sure, not every patent creates a job or generates economic value. Some, however, are worth thousands of jobs -- Jack Kilby's 1959 patent for a semiconductor, for example, or Steve Wozniak's 1979 patent for a personal computer. It's impossible to predict how many new jobs or even new industries may lie buried within the patent office's backlog. But according to our analysis of the data in the Berkeley Patent Survey, each issued patent is associated with 3 to 10 new jobs.
So our guess is that restoring the patent office to full functionality would create, over the next three years, at least 675,000 and as many as 2.25 million jobs. Assuming a mid-range figure of 1.5 million, the price would be roughly $660 per job -- and that would be 525 times more cost effective than the 2.5 million jobs created by the government's $787 billion stimulus plan.
To encourage still more entrepreneurship, Congress should also offer small businesses a tax credit of up to $19,000 for every patent they receive, enabling them to recoup half of the average $38,000 in patent office and lawyers' fees spent to obtain a patent. Cost, after all, is the No. 1 deterrent to patent-seeking, the patent survey found.
For the average 30,000 patents issued to small businesses each year, a $19,000 innovation tax credit would mean a loss of about $570 million in tax revenue in a year. But if it led to the issuance of even one additional patent per small business, it would create 90,000 to 300,000 jobs.
Taken together, fully financing the patent office and creating an innovation tax credit could mean as many as 2.5 million new jobs over three years, and add up to 600,000 more jobs every year thereafter.
It only makes sense to help innovative small businesses make their way to the patent office and, once there, find it ready to issue the patents that lead to new jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



122 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: A Whirlwind Moves Into G.M.'s Marketing Office

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
NEVER mind the globe-trotting roue whom Dos Equis beer describes as ''the most interesting man in the world.'' On Madison Avenue, at least, that sobriquet belongs these days to Joel Ewanick.
Mr. Ewanick is in a bright industry spotlight for his new job as vice president for United States marketing at General Motors, overseeing a huge advertising budget that totaled $2.2 billion last year. But attention is being paid to him for other reasons, too.
G.M. is the third automaker for which Mr. Ewanick has held a marketing job this year. He began 2010 at Hyundai Motor America in Fountain Valley, Calif., where he was vice president for marketing, lauded for successful innovations like a guarantee plan sold under the name Hyundai Assurance.
In March, Mr. Ewanick left Hyundai for Nissan Motor America in Nashville, becoming vice president for marketing. Only two months later, he left Nissan to join General Motors in Detroit. 
'' 'Dude, you have to do this,' '' Mr. Ewanick recalled Mark Reuss, the G.M. president for North America, saying in a phone call that happened while house-hunting in Nashville.
''It was one of those moments,'' Mr. Ewanick said. ''In 60 seconds, I said I wanted to do it.''
Since arriving at G.M., Mr. Ewanick, who turned 50 in June, has been making changes faster than a Corvette races down a highway. In his first weeks, he dismissed the creative agencies for Cadillac and Chevrolet -- two of G.M.'s remaining four brands -- and moved their assignments to agencies with which he had previously worked.
More recently, Mr. Ewanick has hired additional new agencies, for tasks like social media and marketing to Hispanic consumers; begun seeking ideas for sponsored programming in the vein of venerable series like the ''Dinah Shore Chevy Show''; disclosed that G.M. would return as a Super Bowl advertiser in 2011 after skipping the games this year and last; formed what he calls an advisory ''marketing board of directors,'' composed of the top executives of the major G.M. agencies; and approved a decision to proclaim Cadillac as ''The new standard of the world'' in a coming campaign.
Oh, yes, and Mr. Ewanick is also trying to figure out how General Motors -- only recently emerged from bankruptcy -- ought to market its cars, trucks, crossovers and other vehicles during perhaps the most challenging economy since the Depression.
''It's like everything I've done in my career led to this,'' Mr. Ewanick said during a wide-ranging, 60-minute interview in Midtown Manhattan on Thursday.
And it is ''something worth changing your life for,'' he added, because helping G.M. recover is ''a noble cause'' -- although maybe not ''God's work,'' he agreed with a grin when that term, notoriously used by Goldman Sachs, was suggested to him.
When Mr. Ewanick took the job at Nissan, he said, he received 300 e-mail messages, but ''the day it came out'' that he was leaving for General Motors ''I had four, five thousand e-mails,'' he added, ''from people I did not know,'' and soon received dozens of documents, running ''seven, eight pages, saying, 'For what it's worth, here are some ideas.' ''
''The pent-up passion, enthusiasm, people have for these brands is huge, and it runs really deep,'' Mr. Ewanick said. ''We need to find a way to channel, to use, that.''
But, he acknowledged, for ''the last 30 or 40 years, consumers became so secondary'' for G.M. that ''they weren't brought into what we were doing.''
''I believe strongly in 'consumer first,' '' Mr. Ewanick said, and that will be demonstrated in the company's new campaigns.
The creative agencies for Cadillac and Chevrolet were abruptly changed, he added, because ''I need partners on these two critical brands that understand how to tell a story.''
In May, Mr. Ewanick moved the Chevrolet account to Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, from offices of Publicis Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe. The shift came only a month after the Chevrolet creative assignment had been consolidated at Publicis.
Mr. Ewanick had worked with Goodby, Silverstein at Hyundai and also when he was the chief marketer at Porsche Cars North America. He said, however, that he had not arrived at G.M. intending to hire his former ad partners, but rather made a change because ''we didn't think'' Publicis ''would be a workable solution'' for Chevrolet's needs.
''It was unfortunate people got hurt,'' Mr. Ewanick said, referring to complaints from Publicis executives about being blindsided by the switch. ''Mea culpa. We didn't do it right.''
As for similar protests last month from the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, which lost the Cadillac account after a six-month stint, those have been addressed, he added, and the handoff to the new agency ''has been almost flawless.''
Mr. Ewanick hired Fallon Worldwide in Minneapolis, another Publicis Groupe agency, to take over the Cadillac work; he had worked with Fallon, too, when he was at Porsche. That change came after a determination that Bartle Bogle would ''not be able to get us to where we need to be for the long haul,'' Mr. Ewanick said, whereas Fallon, and particularly its chairman emeritus, Pat Fallon, ''know luxury brands and how to operate in the auto industry with its quirks.''
The new theme for Cadillac from Fallon, which echoes the longtime slogan, ''Standard of the world,'' will express the brand's promise of ''red-blooded extraordinary'' performance, Mr. Ewanick said, and ''red-blooded luxury.''
It cannot be said that Mr. Ewanick is not a quick study. He joked that in hiring two additional agencies -- Big Fuel in New York, for social media efforts, and LatinWorks in Austin, Tex., part of Omnicom, for ads for Chevrolet aimed at Hispanics -- there would be no outcries like there were the last two times.
Mr. Ewanick said he was similarly cautious when discussions at General Motors turned to competitive matters he might have learned about at Nissan or Hyundai.
''I literally have to be very aware of certain things and be very careful about sharing things I know,'' he added. ''A number of times, I've had to walk out of meetings and say, 'Excuse me.' ''
Some knowledge, though, is hard to hide. Asked if G.M. might resume advertising during the Academy Awards in addition to the Super Bowl, Mr. Ewanick's smile suggested that the deal he made at Hyundai to be the exclusive automotive sponsor of the Oscars for 2010 seems to run through at least 2011.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: General Motors is the third automaker for which Joel Ewanick has held a marketing job this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); BUDGETS (76%); SPORTS MARKETING (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (60%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (72%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (72%); HYUD (LSE) (72%); 005380 (KSE) (72%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (72%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



123 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Mets Trot Out Reliever Of Last Resort

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Too big to fail. This was the slogan for all the wonderful financial institutions the federal government shored up in 2008 and 2009.
Can't get rid of them. That was the common wisdom about our friends from BP as they spewed oil into the Gulf of Mexico. Sure, they are ruinous polluters. But they are our ruinous polluters.
In their own lock-step way, the Mets have turned Oliver Perez into a man for our times, the pitcher who costs too much to fire. Perez is smack in the middle of a three-year contract for $36 million that ends after 2011. His earned run average was over 6.00 the last time I looked. 
Just his presence on the roster is enough to infuriate Mets fans who think the team ought to be better for its $126 million payroll and from all the cable money and gate receipts, to say nothing of the $20 million per annum in stadium naming rights from a financial institution, Citigroup, that you and I have subsidized.
The mere mention of Perez on the public airwaves is enough to make Mets fans start grinding their teeth, just the way I snarled at the tube whenever I spotted the smug countenance of that BP chief executive, Tony Hayward. He lasted months -- months -- while oil was spewing out of a Rube Goldberg invention at the bottom of the Gulf, while he was whining about wanting his life back. They finally got rid of the guy, but jeez.
In the same spirit of uncapped gushers, whenever the Mets are losing by a dozen or so runs, or the game meanders deep into extra innings, one or another of their broadcasters is liable to muse, ''This is an opportunity for Ollie Perez to get some work.'' In Los Angeles last month, Perez sent everybody on their way by yielding a game-ending home run. By now, the specter of his coming into a game is enough to get people clicking off their radios and televisions.
But wait; it gets worse. The Mets made no transactions at the trading deadline and are keeping Perez presumably because they would have to replace him with a major league pitcher and that would cost additional money. The club throttled a midseason burst of energy by activating (in a technical sense) Carlos Beltran and Luis Castillo. Even the supracool manager, Jerry Manuel, has acknowledged the season-snuffing effect of the moves.
To be fair, the Mets' front office did try to farm out Perez in the spring, but the collective-bargaining agreement said he had too much major league experience to be sent down to the minors without his approval. He refused to go, which he had every right to do.
Somebody spotted Perez walking gingerly in the clubhouse one day (maybe the floor was slippery; who knows), and the Mets were able to place him on the disabled list with tendinitis in the knee or in the earned run average or in something. They were able to shuttle him off to the minors for a bit, but now he is back, available at the bitter end of lost games.
This is not a personal criticism; undoubtedly, he has pride and is trying. For that matter, at $12 million per year, he is a bargain compared with some of the stuff we see in the much more flamboyant real world of the front page: failing wars, gas-guzzling cars, organized religions with their dark sides, crooked public officials, obscenely expensive political campaigns and financial institutions that produced a recession, then needed a handout. The first thing these guys did with your money and mine was give one another bonuses -- $1.6 billion by the latest count. You wonder: what do these people have on somebody?
Normally, we become inured to the crassness of our 24-hour sports fix: for instance, all the new stadiums going up around New York -- two baseball parks and the new football palace in New Jersey replacing a perfectly good one, already demolished.
The Jets are in training camp without a defensive back, Darrelle Revis, who has violated his $20 million contract for 2011 and 2012 by holding out for a new deal. Brett Favre is having his annual midlife crisis. Alex Rodriguez is selling memorabilia for every milestone home run. When is enough enough?
But then I read about a hard-working woman named Alexandra Jarrin whose life is in tatters because American financiers were playing games so they could have fourth vacation homes and third trophy wives, or vice versa.
Meanwhile, Jarrin is ensconced in a motel, surviving week by week, her unemployment benefits over, searching for job prospects online. I'd like to hear a dialogue between Jarrin and that guy from BP who wanted his life back. Or the Mets' management, which cannot bear to part with Ollie Perez.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oliver Perez is making $12 million this season, the second in a three-year contract, but his earned run average is 6.70. (B9)
 Oliver Perez refused to go to the minors in May and was placed on the disabled list. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RHONA WISE/REUTERS) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BASEBALL (89%); OUTSOURCING (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: TONY HAYWARD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



124 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PAYBACK TIME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3185 words

HEADLINE: Exotic Deals Put Denver Schools Deeper in Debt

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
In the spring of 2008, the Denver public school system needed to plug a $400 million hole in its pension fund. Bankers at JPMorgan Chase offered what seemed to be a perfect solution.
The bankers said that the school system could raise $750 million in an exotic transaction that would eliminate the pension gap and save tens of millions of dollars annually in debt costs -- money that could be plowed back into Denver's classrooms, starved in recent years for funds.
To members of the Denver Board of Education, it sounded ideal. It was complex, involving several different financial institutions and transactions. But Michael F. Bennet, now a United States senator from Colorado who was superintendent of the school system at the time, and Thomas Boasberg, then the system's chief operating officer, persuaded the seven-person board of the deal's advantages, according to interviews with its members.
Rather than issue a plain-vanilla bond with a fixed interest rate, Denver followed its bankers' suggestions and issued so-called pension certificates with a derivative attached; the debt carried a lower rate but it could also fluctuate if economic conditions changed. 
The Denver schools essentially made the same choice some homeowners make: opting for a variable-rate mortgage that offered lower monthly payments, with the risk that they could rise, instead of a conventional, fixed-rate mortgage that offered larger, but unchanging, monthly payments.
The Denver school board unanimously approved the JPMorgan deal and it closed in April 2008, just weeks after a major investment bank, Bear Stearns, failed. In short order, the transaction went awry because of stress in the credit markets, problems with the bond insurer and plummeting interest rates.
Since it struck the deal, the school system has paid $115 million in interest and other fees, at least $25 million more than it originally anticipated.
To avoid mounting expenses, the Denver schools are looking to renegotiate the deal. But to unwind it all, the schools would have to pay the banks $81 million in termination fees, or about 19 percent of its $420 million payroll.
John MacPherson, a former interim executive director of the Denver Public Schools Retirement System, predicts that the 2008 deal will generate big costs to the school system down the road. ''There is no happy ending to this,'' Mr. MacPherson said. ''Hindsight being 20-20, the pension certificates issuance is something that should never have happened.''
A spokesman at JPMorgan, which led the Denver deal, declined to comment. Royal Bank of Canada, which acted as the school system's independent adviser even though it participated in the debt transaction, declined to comment. Denver school officials said that they had agreed to sign a conflict waiver with Royal Bank of Canada.
Denver isn't the only city confronted with budgetary woes aggravated by esoteric financial deals that Wall Street peddled in the years before the credit crisis. Banks have said the deals were appropriate for the issuers and that no one could have predicted the broad financial collapse that put pressure on the transactions.
Still, some municipalities have found such arguments wanting and are pushing back.
Last March, the Los Angeles City Council told its treasurer and city administrative officer to renegotiate interest-rate deals the city had used to try to lower its debt payments with the banks that sold them. ''If they are unwilling to renegotiate, then those financial institutions should be excluded from any future business with the City of Los Angeles,'' noted a report by the City Council.
In Pennsylvania, some school districts have unwound interest-rate deals, and the state's auditor general, Jack Wagner, has urged other issuers to follow suit. ''For the sake of Pennsylvania taxpayers, I call on the other school districts that have entered into similar swaps contracts to get out of these risky agreements as soon as they possibly can,'' he said in a statement in February.
Financial stress from these deals could not come at a worse time for cities, towns and school districts already saddled with high costs and falling revenue. Although it is difficult to tally how many public entities entered into interest-reduction deals, a recent analysis by the Service Employees International Union estimated that over the last two years, state and local governments have paid banks that arranged these transactions $28 billion to get out of the deals, seeking to avoid further crushing payments.
Many transactions remain on public issuers' books. S.E.I.U. estimates that New Jersey would have to pay $536 million to get out of its derivatives contracts, while California faces $234 million in such payments. Chicago is looking at $442 million in termination fees to unwind its transactions, and Philadelphia would have to pay $332 million.
Both Mr. Bennet, whom the White House has praised for his innovative approach to education, and Mr. Boasberg defend the deal they recommended in Denver back in 2008. They say that it has saved the school district $20 million it would have otherwise had to pay to cover the pension shortfall, and they maintain that no one could have predicted the credit crisis of 2008 that elevated the deal's costs.
But the savings cited by the two men do not take into account termination fees associated with the complex deal. And had the school district issued fixed-rate debt, Wall Street would not have received the cornucopia of fees embedded in the more complex deal.
While the expenses associated with more complex transactions vary depending on the terms of the deal, Denver offers an example of the additional costs they can impose. So far, Denver has paid about $9.7 million more in fees for its deal than it would have had it chosen a simpler transaction.
Joseph S. Fichera, chief executive of Saber Partners, a financial advisory firm that specializes in structured finance, said that the type of transaction pursued by the Denver schools was a false solution for what the issuers want to achieve -- lower long-term costs -- because the banks selling the deals rarely quantified all of the potential risks involved.
''The issuer made a simple financing highly complex and took on substantial risk without knowing how large its downside could be,'' he said, referring to the Denver deal. ''The advisers and bankers may have disclosed that there were risks, but apparently did not help the issuer truly understand them. They typically present economic outcomes to the issuer only on projected savings and assume away any chance of the risks happening.''
THE PROBLEM
$400 Million Gap
In a Pension Fund
The Denver public schools needed to do financial contortions because, like many other public agencies nationwide, its pension plan did not have enough funds to meet the payments due to retirees. And for years, the school system had not met its required annual pension payments to ensure a fully funded plan; by 2007, the school system faced a $400 million gap.
The school system solicited advice from several banks on how to handle this problem and ultimately decided to issue bonds that allowed it to refinance its existing debt of $300 million, which had a fixed interest rate. It also raised an additional $450 million, most of which went into the pension to fill the gap in that plan. Together, $750 million was raised using the riskier pension certificates.
The Denver certificates contained debt issues that had variable rates and were to be resold to investors in weekly auctions; the arrangement carried an annual interest rate of around 5 percent, not counting fees and costs associated with that type of debt. Fixed-rate debt would have cost 7.2 percent.
Denver schools had issued pension certificates before, but this time the banks added a little spice to the recipe: an interest-rate swap that made the variable debt mimic a fixed-rate instrument. If prevailing rates fell, the school system would have to make up the difference to the banks. But if interest rates rose, the swap would protect the school system from having to pay higher debt costs.
It was a heady brew, one that required an unusual amount of financial expertise to assess. In that regard, Denver had an apparent advantage: Mr. Bennet and Mr. Boasberg.
Unlike many school district officials, both men were financially sophisticated. Mr. Bennet handled investments and structured financial deals for the Anschutz Investment Company, a private concern owned by the billionaire Philip Anschutz that has stakes in telecommunications and oil. Mr. Boasberg, meanwhile, was a deal maker in mergers and acquisitions at Level 3 Communications, a telecommunications concern.
''We looked at what the risks were,'' said Mr. Boasberg, who has been superintendent of the Denver public schools system since early 2009.
But according to several members of the board of education, the bankers' presentations for the 2008 debt deal outlined its risks only in broad terms, discussing, for example, what would happen if interest rates shifted or the economy weakened a bit. The banks provided no full-blown worst-case situations to the board, focusing instead on the transaction's upside: lower debt costs and a potential saving of $129 million in pension costs over the next 30 years.
School board members also said that bankers had not discussed problems in the variable-rate debt market that arose the previous year -- a development that would have alerted them to troubles they might have had securing a manageable rate on the debt that they were refinancing.
Nor, they said, had the bankers discussed the outright collapse of trading in auction-rate securities, a $330 billion market that ran aground in mid-February 2008. Auction-rate securities are very similar to the variable-rate debt the Denver schools were considering at the time; both types of securities involve periodic auctions sponsored by financial institutions to determine what interest rates will be paid by the issuer.
Like the structural weaknesses in the variable-rate market, turmoil in the auction-rate market should have been a warning sign for the Denver school system and its financial stewards. But according to board members, its bankers and advisers never sent up warning flares of this sort.
''I think there was discussion around financial markets as a whole,'' said Bruce Hoyt, a board member since 2003 and treasurer at the time the deal was done. ''I don't recall specific discussions about the freezing of auction-rate securities.''
In the end, Denver became ensnared in the financial maelstrom that was stirring even before it restructured its debt and that gathered force as the credit crisis deepened through the summer and fall of 2008. Prevailing interest rates collapsed, and the market for the Denver public school system's debt shrank markedly.
Denver's funding costs rose further when Dexia, a Franco-Belgian company that had facilitated the transaction and insured the pension certificates, ran into trouble. Worried about Dexia's financial position, investors fled any securities the company had insured, including Denver's debt.
In the end, a deal that JPMorgan said would have an interest rate of around 5 percent spiked to 8.59 percent during its first fiscal year, and has since settled down to an average rate of 7.12 percent today.
THE MISSTEP
Locked In for Years
As a Deal Sours
Financial advisers say that deals like Denver's might work for some issuers. But they say that their complexity can mask the fact that they often require issuers to give up far more than they get in return.
Like a homeowner, Denver essentially started out with the equivalent of a standard, fixed-rate mortgage that allowed it to refinance if interest rates fell. But the 2008 deal gave that up for the equivalent of a 30-year loan with a lower rate but significant penalties and costs if investor interest in the debt declined, as it did once the credit crisis kicked in.
Moreover, refinancing was extremely costly, given the hefty termination fees.
While such deals have become common in public finance circles, they are rare in the private sector. If corporations issue such debt, they will typically limit their terms to five years, which gives them room to maneuver as economic circumstances evolve.
Agreeing to be locked into a 30-year contract, as public entities have done, is especially costly because getting out of it requires paying penalties to the banks for every remaining year of the transaction.
Andrew Kalotay, founder of Andrew Kalotay Associates, a debt management advisory firm, said a deal like Denver's would be highly unusual among private sector issuers like corporations because they recognized the pitfalls of locking themselves into an arrangement for 30 years.
''I'm not aware of any corporations trying to get a better fixed rate'' by issuing long-term instruments such as those used by Denver. ''Why would the school district want to do this transaction with all the attendant risks of mispricing and the possibility of unfavorable unwind costs when they could have done a conventional, taxable fixed-rate deal?'' he asked.
Bankers, however, love these deals. In addition to the enormous termination fees they can snare, bankers also get remarketing fees and swap advisory fees.
Termination fees, however, top them all. Like the punishing prepayment penalties some homeowners have to come up with when paying off a mortgage early, termination fees on deals like Denver's are essentially charges levied to rewrite the terms of a contract.
To some issuers, termination fees feel easier to swallow if they pay for it by issuing yet another round of debt, like a consumer using one credit card to pay the penalty charges on another. But even though no upfront cash is paid out, yet another layer of debt is incurred, adding to the cost of getting out of the deals.
Denver is considering paying its termination fees in this fashion, Mr. Boasberg said. It was unclear what the interest rate would be on the new debt, but he maintained that the school system would unwind the transactions only if it were economical and the interest rate on the debt were low enough to offset the termination fees.
Had Denver issued a standard, fixed-rate bond in 2008, it would not be facing termination fees now. While it is possible that the annual costs of the Denver deal will come down in the future, they are now roughly in line with what the school system would have paid in a fixed-rate transaction.
Jeannie Kaplan, a board of education member for almost five years, supported the 2008 deal but now regrets it because of its costs and complexity. ''Bennet and Boasberg had been presented as financial saviors of the Denver school system, and I sat there wanting to believe what they were saying,'' she said. ''The board probably should have had their own financial consultant.'' Ms. Kaplan is a fund-raiser and active supporter of Mr. Bennet's opponent in Colorado's Democratic primary race for the Senate.
Mr. Boasberg said critics of the deal were politically motivated, pointing to the close primary runoff pitting Mr. Bennet, the former superintendent, against Andrew Romanoff, another Democrat, for a place on the ballot for the Senate in the November elections. But Ms. Kaplan said she started questioning the deal before Mr. Bennet was appointed to the Senate in early 2009.
The school system's 2008 refinancing is one of several issues that have come up in the runoff, including campaign financing, general integrity issues and Washington effectiveness.
Mr. Bennet became superintendent of the Denver schools in 2005 after he left the Anschutz organization to work for the mayor of Denver, John Hickenlooper.
From the campaign trail in mid-July, Mr. Bennet reiterated his support of the deal, saying that it had achieved the school system's goal of improving its cash flow and merging with Colorado's Public Employees' Retirement Association, which meant the schools no longer had to pay 8.5 percent interest on its annual pension shortfall.
''Despite going through the worst recession since the Great Depression, we did that,'' he said in a statement.
THE RESULTS
Another Shortfall,
And Cloudy Future
As Denver weighs its refinancing problems, it faces another conundrum: the money the city raised to shore up its pension fund has turned out to be inadequate because of the stock market's plunge.
The fund turned in a dismal performance in the credit crisis -- as was the case with most such funds -- losing almost twice the $400 million borrowed by the school district to plug the pension gap. As a result, the school system's pension shortfall recently stood at around $386 million, only slightly lower than it was two years ago, and even though $400 million had been funneled into it in 2008.
While the pension's merger with the state system allows Denver's school system to avoid paying interest on shortfalls, that benefit is temporary. If a shortfall still exists in 2015, the merger requires that it be closed.
Mr. Boasberg maintains that the deal has allowed Denver to hire teachers while other school districts are cutting back. But Henry Roman, president of the Denver Classroom Teachers Association, said that fewer teachers had been hired this year than in previous years.
Some board of education members fear that the human costs of Denver's exotic refinancing deal are yet to be fully realized -- and when they are, it will be in classrooms.
Ms. Kaplan says she is particularly concerned about the impact of having to fund the Denver school's pension plan fully in 2015 if investment losses have not been recouped by then.
''How is that going to affect kids and teachers and classrooms?'' she asked. ''It makes it difficult for board members to do a budget now.''
Payback Time: Articles in this series are examining the consequences of, and attempts to deal with, growing public and private debts.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 9, 2010; November 5, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the finances of Denver's public school system reported incorrectly an earlier connection between Senator Michael F. Bennet, a former superintendent of the school system, and Thomas Boasberg, the current superintendent. Both once worked in finance in the private sector -- Mr. Bennet for the Anschutz Investment Company and Mr. Boasberg in acquisitions at Level 3 Communications -- but they did not work together. The article also failed to note that Jeannie Kaplan, a former member of the school board who was quoted as criticizing a financial transaction reached during Mr. Bennet's tenure as school superintendent, is a fund-raiser and active supporter of Mr. Bennet's opponent in Colorado's Democratic primary race for the Senate.
An article on Aug. 6 about the finances of the Denver Public Schools referred imprecisely to a 2008 debt issue that contained an interest-rate swap. While the 2008 deal differed from a security sold by the school system in 2005 and carried more risk than the earlier version, both deals used an interest-rate swap; the 2008 version was not the first time that type of swap was used.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEFENDER OF THE DEAL: Senator Michael F. Bennet of Colorado, above, who as superintendent of schools in 2008 recommended the financing, said no one could have predicted the financial crisis that caused it to go sour. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
OPPOSING VIEWS: Thomas Boasberg, top, now Denver schools chief, says critics are politically motivated. Jeannie Kaplan, above, a board of education member, supported the bond offer but now regrets it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARL GEHRING/DENVER POST
 KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (62%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); RY (TSX) (62%); RY (SWX) (62%); RY (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (62%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BENNET (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (91%) COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010



125 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Gay Marriage Hits '10 Race

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Kansas City, Mo., and Malia Wollan from San Francisco.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- A federal judge's decision on Wednesday overturning Proposition 8 -- California's ban on same-sex marriage -- has tossed a largely unwanted issue into the middle of the November midterm elections.
The decision, which ruled Proposition 8 unconstitutional, has complicated the political tasks before President Obama, whose aides had to explain in the wake of the decision that the president supported equal gay rights but opposed marriage rights for gay men and lesbians.
Meanwhile, Republicans said that dwelling on the issue could become a distraction in the effort to win back the House or Senate from Democrats this fall. At a meeting of the Republican National Committee in Kansas City, Mo., several party leaders and strategists said it would be a mistake for the midterm election campaign to suddenly become focused on gay marriage, immigration or other hot-button issues. The only path to winning control of Congress, they said, rested on making an economic argument.
''This election needs to revolve around five issues: taxes, spending, the economy, jobs and debt,'' said Ron Nehring, chairman of the California Republican Party. ''That doesn't mean that other issues aren't important -- they are important -- but the first issue on the minds of people is the economy.'' 
Yet, the dread over the same-sex marriage issue was almost palpable as Mr. Obama's senior adviser David Axelrod tried to explain on MSNBC on Thursday that Mr. Obama opposed same-sex marriage, ''But he supports equality for gay and lesbian couples, and benefits and other issues, and that has been effectuated in federal agencies under his control.''
Regardless of worry among party leaders, advocacy groups on both sides made it clear they planned to make same-sex marriage an issue.
''Celebrate this incredible victory by defending it,'' read one e-mail that went out just after the decision was released. ''Will you give just $1 a day to help California's largest L.G.B.T. Political Action Committee elect a governor and attorney general who will refuse to appeal this ruling?'' L.G.B.T. stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender.
The pitch -- sent to more than 300,000 supporters of Equality California, the state's largest gay rights group -- was matched by those on the other side of the issue: the National Organization for Marriage blasted some of its 250,000 subscribers with a plea for cash, readied online advertisements rallying people against Judge Vaughn R. Walker's decision, and prepared for an Aug. 15 rally at the Capitol in Washington. Other conservative groups were ramping up campaigns against moderate Republicans -- like Bill Binnie in New Hampshire and Tom Campbell in California -- who are believed to be sympathetic to same-sex marriage rights.
''I definitely think it's going to have an effect on the 2010 elections,'' said Brian S. Brown, the executive director of the National Organization for Marriage, who called the decision the beginning of a ''major national culture war.''
''You're going to see ads, you're going to see folks standing up on this issue, and the people that support Walker's decision are going to pay a price,'' Mr. Brown said.
But veterans of the past culture wars say that many people's attitudes have changed about gays in America. ''I think it still enflames part of the right, but I think increasingly it alienates swing voters,'' said Robert Shrum, a senior adviser to John Kerry's presidential campaign in 2004, when same-sex marriage was seen a valuable wedge issue for Republicans.
Mr. Shrum noted that five states and the District of Columbia allowed same-sex marriage -- only Massachusetts did in 2004 -- and that the danger for some candidates who oppose gay marriage could be the perception that they are intolerant. ''People have got comfortable with the idea,'' he said of same-sex marriage. ''And increasingly uncomfortable with the idea of rank discrimination based on someone's sexuality.''
Likewise, Murray Clark, chairman of the Indiana Republican Party, said Republicans were acting at their own peril if they suddenly starting focusing on the ruling. A protracted discussion about social issues, he said, could play into Democratic hands. ''Can we declare a truce on some of the other issues unrelated to the economy?'' Mr. Clark said in an interview in Kansas City, Mo.
For Democrats, meanwhile, who are already fending off charges of overexpanding the federal government, Judge Walker's decision on Proposition 8 -- which set aside a 2008 voter initiative that passed by 52 percent of California voters -- also touched on the sensitive issue of states' rights. In his answers to MSNBC, for example, Mr. Axelrod was careful to note that Mr. Obama had respect for local voters, even if he did not agree with their decision to support Proposition 8. ''He does believe that marriage is an issue for the states,'' he said.
Mr. Brown said the decision -- the first of its kind at a federal level -- had effectively ''nationalized'' the issue. ''Two years ago, three years ago, you had some Republicans saying, 'I don't see a threat from the courts,' '' he said. ''Well, Judge Walker made clear that the threat is not only coming, it is immediate.''
Maggie Gallagher, chair of the National Organization for Marriage, which opposes same-sex marriage, agreed, saying that her group was looking even further down the line with the case, which was appealed Thursday by supporters of Proposition 8 and is likely to go all the way to the Supreme Court. ''We are also looking for opportunities to demonstrate that pro-gay marriage Republicans lose,'' she said in an e-mail, ''and to lay the groundwork for a federal marriage amendment, if the Supreme Court refuses to respect people's right to vote for marriage.''
For gay groups in California, meanwhile, the 2010 race is a chance to prove power at the ballot box. At a rally in San Francisco on Wednesday night, Geoff Kors, executive director of Equality California, told the crowd, ''Marriage equality is on the ballot this November.''
In particular, Mr. Kors said that the issue could arise in the race for the 45th Congressional District in Southern California, where the incumbent, Mary Bono Mack, a Republican, is facing a challenge from Mayor Steve Pougnet of Palm Springs, who is openly gay. ''We will do work on that race,'' Mr. Kors said.
Statewide, Democrat Jerry Brown -- seeking to return to the California governorship, a position he held from 1975 to 1983 -- has been vocal in his support of gay marriage rights, while his Republican opponent, Meg Whitman, has said she supports domestic partnerships, which afford many of the same rights. In a statement, Ms. Whitman said that she supported Proposition 8, but that Judge Walker's ''ruling is the first step in a process that will continue.''
For some, the political world was also colored by certain personal passions. Olivia Monesano, a 29-year-old waitress from San Francisco, was one of hundreds who marched in support of Judge Walker's decision on Wednesday.
She held a campaign sign for Gavin Newsom, the handsome San Francisco mayor and current candidate for lieutenant governor, who touched off much of the debate in 2004 when he ordered a city clerk to start issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. ''I'm definitely voting for him: he's been for gay rights from the beginning, he's a gay icon,'' Ms. Monesano said. ''And he's hot.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Friday about the political effects on November's midterm elections of the decision to invalidate Proposition 8, California's same-sex marriage ban, referred incompletely to the credentials of Maggie Gallagher, who commented about the future of the case. While she is indeed president of the Institute for Marriage and Public Policy, it was in her role as the chair of the National Organization for Marriage, not as president of the institute, that she commented -- including her statement that ''We are also looking for opportunities to demonstrate that pro-gay marriage Republicans lose.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A National Organization for Marriage recreational vehicle in Augusta, Me., on Wednesday. The organization plans an Aug. 15 rally in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT F. BUKATY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 In San Francisco on Wednesday, supporters of a judge's ruling overturning Proposition 8 held a celebratory rally and a march to City Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); MARRIAGE (92%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); COHABITATION (89%); JUDGES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); IMMIGRATION (53%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); DAVID AXELROD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010



126 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Law Will Extend Medicare Fund, Report Says

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Medicare will remain financially solvent for 12 years longer than projected a year ago -- until 2029 -- because of the cost-cutting measures in President Obama's recently enacted health care legislation, the program's trustees reported on Thursday. 
Social Security's long-term finances also stand to improve slightly, the report said, though in the short run the retirement program's condition has worsened because of high unemployment, which has reduced payroll tax revenues.
Both programs continue to face intense financial pressure in coming decades as the population ages and health care costs rise. Medicare, in particular, faces eventual insolvency if more is not done to balance its obligations to provide health care coverage to the elderly with the tax revenues that pay for the program.
Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund should remain solvent until 2029, or 12 years more than projected in last year's report, the trustees said. The long-term, 75-year shortfall for the hospital fund also is reduced, as are the projected costs of the separate Medicare Supplementary Insurance program. But both parts of the Medicare system will require additional reforms to be financially sustainable, the trustees say.
Social Security's long-range finances stand to improve slightly starting in 2019, they said, from a new tax that takes effect that year on the priciest health insurance plans, which generally go to highly paid managers and executives. The tax is expected to result in a shift of compensation for such individuals from health benefits to income, which is subject to the payroll taxes for Social Security and Medicare.
In the short run, however, Social Security's picture has continued to deteriorate because of the recession. For the first time, benefit payments this year will exceed the revenues coming into the program -- six years earlier than was projected in the 2009 trustees report.
The trustees project that Social Security's benefits and revenues will return to rough balance for the next several years as the economy continues to improve. But, they caution, the swelling of the retiree population by aging baby boomers soon will cause the program's deficits to grow rapidly.
Current payroll tax and interest income for Social Security will cover benefits through 2024, projections show. After that, the program will have to draw down the Social Security trust fund, which is not an actual reserve of money but an accounting device tracking the accumulated surplus. The fund is projected to be emptied in 2037 -- the same date as projected last year.
Thereafter, incoming payroll tax revenues would only cover somewhat more than three-quarters of scheduled benefits -- requiring reduced benefits, higher taxes or both.
''Despite the projection that Social Security can continue to pay full benefits for nearly 30 years, the sooner action is taken, the more options for reform will be available, and the fairer reforms will be to our children and grandchildren,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, a trustee, said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); AGING (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



127 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
INDONESIAN PILGRIMS' MONEY SAID TO HAVE BEEN MISUSED
Some 1.2 million Indonesians are on a government waiting list to perform the hajj, the annual pilgrimage to Mecca. But according to investigators and anticorruption groups, government officials and politicians misused about $2.4 billion deposited by those on the waiting list. PAGE A4
AFGHAN DEATHS IN STRIKE 
NATO officials acknowledged preliminary reports that four to a dozen or more civilians were killed in a coalition airstrike in Nangarhar Province. Afghan accounts put the civilian deaths as high as 32. PAGE A6
KENYANS CELEBRATE VOTE
With a new Constitution approved by voters, Kenyan politicians are now talking excitedly about their country's golden future. The peaceful vote was a much-needed boost of self-confidence for the country. News analysis by Jeffrey Gettleman. PAGE A7
A VIOLENT CODA IN RUSSIA
Gunmen in Nazran, Russia, opened fire on two police officials. Dead on the spot was Ibragim D. Yevloyev, a police official who had confessed to fatally shooting an opposition leader, Magomed Y. Yevloyev, two years ago. PAGE A9
Obituaries
DR. ROBERT M. CHANOCK, 86
A pediatrician, he discovered viruses that led to far-reaching improvements in preventing and treating common respiratory illnesses, particularly among children. PAGE B9
MARILYN BUCK, 62
She served more than two decades in prison for her role in the 1981 Brink's armored-car robbery in Rockland County, N.Y., in which three people were killed. PAGE B9
National
LOBBYIST IS CHARGED WITH HIDING DONATIONS
In one of the biggest ''pay to play'' investigations in recent years, Paul Magliocchetti, a protege of the late Representative John P. Murtha was indicted on charges that as a lobbyist he made hundreds of thousands of dollars in laundered campaign contributions. PAGE A12
OBAMA FAULTS OPPONENTS
Against a backdrop of American-made cars, President Obama cast his Republican critics as having lost faith in the American people and lacking confidence in the resilience of American workers, part of an emerging campaign strategy to try to turn the country's populist mood against his opponents. PAGE A11
EDUCATION GRANTS AWARDED
The Department of Education announced winners in Investing in Innovation, a $650 million grant competition designed to inspire educators to find new solutions for public schools. The biggest winners were Teach for America and the KIPP Foundation. PAGE A12
14 ACCUSED OF AIDING TERROR
The Justice Department announced the indictment of 14 people -- many of them United States citizens -- accused of funneling ''money, personnel and services'' to the Shabab, the Islamist terrorist group fighting an insurgency in Somalia. PAGE A14
New York
SALE OF CRUMBLING BUILDINGS MAY NOT MEAN RESCUE
With scores of dilapidated buildings saddled with unsustainable debt in foreclosure, city officials and housing advocates have warned that among the new wave of investors scooping up the properties are buyers who will allow conditions in timeworn buildings to become even worse. PAGE A16
Business
IN RETAIL, SLUGGISH SALES AND MISSED EXPECTATIONS
The second half of the year is off to a slow start for retailers, who reported that sales at stores open at least a year were weaker than expected in July, increasing 2.9 percent from July of last year, according to a tally by Thomson Reuters. PAGE B1
GOLDMAN GROUP MAY END
Because of the new Dodd-Frank financial regulations, Goldman is considering a step that once would have been unthinkable: disbanding its principal strategies group, the corps of market wizards at the heart of its lucrative trading operation. PAGE B1
U.S. CHANGES COAL PLAN
The Energy Department shifted course on a federal effort to capture and sequester carbon dioxide from coal-fired power plants, saying it would not finance construction of a new plant in Mattoon, Ill. PAGE B2
ISRAEL AND TURKEY BUSINESS
The political fallout has been great from Israel's deadly raid on a Turkish-led aid flotilla to Gaza. But when it comes to business, pragmatism is trumping tensions. PAGE B3
GREECE IS CLEARED FOR CHECK
Greece's international lenders cleared the way for Athens to receive the next installment of its bailout package, the latest sign that the crisis surrounding European finances was starting to ebb. PAGE B3
Sports
LOWER-BODY PADS GET AN N.F.L. TRYOUT
This summer the National Football League is determined to change players' minds about pads. During training camp and in preseason games, 12 teams are testing new girdles that have built-in padding at the hip, thigh and tailbone. PAGE B10
Weekend
A MAN, A WOMAN AND THE PYRAMIDS
In Ruba Nadda's ''Cairo Time,'' Patricia Clarkson and Alexander Siddig star as unexpected lovers exploring Egypt. What gives this movie its distinctive throb of melancholy sensuality is the intimation of a three-way entanglement involving the man, the woman and Cairo. A review by A. O. Scott. PAGE C1
A JOB ON THE SIDE
As it enters its second season on HBO, ''Hung'' has become an even more finely drawn satire of the Great Recession. Nominally a sex farce, ''Hung'' is substantively a commentary on the humiliations of middle-class life during a downturn, Ginia Bellafante writes. PAGE C1
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A19
Online
VIDEO The Times's Streetscapes columnist. Christopher Gray, resolves the mystery of what happened to missing colonnades from an iconic building near Astor Place in Manhattan.
nytimes.com/realestate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); HAJJ (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICS (89%); INDICTMENTS (86%); GRANTS & GIFTS (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRORISM (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); PEDIATRICS (71%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (68%); ROBBERY (68%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); FORECLOSURE (60%); POLICE FORCES (57%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: JOHN P MURTHA (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SOMALIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



128 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Wheat Hits 23-Month High After Russia Bans Grain Exports

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
MOSCOW (Reuters) -- Benchmark wheat futures rushed to a 23-month high on Thursday after Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia announced a temporary ban on the export of grain and related farm products from the drought-wracked country. 
With Russia at the mercy of its worst drought in over a century, Mr. Putin also pledged 10 billion rubles ($335 million) in subsidies and another 25 billion rubles in loans to the agricultural sector, adding that grain from the government intervention fund will be distributed to regions.
A spokesman for Mr. Putin said the ban would come into force on Aug. 15, fanning benchmark wheat prices in the United States which have risen almost 70 percent since late June.
Wheat futures on the Chicago Board of Trade sprinted up to the trading limit on Thursday, reaching a 23-month high of $7.85 -3/4 a bushel. This is still far from the $13.34 1/2 a bushel hit during the food shortage in 2007 and 2008.
The rapidly deteriorating crop outlook in the Black Sea region, worries about plantings for next year's crop and concern about the impact of Russia banning exports have fueled the searing rally in global wheat markets.
Last year Russia exported 18.3 million metric tons of wheat, a total only exceeded by the United States and the European Union, according to International Grains Councilfigures.
Fears about a repeat of the food crisis of 2007 and 2008 and inflation have been a driver in the wheat rally, but the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization said on Wednesday that such concerns were not justified.
The agency said world stocks, especially those held by major exporters, were enough to cover expected production shortfalls after two consecutive years of record crops.
''External factors, including the macroeconomic environment and developments in other food markets, which were major drivers behind the surge in international prices in 2007-8, are not posing a threat so far,'' the agency said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHEAT MARKETS (93%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (92%); FUTURES (91%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); DROUGHT (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010



129 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2010

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: 10 Ways to Use The New York Times for Teaching Literature

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: New York Times resources to complement the teaching of any fiction, nonfiction or poetry. 

 BODY:
 Updated with new titles, Feb., 2013 
Classics, contemporary fiction, young adult and graphic novels, sequels and adaptations: Here are 10 ideas that will help any teacher use the vast resources of NYTimes.com to show students the connections between any type of literature and life.
 1. Certain classics have appeared on a majority of high school English lists every year since the 1960's, and many, if not most, are likely somewhere in your own school's curriculum. We have made special Teaching Topics pages of Times and Learning Network resources for many of these, including: 

        
major plays by Shakespeare, including "Romeo and Juliet" and "Hamlet" 
        
50 Years of 'To Kill a Mockingbird'
        
J.D. Salinger and 'The Catcher in the Rye'
        
"The Odyssey"
        
"The Great Gatsby"
        
"Frankenstein"
        
"The Lord of the Flies"
        
Mark Twain and "Huckleberry Finn"
        
"The Grapes of Wrath"
        
"The Crucible"
        
"Death of a Salesman"
        
'Harry Potter'
        
Charles Dickens
        
"The Hunger Games"
        
George Orwell and "1984"
Use the comment field below to let us know what other works of literature you'd like to see us create a Teaching Topics page about. 
 2. But say you're teaching a book - perhaps a work of - that we haven't made a special collection for, and you want to scare up some relevant and interesting Times features to share with students. 
To find Times articles from 1851-present related to almost any book, use Site Search. Click on Advanced Search (on the right-hand side of the Search page) to narrow your search. To go back further, search the archives from 1851-1980. (Note that some articles are not available for free.) As needed, sort your results by "newest first," "oldest first" or "closest match." 
Take, for example, "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn." If you do a site search for "Huckleberry Finn," you'll see that one of its very first mentions in The New York Times came in 1885 in the form of an editorial republished from the Springfield Republican. Headlined "Trashy and Vicious," it comments on the Concord Library's ban of the book. Among other things, you would also find:

        
a 1902 letter from Mark Twain on the Omaha Public Library's ban
        
a 1984 piece by Norman Mailer on the novel's 100th birthday
        
a 1992 article about the source of Huck's voice
        
the 1995 article "Teaching Huck Finn Without Fear"
        
a 1957 editorial on the New York City Board of Education dropping the book
        
a 1996 article comparing the novel to "Uncle Tom's Cabin"
        
a 1995 essay on "Huck's" influence on literary portrayals of childhood
You might choose one of these for students to consider as they read "Huck," or you might have them skip through the archives themselves and muse on what they find there and how it affects their reading of the novel.
 Update: We have now made a special page for Teaching Mark Twain and Huckleberry Finn.
 3. To enrich students' understanding of works' settings, you might use Times Topics pages and the Multimedia/Photo Archive to find related articles, photographs, video, interactive graphics or podcasts. 
For example, if you're teaching "The Grapes of Wrath", the Great Depression page has a short overview of the social, political, and economic conditions of the period, as well as photo slide shows of both black and white and color photographs from the era. The page also highlights several videos in The New Hard Times series in which people who were alive during the Great Depression compare it to conditions today.
Similarly, Anne Frank's "Diary of a Young Girl,"Elie Wiesel's "Night" or "The Book Thief" might be taught using resources from the Times Topics page on the Holocaust, or with our 
And just for fun, the interactive Literary Map of Manhattan might teach your students about writers like J.D. Salinger and Ralph Ellison, or might inspire them to create their own map or that features the of another region, state or country. 
 4. Show students the relevance of what they read to "the real world" by having them connect key quotes from the work to news articles, photos and editorials in The Times that echo this idea. How do these three famous quotes, for example, resonate today? What contemporary connections can students find in The Times?

        
"It was the best of times, it was the worst of times." ("A Tale of Two Cities")
        
"No man, for any considerable period, can wear one face to himself and another to the multitude, without finally getting bewildered as to which may be the true." ("The Scarlet Letter")
        
"How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world." ("Diary of a Young Girl")
 5. Maybe your students are reading contemporary fiction like "The Kite Runner,""The Brief, Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao" or "Life of Pi". Or perhaps they're recommending new titles to each other in preparation for a . 
If so, the Books section offers podcasts and a blog with news and interviews about these and other popular books and writers. In December each year The Times also chooses of that year to recommend. 
 6. Or, perhaps, you teach young adult literature or pair YA novels with classics. In our lesson we highlight commonalities between the "Twilight" series and other literature, and the lesson can easily be adapted to work with any young adult novel, from the "Harry Potter" series to "The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian".
To give your students models of how to think critically about YA books, you might assign such pieces as the 2006 essay by Naomi Wolf about the "Gossip Girl," "A-List" and "Clique" novels and the 2009 essay by Ned Vizzini about stereotypes in young adult fiction. 
 7. A common literature class assignment: to consider or create adaptations of literary works. Students might rewrite a portion of a literary text, either updating it, writing a new story inspired by the old, telling the story from a different or recasting it in a new genre or under new conditions. 
You might also point out the many published works that reinvent classics, such as the recent legal battle over the "Catcher in the Rye" sequel illustrated. This article lists many famous "sequels," including the critically acclaimed "The Wide Sargasso Sea" and the creative
"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies". 
And if your students are critically reviewing film adaptations - or drafting their own ideas for the movie version of a book they're reading - they might find and read the Times movie review and other commentary on adaptations (such as Joyce Carol Oates's Opinion piece on the Disney version of "The Scarlet Letter"). These two lessons will help students compare book and movie versions of the same work: and .
 8. If your students are delving into author biography, a good place to start is the Times Topics pages about them. Find them quickly and easily using the drop-down menu on the right-hand side of the Books section, which features many writers from Jane Austen, Nikolai Gogol, Ernest Hemingway, George Orwell, Edgar Allan Poe and Albert Camus to Raymond Carver, Stephen King and Edwidge Danticat.
Use these pages to discover intriguing tidbits about writers, like how Amy Tan came to write "The Joy Luck Club,"why Sandra Cisneros got mostly C's and D's in 5th grade and how Salman Rushdie uses his computer to compose his works.
 9. Graphic novels, such as "Persepolis" and "Maus," are taught across the curriculum in many schools. Here are two useful essays about graphic novels, one about the genre in general, and another about their use in schools. Our lesson has students creating their own storyboards for graphic novels about adolescence. 
 10. For more ideas, explore our ever-expanding trove of . (Tip: All of our lessons on literature since fall 2009 are tagged but there are many more, going back to 1999.) 
You'll find a range of lessons about particular authors and genres, as well as activities encouraging having fun with and opening new vantage points on literature, such as these:

        
Quoth the Reader, 'Evermore': Creating Zines Inspired by Poe's Life and Work
        
'Me Fail English? That's Unpossible': Studying Literature With the Simpsons
        
Going Beyond the Book Report With Literature Exhibits
        
What's Your Reading History? Reflecting on the Self as a Reader
        

        
Search Me (Not): Imagining the Web Searches of Literary Characters
What other ways do you use The Times to complement your teaching of literature? Share your ideas here, and we may feature them on the blog.

        
Teaching 'The Lord of the Flies' With The New York Times
        
Teaching 'Frankenstein' With The New York Times
        
Teaching 'The Great Gatsby' With The New York Times
        
Teaching Shakespeare With The New York Times
        
50 Years of 'To Kill a Mockingbird'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); LIBRARIES (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); POETRY (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (74%); CURRICULA (73%) classic lit; classics; English; great lit; Literature; Books and Literature; Fiction; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Summer Special; Teaching Topics

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013



130 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: As Hiring Stalls, Shares Ebb and Bonds Rally

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The bond market in the United States rallied on Friday and stocks retreated after a snapshot of the national job market came in weaker than expected, stoking concerns about the economy.
When the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported its figures for July, there were several surprises. The overall economy lost 131,000 jobs and private employers added 71,000 jobs last month, the department said. Analysts had expected the private payrolls to record an additional 90,000 jobs.
The department also reported a sharply lower revision to the June numbers, to 221,000 jobs lost from 125,000. Joblessness remained high at 9.5 percent. 
Recent data on weak consumer spending and retail sales might have heightened market anticipation of this month's report. The news sent the stock market down more than 1 percent during the day, but it managed to recover some of the ground.
At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 21.42 points, or 0.2 percent, at 10,653.56. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 4.17 points, or 0.37 percent, to 1,121.64. The Nasdaq fell 4.59 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,288.47. Volume, as it has been all week, was light.
''We were all ready to be disappointed but it was a little more disappointing than we might have anticipated,'' said Brett Hammond, the chief investment strategist for TIAA-CREF Asset Management. ''We all knew the economy was taking a pause, but clearly the pause was there in June, even more than we anticipated,'' he said. ''Investors just don't know where to look.''
Despite the weakness on Friday, the major indexes all gained more than 1 percent for the week.
Even more notable was the reaction Friday in the bond market, where investors bid up prices as yields declined. Two-year Treasury note yields briefly fell below 0.50 percent for the first time ever.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 24/32, to 105 25/32, and the yield fell to 2.82 percent, from 2.90 percent late Thursday.
''There has been a rally across the bond market curve,'' said Raymond Remy, director of fixed income at Daiwa Capital Markets, calling it a ''flight to duration.''
''The reality is people are concerned about the economy and certainly about job growth and lately concerned about deflation,'' Mr. Remy said. ''All of those concerns bring money into the U.S. Treasury market.''
Tom di Galoma, head of United States rates trading at Guggenheim Securities, said: ''A lot of cash parked in the short end is starting to move out to the longer maturities.''
Economists noted that the jobs report was the latest in a raft of bleak data. Figures released last week confirmed that the United States economy slowed in the spring, and the employment report on Friday pointed to a stall in hiring this summer, as employers failed to add jobs at the pace they did earlier this year.
Quincy Krosby, a market strategist for Prudential Financial, said the fall in yields reflected the subdued employment data. ''And then you started to see, as the market started to recover, there was a lot of short-covering,'' she said.
Phil Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors, said a consumer credit report late in the day that came out better than expected might have helped the market recoup some losses.
Consumer staples, health care and utilities stocks rose marginally. Energy stocks fell more than 1 percent; industrials, consumer discretionary and financial stocks all fell.
''Right now energy stocks are moving with the economy and the economic news,'' said Brian M. Youngberg, an energy analyst for Edward Jones. ''For the week they were up 3 percent and yesterday was a three-month high for oil. So a little pullback.''
Exxon Mobil fell 74 cents, to $61.97. Pfizer rose 5 cents, to $16.24. Kraft Foods rose 70 cents, to $30.36. Procter & Gamble rose 16 cents, to $60.02.
The dollar rose to 1.3277 against the euro. Oil prices fell $1.31, to $80.70 a barrel.
Shares were also lower in Europe. In London, the FTSE 100 was 33.39 points, or 0.62 percent, lower, while the DAX in Frankfurt dropped 73.95 points, or 1.2 percent. The CAC-40 in Paris was 48.14 points, or 1.3 percent, lower.
Analysts said that the disappointing jobs numbers raised the possibility of the Federal Open Market Committee restoring quantitative easing measures, or buying assets and printing money to do so. The Fed is expected to make its announcement on Tuesday after its meeting.
''I would not be surprised if they restore quantitative easing after this report,'' said Mr. di Galoma. ''I think they will restore long-term purchases of U.S. Treasuries at some point this year.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); DEFLATION (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%)

COMPANY: TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



131 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Congress's Serial Hits on Food Stamps

 BODY:
With some shabby sleight of hand, Congress has begun tapping into the food stamp program for the hungriest Americans to help pay for lawmakers' higher election-year priorities. The Senate approved two important measures this week -- the $26 billion state-aid bill and the $4.5 billion school nutrition program -- in part by shaving food stamp funds as a target of least resistance. 
There is no denying that both of the programs are badly needed. The state aid package, regrettably compromised as it was, helps protect jobs for teachers and other workers facing layoffs. The school nutrition program provides the first improvements in a generation, including an increase in meal reimbursements and the power to set federal nutrition standards for schools.
But treating food stamps as the fungible means to worthy ends is a cowardly blight on Congress. After the Bush years of guilt-free tax cutting and deficit budgeting, lawmakers are self-righteously embracing pay-as-you-go legislation lest they be demagogued at the ballot box. So they resort to fiscal triage.
Originally, school nutrition was slated to be paid for by cuts in a farm conservation program. But Republicans rated this a high priority for the livestock industry. A deal was struck with Democrats to cut back on the scheduled boost in future food stamp benefits that was part of last year's economic stimulus. Food stamps took a second hit as lawmakers turned to it like an all-purpose A.T.M. to help cover the cost of state aid.
Senator Blanche Lincoln, a Democrat of Arkansas who fought hard to get the school nutrition improvements, told Politico.com that the food stamp increase was doomed in any case: ''You saw the teachers grab for it.'' Her comfort was those dollars would feed children. But this is a pale rationalization that downgrades the hunger of entire families. A companion bill in the House, yet to be paid for, is an opportunity to right this wrong.
In the crunch of the recession, if Congress lacks the guts to meet vital needs with deficit financing, it should have the decency to chisel some less-humane program than food stamps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NUTRITION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); TAX LAW (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (66%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (84%)

PERSON: BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



132 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. in Talks to Pay U.S. Debt, Chief Says

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
The American International Group has begun talks with the federal government over how to finish repaying its $130 billion taxpayer-financed bailout, its chief executive said on Friday.
Separately, he said, the company was making progress toward a potential sale of its consumer finance unit, one of several divisions it planned to shed as part of its turnaround.
''We'll make sure taxpayers get paid back in full, and they will,'' the executive, Robert H. Benmosche, said in an interview on Friday, as the company reported financial results that seemed to signal progress toward the repayment goal. ''They'll get paid back at a profit.'' 
The company reported a $2.7 billion loss for its second quarter, but the loss stemmed from a $3.3 billion charge related to the sale of a major international unit to MetLife. Excluding the charge, A.I.G. reported $1.3 billion in profit and $2.2 billion in operating income. Both figures showed improvement over the same time last year.
Mr. Benmosche, approaching his first anniversary as A.I.G.'s chief, has embarked on an aggressive campaign to sell off businesses, making the company much smaller than it was at the height of the financial crisis, when it faced possible collapse.
Along the way, Mr. Benmosche has clashed with some of the company's overseers, including Harvey Golub, who stepped down as A.I.G.'s chairman last month. The company replaced Mr. Golub with Robert S. Miller, a turnaround expert with whom Mr. Benmosche said he worked well.
A.I.G. has begun holding talks with the Federal Reserve about ways to pay down its credit line, which had $20.5 billion outstanding as of June 30, plus an additional $6 billion in accrued interest and fees.
Already, the company is moving forward with the sale of two units: the American Life Insurance Company, an overseas insurance business, and Nan Shan, a Taiwanese life insurance company. It is also on track to sell American International Assurance, its Asia life insurance business, in an initial public stock offering.
A.I.G. is also accepting bids for its consumer lending unit, American General Financial Services, and hopes to announce a sale sometime this month, Mr. Benmosche said.
The stakes of the turnaround strategy are high: only after shedding its reputation as a ward of the state can A.I.G. again flourish as a company, Mr. Benmosche said. So long as questions remain about its dependence on government borrowings, the insurer could be hard-pressed to tap the stock and credit markets for fresh capital, he said.
Once the debt is paid off, Mr. Benmosche said, the company can hold serious negotiations with the Treasury Department about the government's shedding of its nearly 80 percent stake in A.I.G. One option is to convert the government's preferred shares into common stock that can be sold off over time, as is happening with Citigroup. Mr. Benmosche did not give a timeline for any possible sale.
''What's important is that we have to get it right,'' he said. ''We have to make sure that we're not leaving a lot on the table.''
Meanwhile, A.I.G. has made big strides in the businesses it is keeping, Mr. Benmosche said. Investment income in both its general and domestic life insurance operations is up, and while revenue from premiums written has fallen, that was in part because A.I.G. refused to cut its prices too far.
''A year ago, analysts were talking about a potentially enormous erosion of our business,'' he said. ''We have in fact been very successful in retaining business.''
Mr. Benmosche said that earlier this year, he visited 50 of A.I.G.'s biggest customers, and described the feedback as positive. So long as the company continued to make progress in paying back the government, customers indicated that they would most likely stay put, he said.
Another major A.I.G. business, the aircraft leasing company International Lease Finance Corporation, plans to raise up to $4 billion from the debt markets to help pay off a lifeline extended by the Fed. It also recently named a new management team led by Henri Courpron, a former Airbus executive.
The company is continuing to wind down A.I.G. Financial Products, the unit whose deteriorating credit-default swap business was at the center of the 2008 financial crisis. A.I.G. said on Friday that the unit had reduced the notional amount of its supersenior credit-default swap portfolio by 51 percent from Dec. 31, 2009 to June 30, to $89.5 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A.I.G.'s chief executive, Robert H. Benmosche, said the company had been ''very successful in retaining business.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (85%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); COMMON STOCK (74%); SALES & SELLING (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (68%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); STOCK OFFERINGS (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE CO (64%); AMERICAN GENERAL FINANCIAL GROUP (52%); ASIA LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (52%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ASSURANCE CO LTD (52%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); 1299 (HKSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (64%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



133 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: He Still Plays Weddings: A Musical Polymath's Quirky Career

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
Lev Zhurbin, the violist, composer and arranger who performs and writes under the name Ljova, almost always has a lot of projects before him. If he isn't writing for, or recording with, his folk-classical ensemble, Ljova and the Kontraband, or performing in Romashka, a Gypsy band led by his wife, the singer Inna Barmash, he is working on film scores or transcriptions. (He has arranged Indian and Sephardic pieces for the Kronos Quartet; Asian and Eastern European works for Yo-Yo Ma's Silk Road Project; Schubert and Shostakovich compositions for the Knights, a chamber orchestra). But even by Ljova's standards, the coming week is unusually packed.
As part of the Silk Road Project's residency at the American Museum of Natural History, Ljova and the Kontraband are playing three short sets on Sunday afternoon. On Tuesday evening Ljova (pronounced Ly-OH-va) joins Romashka for a rooftop performance at the Jewish Community Center in Manhattan, where Roman Khrushch's new Russian-language film, ''Black Lamb,'' with a score by Ljova, will also be shown. And on Thursday the Kontraband offers a free evening in the recently remodeled David Rubenstein Atrium at Lincoln Center, which will include a screening of ''Cupcake,'' a humorous film by Sean McPhillips, also with a score by Ljova. 
Then, next Saturday afternoon, Ljova and the guitarist Clifton Hyde will perform a new score for a D. W. Griffith silent film, ''The Girl and Her Trust,'' at the Atlantic Avenue Tunnel in Brooklyn. And as soon as the film ends, Ljova plans to grab his viola and hightail it to the Bronx, to play at a wedding with his new, unnamed string quartet. (''We're fighting about it,'' he said of the naming project.)
Weddings have assumed an unusually large place in Ljova's professional life. A picture of Romashka performing at the wedding of Miranda Brooks, a landscape designer, and Bastien Halard, an architect, was published in the August issue of Vogue. And he traces almost everything he does now -- film scoring and arranging, in particular -- to the 10 years he spent, reluctantly at first, as the violist in Empyreal Strings, a quartet (sometimes augmented with harp and other instruments) that played in two to four weddings most weekends.
As it happens, Ljova and Ms. Barmash, who also sings in the Kontraband, are celebrating their third anniversary on Thursday, the day of the atrium concert.
''When I mentioned that to the people at Lincoln Center,'' Ljova said in a recent interview in the restaurant in the lobby of Alice Tully Hall, ''they said: 'Are you sure you want to do this? Shouldn't you celebrate?' But I told them, 'This is how we celebrate.' The day before our wedding, we played a show at Joe's Pub, and it was partly a wedding dance, with a lot of our friends, and partly a regular concert, with lots of people we didn't know. And it was tons of fun. Musicians in Russia celebrate this way.''
Though 20 years of living in New York have flattened his accent, Ljova was born in Moscow in 1978. (He turns 32 on Aug. 18.) His father, Alexander Zhurbin, a prolific composer best known outside Russia for his 1975 rock opera, ''Orpheus and Eurydice,'' and his mother, Irina Ginzburg, a writer and poet, moved to New York in 1990, partly because they found the post-Soviet economy too volatile but also because anti-Semitic demonstrations left them feeling insecure. (Now both father and son return to Russia several times a year, and a festival of Alexander Zhurbin's music is scheduled in Moscow in December, in honor of his 65th birthday.)
At first, Ljova was determined to pursue a straightforward career as a violist. As a student at Juilliard, he played in several orchestras and chamber groups, including Kristian Jarvi's Absolute Ensemble, which in 1996 devoted a full program to Alexander Zhurbin's music. But he was also influenced by an uncle, Yuri Gandelsman, who had been the principal violist of the Moscow Virtuosi and the Israel Philharmonic and refused to dabble in pop, musical theater or anything outside the purely classical music world.
''I wanted to be like him,'' Ljova said, ''a very serious viola player. And when I got into Juilliard, I thought that I would eventually get a job with the New York Philharmonic, and I could complete the trifecta of going to LaGuardia High School, Juilliard and then landing across the street at Avery Fisher Hall, so that I would spend my entire life on 65th Street.''
Then he got a call to substitute at a wedding. He knew his purist uncle would turn down the job, and he did too, at first. But the contractor called again, and he agreed, partly because the money was good and partly out of curiosity.
''It was interesting,'' he said, ''because it was the first time I played somewhere where people were not necessarily listening attentively. And we were using handwritten arrangements, where some of the notes felt wrong. So I did it and said goodbye. But a few weeks later, they called again, and I said no again, but in the end I played. And after that, they said: 'Look, what's not to like? This pays better than your community orchestra jobs. The food isn't bad. Be reasonable.' So I thought, I didn't really need the money, but it was very useful for buying CDs. And this was a quartet of Russian emigres, 10, 20, 30 years older than I was, and I thought, 'Maybe I can learn something from this.' ''
What he learned was how to arrange, improvise and compose.
''At first,'' he said, ''when there were wrong notes in the parts, I corrected them. Then I began changing them to see what other possibilities worked. Then I began writing parts that suited the personalities in the group, and from there I began improvising and learning how to play by ear.
''There were good days and bad days, but this definitely gave me a platform to try new things. I was always a viola hooligan. I almost got kicked out of music camps for doing things in chamber music class that are now called 'extended techniques' but were then just known as fooling around. So with my arranging, I had the freedom to fail, because people were not listening so intently that you couldn't take chances. And that emboldened me to try new things and to compose in a less serious, less academic way.
''And all that happened because I started playing weddings.''
Ljova's reputation as an arranger has since gotten him commissions from the Kronos Quartet, the Silk Road Project, Brooklyn Rider, the Dallas Opera and other ensembles. He also began recording his own works. For his atmospheric debut disc in 2006, ''Vjola: World on Four Strings,'' he multitracked viola parts, bringing in an accordionist for just one track. It occurred to him only after the fact that if he were to promote the album the usual way, performing the music live, he would need a band. So Ljova and the Kontraband was born. The group made its own first disc, ''Mnemosyne,'' in 2008. (Both discs are on Ljova's own Kapustnik label.)
The recordings became useful calling cards. A copy of ''Mnemosnye'' that made its way to Mikhail Baryshnikov was passed along to the choreographer Aszure Barton, who said in an e-mail that she ''fell in love with his music instantly upon hearing it.'' She has based several works on his pieces, including ''Busk,'' a collaboration that will be performed at the Baryshnikov Arts Center in December.
Ljova, meanwhile, has been thinking a lot about getting back to his roots.
''I would like to do more classical playing again,'' he said. ''I'm still hoping to learn the Janacek string quartets and play them in a concert someday. And the Bartok quartets. This is music that is easy enough to play but so difficult to make it feel improvised and balanced at the same time. And one day I'd like to play Elliott Carter's quartets. Because to me, they sound like jazz. So I'm starting to find my way toward playing the Carter quartets with musicians who improvise. One day, one day. We'll see how sidetracked I get.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lev Zhurbin, the violist, composer and arranger who performs under the name Ljova, also plays in a band led by his wife. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLAN TANNENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (76%); FILM (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); HISTORY (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



134 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: The Economy Needs a Bit of Ingenuity

BYLINE: By EDMUND S. PHELPS. 
Edmund S. Phelps, the director of the Center on Capitalism and Society at Columbia University and winner of the 2006 Nobel Prize in Economics, is the author of ''Structural Slumps'' and ''Rewarding Work.''

 BODY:
THE steps being taken by government officials to help the economy are based on a faulty premise. The diagnosis is that the economy is ''constrained'' by a deficiency of aggregate demand, the total demand for American goods and services. The officials' prescription is to stimulate that demand, for as long as it takes, to facilitate the recovery of an otherwise undamaged economy -- as if the task were to help an uninjured skater get up after a bad fall.
The prescription will fail because the diagnosis is wrong. There are no symptoms of deficient demand, like deflation, and no signs of anything like a huge liquidity shortage that could cause a deficiency. Rather, our economy is damaged by deep structural faults that no stimulus package will address -- our skater has broken some bones and needs real attention. 
The good news is that some of the damage done in the past decade will heal. The pessimism that broke out in 2009 is dissipating. The oversupply of houses and office space, which is depressing construction, will wear off. Banks and households are saving quickly enough to retire most of their excessive debt within a decade.
But other problems are not self-healing. In established businesses, short-termism has become rampant. Executives avoid farsighted projects, no matter how promising, out of a concern that lower short-term profits will cause share prices to drop. Mutual fund managers threaten to dump shares of companies that miss quarterly earnings targets. Timid and complacent, our big companies are showing the same tendencies that turned traditional utilities into dinosaurs.
Meanwhile, many of the factors that have long driven American innovation have dried up. Droves of investors, disappointed by their returns, have abandoned the venture capital firms of Silicon Valley. At pharmaceutical companies, computer-driven research is making fewer discoveries than intuitive chemists once did. We cannot simply assume that, when the recession ends, American dynamism will snap back in place.
Many pin their hopes for reviving the economy on gains in worker productivity. But such workplace advances often destroy more jobs than they create. That happened in the Great Depression, when increased worker productivity allowed companies and the economy to expand without creating new jobs.
The decline in American dynamism is not the only problem. It has been accompanied by a decline of what I call inclusion. Not only were low-wage workers largely cut out of the economic gains of the 1990s and 2000s -- much of the middle class was, too. In part, this is because the emerging economies around the globe have ended our competitive advantage in manufacturing, and jobs have fled. We can't compete in those industries any more, and our business sector has not yet found new advantages.
The worst effect of focusing on supposedly deficient demand is that it lulls us into failing to ''think structural'' in dealing with long-term problems. To achieve a full recovery, we have to understand the framework on which our broad prosperity has always been based.
First, high employment depends on a high level of investment activity -- business expenditures on tangibles like offices and equipment, and also training for new or existing employees, and development of new products.
Sustained business investment, in turn, rests on innovation. Business cannot wait for discoveries in science or the rare successes in state-run labs. Without cutting-edge products and business methods, rates of return on a great many investments will sag. Furthermore, innovation creates jobs across the economy, for entrepreneurs, marketers and buyers. State-led technology projects do not.
High business investment also depends on companies having confidence in the future. A company might be afraid to invest in research or product lines if it fears the rest of the economy is not doing the same -- or if it fears the government might become hostile to its goals. During the Depression, John Maynard Keynes warned President Franklin D. Roosevelt not to damage business confidence with anti-profit rhetoric -- to treat titans of business ''not as wolves or tigers, but as domestic animals by nature.''
What, then, is to be done? One reform would be to create a First National Bank of Innovation -- a state-sponsored network of merchant banks that invest in and lend to innovative projects. Another would be to improve corporate governance by tying executives' compensation to long-term performance rather than one-year profits, and by linking fund managers' pay to skill in picking stocks, not in marketing their funds. Exempting start-ups from corporate income tax for a time would also help.
We also need a program of tax credits for companies for employing low-wage workers. That may seem counterintuitive at a time when the Obama administration is pressing education and high-paying jobs, but we need to create jobs at all levels. Early last year, Singapore began giving such credits -- worth several billion dollars -- and staved off a recession. Unemployment there is around 3 percent.
A revamp of the economy for greater dynamism and inclusion is essential for prosperity and growth. Rather than continuing to argue over solutions to a problem we do not have -- low demand -- the country needs to focus on fixing the structural problems that, unresolved, will stymie the economy over the long haul.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



135 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: No Wheat Shortage, but Prices May Rise

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
The price of wheat had been falling since the last great spike in 2008, but in April, Guy Lapointe seeded 2,200 acres of hard red spring wheat anyway on his rolling land in Alberta.
Now, as prices jump skyward, he is about to send his two John Deere combines into his fields and relishes the higher price he will reap.
''It is looking up,'' said Mr. Lapointe, 46. ''One farmer's misfortune is another's fortune.'' 
The drought afflicting Russia's plains and the Kremlin's sudden decision Thursday to halt exports of wheat will undoubtedly have unexpected consequences across the globe. Farmers from the Midwest to France will fill the void left by Russian exporters, but food processors could get caught by rising costs. The higher prices could be passed to consumers of foods including pizzas, bread and bagels.
If prices rise further, the situation could resemble 2008, when drought in Australia and embargoes across Asia in foodstuffs like rice disrupted the global food supply and prompted some rioting.
But there is an important difference between the current situation and that last price spike: the Russian drought and ban on wheat exports, in contrast to the global shock in 2008 that drove wheat prices up to nearly $13 a bushel and created tensions in Indonesia and Pakistan, are occurring when global wheat production is plentiful and stocks in the United States are at a 23-year high, analysts said.
''This is still going to be the third-largest wheat crop in world history, even with the Russian shortfall,'' said Daniel W. Basse, president of AgResource, an agricultural consultant firm in Chicago. ''The question becomes, Will the drought persist, and will there be problems elsewhere, in other big producers like Argentina or Australia?''
Wheat prices have risen by about 90 percent since June because of the Russian drought and other factors like floods during the planting season in parts of Canada. As the price shock ripples through the supply chain, small food producers may be unprotected because they tend to buy flour on the spot market.
Larger companies, like Piantedosi Baking Company of suburban Boston, have hedged against cost inflation.
''Now that we are hitting the storm here, we are locked down fairly far, to the end of the year practically,'' said Joseph A. Piantedosi Jr., who runs the company with two cousins.
Papa John's Pizza said it had locked in its wheat purchases through the first quarter of 2011, and Domino's Pizza said it had also hedged.
The drought this summer had already pushed the price of wheat futures to their highest level since 2008. Amid growing nervousness on Monday, the number of wheat futures and options contracts traded on the Chicago Board of Trade reached record highs, beating the previous record set in 2008, and more than double the daily average so far this year.
Then on Thursday, the announcement of the embargo by Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin caused a further sharp swing -- prices hit their upper limits on all three of the exchanges where wheat futures are traded in the United States, in Chicago, Kansas City and Minneapolis.
''It was a really crazy day,'' said Frank Stone, 55, of the Kansas City Trading Group.
On Friday, the futures prices fell again, this time hitting the lower limits on all three exchanges, on tentative reports that Russia might honor some of its export contracts after all or at least postpone the embargo until after its wheat harvest.
According to Interfax, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said on the Ekho Moskvy radio station, ''The decision to ban exports could be adjusted, depending on the harvest.''
By close of trading on Friday, wheat futures for September delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade had dropped 60 cents, to $7.25 a bushel, still sharply higher than a few weeks ago.
Cash prices for wheat have risen less significantly than futures prices, traders and analysts said, reflecting the fact that wheat is in healthy supply around the world.
''We do have a lot of wheat in the U.S.,'' said Erica Olson, marketing specialist at the North Dakota Wheat Commission, a trade group. ''We have wheat left over from last year and a good harvest this year.''
This is in contrast to the big supply shock in 2007 and 2008. In 2007, for example, worldwide stocks had already fallen sharply. By 2008 they had fallen to the lowest level in 30 years because of falling production and higher consumption, Ms. Olsen said, quoting Department of Agriculture data. Stocks had recovered by May 2010, she said.
Maximo Torero, at the International Food Policy Research Institute, said the market reaction was overdone. Russia represents only 11 percent of the world's wheat exports, he said, and any shortfall could be met by major wheat exporters like the United States, Australia or Canada.
The real concern, he said, was that other countries would follow Russia's lead and stop exporting, a domino reaction around the world similar to the one in 2008 that could cause a sharper increase in prices.
Jack Scoville, vice president of Price Futures Group, a futures brokerage in Chicago, said importers around the world who had agreed to buy wheat from Russia and now faced the prospect of broken contracts would have to look for more expensive supplies elsewhere.
''There will be higher prices for them,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wheat ready for harvest near the Caucasus mountains in Russia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKHAIL MORDASOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 A baker in France, where wheat production is strong. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT KESSLER/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (95%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FUTURES (89%); WHEAT FARMING (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FAST FOOD (88%); RICE MARKETS (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (73%); BAKERIES (73%); HISTORY (50%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (80%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (51%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (80%); DPZ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (80%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (80%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (76%) CAUCASUS MOUNTAINS (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); PAKISTAN (75%); CANADA (73%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



136 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2278 words

HEADLINE: Budget Ax Falls, and Schools and Streetlights Go Dark

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Plenty of businesses and governments furloughed workers this year, but Hawaii went further -- it furloughed its schoolchildren. Public schools across the state closed on 17 Fridays during the past school year to save money, giving students the shortest academic year in the nation and sending working parents scrambling to find care for them.
Many transit systems have cut service to make ends meet, but Clayton County, Ga., a suburb of Atlanta, decided to cut all the way, and shut down its entire public bus system. Its last buses ran on March 31, stranding 8,400 daily riders.
Even public safety has not been immune to the budget ax. In Colorado Springs, the downturn will be remembered, quite literally, as a dark age: the city switched off a third of its 24,512 streetlights to save money on electricity, while trimming its police force and auctioning off its police helicopters. 
Faced with the steepest and longest decline in tax collections on record, state, county and city governments have resorted to major life-changing cuts in core services like education, transportation and public safety that, not too long ago, would have been unthinkable. And services in many areas could get worse before they get better.
The length of the downturn means that many places have used up all their budget gimmicks, cut services, raised taxes, spent their stimulus money -- and remained in the hole. Even with Congress set to approve extra stimulus aid, some analysts say states are still facing huge shortfalls.
Cities and states are notorious for crying wolf around budget time, and for issuing dire warnings about draconian cuts that never seem to materialize. But the Great Recession has been different. Around the country, there have already been drastic cuts in core services like education, transportation and public safety, and there are likely to be more before the downturn ends. The cuts that have disrupted lives in Hawaii, Georgia and Colorado may be extreme, but they reflect the kinds of cuts being made nationwide, disrupting the lives of millions of people in ways large and small.
EDUCATION: HAWAII FURLOUGHS ITS CHILDREN
MILILANI, Hawaii -- It was a Friday, and Maria Marte, an administrator for an online college that caters to members of the military, should have been at her office at a nearby Army hospital. Her daughters, Nira, 11, and Sonia, 9, should have been in school.
Instead, Ms. Marte was sitting with a laptop in the dining room of her home in this neatly manicured suburb of Honolulu. ''Did you already send your registration in?'' she asked a client on the phone, trying to speak above the peals of laughter coming from the backyard, where the girls were having a water-balloon fight with some friends.
It was the 17th, and last, Furlough Friday of the year, the end of a cost-cutting experiment that closed schools across the state, outraging parents and throwing a wrench into that most delicate of balances for families with children: the weekly routine
''I have to pay attention to the customers, and make sure that I'm understanding what they need,'' said Ms. Marte, 37, whose husband, Odalis, an Army major, had been deployed in Afghanistan for nearly a year. Then she nodded at the window, toward the girls. ''But at the same time, I have to make sure that they're not killing each other.''
For those 17 Fridays, parents reluctantly worked from home or used up vacation and sick days. Others enlisted the help of grandparents. Many paid $25 to $50 per child each week for the new child care programs that had sprung up.
Children, meanwhile, adjusted to a new reality of T.G.I.T. Getting them up for school on Mondays grew harder. Fridays were filled with trips to pools and beaches, hours of television and Wii, long stretches alone for older children, and, occasionally, successful attempts to get them to do their homework early.
But if three-day-weekends in Hawaii sound appealing in theory, many children said that they wound up missing school.
''I'm really not a big fan of furloughs,'' said Nira Marte, a fifth grader, explaining that she missed the time with her friends and her teacher.
Four-day weeks have been used by a small number of rural school districts in the United States, especially since the oil shortage of the 1970s. During the current downturn, their ranks have swelled to more than 120 districts, and more are weighing the change.
But Hawaii is an extreme case. It shut schools not only in rural areas but also in high-rise neighborhoods in Honolulu. Suffering from steep declines in tourism and construction, and owing billions of dollars to a pension system that has only 68.8 percent of the money it needs to cover its promises to state workers, Hawaii instituted the furloughs even after getting $110 million in stimulus money for schools.
Unlike most districts with four-day weeks, Hawaii did not lengthen the hours of its remaining school days: its 163-day school year was the shortest in the nation.
The furloughs were originally supposed to last two years, but the outcry was so great -- some parents were arrested staging sit-ins at the office of Gov. Linda Lingle, a Republican -- that a deal was hammered out to restore the days next year.
On the last furlough day, Ms. Marte toggled back and forth between her girls -- making them pizza, taking them to swim practice -- and a stream of e-mails and calls. At one point, a soldier on the mainland was interrupted when his baby started bawling.
''Don't worry, that's fine,'' Ms. Marte reassured him. ''I'm in the same boat.''
TRANSPORTATION: A COUNTY SHUTS ITS BUS SYSTEM
RIVERDALE, Ga. -- Kelly Smith was reading a library copy of ''The Politician,'' the tell-all about John Edwards, as his public bus rumbled through a suburb of Atlanta. It was heading toward the airport, where he could switch to a train to his job downtown, in the finance department of the Atlanta Public Schools system. But his mind was drifting.
It was March 31, the last day of public bus service. Clayton County had decided to balance its budget by shutting down C-Tran, the bus system, stranding 8,400 daily riders. Mr. Smith, 45, like two-thirds of the riders, had no car. He needed a plan.
''I think that what they're doing is criminal,'' Mr. Smith said as his 504 bus filled up. ''I'll figure something out, but I see a lot of people here who don't have an out.''
The next morning, this is what he had figured out: a state-run express bus stopped around three miles from his apartment in Riverdale. So Mr. Smith rose at 5, walked past the defunct C-Tran bus stop just outside his apartment complex and hiked the miles of dark, deserted streets, many of which had no sidewalks.
''If I get hit by a car, it's my fault,'' he said as he crossed a highway. ''Who wants to start their day off like this? This is why I don't get up and jog.''
Mr. Smith was determined to get to the job he had landed in November, and to get there on time. ''I was out of work for two and half years, with the economic crisis,'' he said. ''So the last thing I want to do is walk away from a job.''
Around the country, public transportation has taken a beating during the downturn. Fares typically cover less than half the cost of each ride, and the state and local taxes that most systems depend on have been plummeting.
In most places, that has meant longer waits for more crowded, dirtier and more expensive trains and buses. But it meant the end of the line in Clayton County, a struggling suburb south of Atlanta where ''Gone With the Wind'' was set and which is now home to most of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport.
The county -- hit hard by the subprime mortgage crisis and the wave of foreclosures that followed -- decided it could no longer afford spending roughly $8 million a year on its bus system, which started in 2001. It hoped that some other entity -- like the state -- would pick up the cost.
If the threat to shut the system down was a game of chicken, no one blinked.
Now all five bus routes are gone, and riders are trying to adjust.
Jennifer McDaniel, a hostess at a Chili's in the airport, was forced to spend her tax refund, and take out a big loan, to buy a car. Jaime Tejada, 36, a Delta flight attendant, wondered why transit was so much better in the countries he flies to.
And Tierra Clark, 19, who studies dental hygiene and works five nights a week at the Au Bon Pain at the airport, was left with an unwanted new expense. ''I'll have to call a taxi from now on -- $13.75 every night,'' Ms. Clark said, as she rode the very last C-Tran bus home.
Now there is talk of levying a new sales tax so the county can join the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority, which it voted not to join when it was created nearly four decades ago. That could get the buses up and running again.
Even if that happens, though, it could be years off -- too late for Mr. Smith. After spending a carless Easter vacation trying to figure out a better way to get to work, or even to get his groceries, he ended up quitting his first job in two and a half years and moving just outside Dallas, where his girlfriend had landed a job with a bank.
''A lot of people are leaving Riverdale,'' he said.
PUBLIC SAFETY: LIGHTS OUT IN COLORADO SPRINGS
COLORADO SPRINGS -- It was when the street lights went out, Diane Cunningham said, that the trouble started.
Her tires were slashed, she said. Her car was broken into. Strange men showed up on her porch. Her neighborhood had grown deserted at night, ever since four streetlights in a row were put out on Airport Road, the street outside her mobile home park.
That is why Ms. Cunningham, 41, and her son Jonathan, 22, were carrying a flat-screen television out of their mobile home on a recent afternoon. ''I'm going to pawn this,'' Ms. Cunningham said, ''to get a shotgun.''
It is impossible to say whether the darkness had contributed to any of the events that frightened the Cunninghams. But ever since Colorado Springs shut off a third of its 24,512 streetlights this winter to save $1.2 million on electricity -- while reducing the size of its police force -- many residents have said that they feel less safe.
A few miles down Airport Road a 62-year-old man, Esteban Garcia, was shot to death in April when he was robbed outside his family's taqueria and grocery in a parking lot that had lost the illumination of its nearest streetlight. Gaspar Martinez, a neighboring shopkeeper, said that he believed the lack of the light was partly to blame.
''You figure the robbers think that if it's dark, it's the best time to hit,'' said Mr. Martinez, 34, whose store, Ruskin Liquor, is in the same small strip mall. Mr. Martinez said that he put more lights up outside his store after the shooting.
The police, who arrested several suspects, said that there was no indication that the doused light had played a role in the crime -- or, indeed, in any crimes in Colorado Springs, which remains safer than most cities of its size. But this might be a case, they said, where perception is as important as reality.
''All the sociologists have said this for years: what matters to people isn't really the number of reported crimes, it's their perception of safety,'' said the city's police chief, Richard W. Myers. ''And let's say we don't see any bump in crime -- that would be a good thing. But people don't feel as safe. They're already telling us that, even if the numbers don't bear that out. So do we have a problem? I think so.''
Chief Myers said he worried that if law-abiding citizens stopped going out at night or visiting parks, the city's deserted open spaces could attract more criminals.
One of most influential policing concepts in recent years has been the ''broken windows'' theory, which holds that addressing minor crimes and signs of disorder can head off bigger problems down the road. Colorado Springs is taking a different tack.
To close a budget gap -- the city's voters, many of whom favor smaller government, turned down a property tax increase in November, and a taxpayer's bill of rights makes it hard for city officials to raise taxes -- Colorado Springs has stopped collecting trash in its parks, stopped watering many medians on its roads and reduced its police force.
The sprawling city of roughly 400,000 at the foot of Pike's Peak -- which covers 194 square miles -- made national news when it auctioned off its police helicopters. But less-heralded police cuts could have more impact: the force, which had 687 officers two years ago, is down to 643 and dropping. At any given time, the department estimates that there is a 23 percent chance that all units will be busy.
So it has reduced the number of detectives who investigate property crimes, cut the number of officers assigned to the schools and eliminated units that tracked juvenile offenders and caught fugitives. Officers no longer respond to the scene of most burglaries, at least if they are not in progress.
At the same time, the city joined others -- from Fitchburg, Mass., to Santa Rosa, Calif., and began turning off streetlights. Several recent studies have suggested that streetlights help reduce crime -- something residents here say is obvious.
Natalie Bartling, a new mother, could not believe it when the light outside her home was shut off in April. Ms. Bartling, 38, had successfully lobbied for the light five years ago after a wave of vandalism and petty thefts hit her middle-class block. So this time she called daily until the city agreed to turn it back on.
''When it got shut off, it was like missing something,'' she said on a recent night, standing under its glow. ''Part of your life.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Colorado Springs shut off a third of its 24,512 streetlights but reinstated this one after a new mother complained every day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANA ROMANOFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Commuters taking one of the last rides on a C-Tran bus in Clayton County, Ga., a suburb of Atlanta. The county ceased all C-Tran service on March 31, saving $8 million a year but stranding 8,400 daily riders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENDRICK BRINSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Officer Martin Herrera checks on a car stopped for a traffic violation in Colorado Springs, a city of 400,000 that reduced its police force to 643 officers from 687 in 2008 and shut off a third of its 24,512 streetlights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANA ROMANOFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Children whose families paid $25 for private day care at Manoa Elementary, in Honolulu, played in May outside its locked doors in a rainstorm on a Furlough Friday -- one of 17 for the school year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO GARCIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (78%); COUNTIES (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); APPROVALS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); CITIES (69%); ARMIES (64%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (60%); HELICOPTERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (90%) HAWAII, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



137 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: A Slowdown in Trade, but a Pickup in Services

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
THE rebound in trade that bolstered world growth in late 2009 and early this year appears to have ended, leaving the manufacturing sector in many countries with the prospect of slower growth. 
Surveys of manufacturing and service companies in countries around the world, released this week, indicated that growth in services, by contrast, had accelerated in many countries, including the United States.
The surveys, created by the Institute for Supply Management in the United States, and recreated in many other countries by Markit, are not intended to show the level of business activity, but whether conditions are improving or worsening.
The accompanying charts focus on one aspect of the monthly surveys, on whether the volume of new orders each company receives is higher or lower than the volume in the previous month. The figures as released have 50 as a break-even level, but they are rebased for the charts so that zero indicates as many companies are reporting order increases as are reporting decreases. The higher the number, the larger the share of companies reporting higher orders.
''Global trade is starting to slow,'' said Chris Williamson, the chief economist of Markit. He added that inventory rebuilding after the credit crisis eased led to extraordinary gains. That period, he said, is over. ''Companies are either deciding they have enough inventories, or they have grown a little more worried about the outlook and are not increasing orders,'' he said.
The biggest gains early in the recovery were reported by Asian manufacturers, but those have now slowed. More Chinese manufacturers reported declining orders than increasing ones in both June and July. Taiwan's orders turned down in July, but South Korean and Indian companies were still reporting growing order books.
In Europe, some euro zone economies continue to report sharply rising orders, most notably Germany. Even in Greece, where the proportion of companies reporting declining orders has been overwhelming, the picture became a little less bleak in July. Orders are rising for British manufacturers as well, although Mr. Williamson said he was concerned that that could change as the government imposed its austerity budget.
Service companies are more likely to be getting domestic orders, and the fact that those figures have remained solidly positive in most countries -- though not in Japan -- indicates some resilience in economies even as the international trading surge subsides.
While overall economic growth may have slowed in the last couple of months, the improvement in the nonmanufacturing index is consistent with a moderate recovery, not a sharp slowdown, according to Nicholas Tenev, an economist for Barclays Capital.
After analyzing the Chinese reports by company size, Mr. Williamson said that large manufacturing companies appeared to be suffering the most, but that smaller ones were also starting to see declines in orders. So far, medium-size companies are more likely to report gains in orders than declines.
The slowdown in the second quarter in the United States, along with the government finance problems in some European nations, have contributed to negative sentiment, prompting talk about a return to recession. ''I don't think a double dip is in the cards'' for the United States, Mr. Williamson said. But he added that he was worried that austerity could slow European economies and that such a slowing could hurt growth in the United States later this year.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Surveys of companies show orders continue to grow for manufacturers and service providers in most countries, but at a slower rate than earlier in the year. But in China, more manufacturers are reporting declines, with large companies the hardest hit. (Source: Markit) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); NEW ORDERS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); EURO ZONE (68%); CREDIT CRISIS (66%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GREECE (68%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



138 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Coverage Turns, Cautiously, to Spill Impact

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
And on the 106th day -- after all the top kills and top hats and junk shots -- the runaway oil well in the Gulf of Mexico finally seemed close to being tamed. Or was it?
It could be ''the beginning of the end,'' Katie Couric told viewers Tuesday on the ''CBS Evening News.'' The same phrase, with an extra ''perhaps'' attached to it, was used over on ''NBC Nightly News.'' But Diane Sawyer did away with the caveats on ABC. 
''Final fix,'' she declared Tuesday on ''World News Tonight.'' ''Tonight the permanent seal of the oil spill is under way.''
Newsrooms are grappling with the same questions that the rest of the country is, after spending months watching oil gush into the water: Is the oil spill really over? And how damaging will it ultimately be to the gulf's environment and economy?
The conundrum for television, print and online journalists alike has been that no one wanted to declare ''Mission Accomplished'' on the gushing oil portion of the calamity prematurely. But no one wanted to be the last to report that the leak had been plugged.
Assuming the current cement plug holds, any number of dates could qualify as the end of the spill. No significant oil has leaked since the well was tightly capped in mid-July, officials said -- an event ''NBC Nightly News'' also said ''could be the beginning of the end.''
This week's ''static kill,'' an effort to plug the well with mud and then cement, seems to have worked. But the final stake through the heart -- the relief well being drilled to make sure the well is dead -- is not expected until later this month.
Then there is the once-bitten, twice-shy phenomenon, some news executives said, citing all the false starts and overly optimistic predictions of the past three months -- the initial claim that there did not appear to be a significant oil leak, the vastly underestimated early guesses of how much oil was pouring into the gulf, the overly rosy assessments of past efforts to stanch the flow.
But by Friday, the seal seemed to be holding. Even The Times-Picayune -- which has defended local interests in New Orleans and the region by casting a skeptical eye on any premature efforts to declare the crisis over -- ran an upbeat headline on Friday's front page: ''End in Sight as Cement Pumped into Rogue Well.''
Now the coverage will shift from engineering to the environment and the economy.
''It's clear that one part of this story is over, and I think that's all fine and good, and it took a very long time,'' said Jon Banner, the executive producer of ''World News.'' ''I think it's also clear that another part of this story is far from over.''
With the oil contained, possibly for good, another front has opened in the coverage: questions of how much oil is left in the water, and how damaging it will prove.
Time magazine ran a story questioning if the environmental damage of the spill had been overstated. When The New York Times reported that a federal study had found that nearly three-quarters of the spill had been collected, skimmed, burned or dispersed, some critics complained that it should have been more skeptical. Anderson Cooper, the CNN reporter who became one of the most visible faces of the spill, with weeks of coverage from the gulf, asked on his show last week, ''Has the BP oil spill been overblown by politicians and scientists and media, including me?''
Recent reports that much of the oil seemed to have disappeared from the surface of the gulf prompted fierce reactions in the region.
''Some paint a rosy picture of crisis's end, but experts say looks can be deceiving,'' ran a front-page headline in The Times-Picayune. And a blog post on the Web site of Gambit, an alternative weekly paper, suggested that the ''most elemental concept of object permanence seemed to elude the national media.''
''Kinda like when you're playing peekaboo with a baby, you know?'' wrote Kevin Allman. '''Just because you can't see it doesn't mean it's gone away.''
Andrew Tyndall, who tracks the evening newscasts, said that the Exxon Valdez oil spill got 203 minutes of coverage on them in 1989, the year of the spill. The BP oil spill, which sent far more oil into the water, also got far more coverage, he found: 1,100 minutes on the three nightly newscasts in just the first three months. In a provocative post last month, he argued that the coverage was excessive, compared with other disasters and major news stories, and suggested less national coverage. ''Enough already!'' he wrote.
News executives said that they had no intention of heeding that advice, and that they were committed to covering the lingering impacts of the spill.
''The story goes on,'' said Bob Epstein, the executive producer of ''NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams,'' who has crews living on house boats in the region. ''Yeah, the Coast Guard and BP have certainly been successful at cementing the well, and the final kill, or whatever they are calling it, happens in a week or so, but we have not scaled back our commitment to the story.''
And there is no guarantee that the ''killed'' well would not be revived some day.
A BP official left open the possibility that the company could drill again someday in the same area, a mile beneath the surface.
''There's lots of oil and gas here,'' the company's chief operating officer, Doug Suttles, said, according to The Associated Press. ''We're going to have to think about what to do with that at some point.''
BP later clarified, saying that the future use of the reservoir was not currently under consideration.
Correction: 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2010, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about news media coverage of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico misstated the name of an alternative weekly newspaper in New Orleans. It is Gambit, not The Gambitative.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: News organizations are grappling with the same questions that the rest of the country is, after spending months watching oil gush into the water: Is the spill really over? And how damaging will it ultimately be to the gulf's environment and economy? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); JOURNALISM (76%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (52%)

PERSON: DIANE SAWYER (56%); KATIE COURIC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010



139 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Putting Our Brains On Hold

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The world leadership qualities of the United States, once so prevalent, are fading faster than the polar ice caps.
We once set the standard for industrial might, for the advanced state of our physical infrastructure, and for the quality of our citizens' lives. All are experiencing significant decline.
The latest dismal news on the leadership front comes from the College Board, which tells us that the U.S., once the world's leader in the percentage of young people with college degrees, has fallen to 12th among 36 developed nations. 
At a time when a college education is needed more than ever to establish and maintain a middle-class standard of living, America's young people are moving in exactly the wrong direction. A well-educated population also is crucially important if the U.S. is to succeed in an increasingly competitive global environment.
But instead of exercising the appropriate mental muscles, we're allowing ourselves to become a nation of nitwits, obsessed with the comings and goings of Lindsay Lohan and increasingly oblivious to crucially important societal issues that are all but screaming for attention. What should we be doing about the legions of jobless Americans, the deteriorating public schools, the debilitating wars, the scandalous economic inequality, the corporate hold on governmental affairs, the commercialization of the arts, the deficits?
Why is there not serious and widespread public engagement with these issues -- and many others that could easily come to mind? That kind of engagement would lead to creative new ideas and would serve to enrich the lives of individual Americans and the nation as a whole. But it would require a heavy social and intellectual lift.
According to a new report from the College Board, the U.S. is 12th among developed nations in the percentage of 25- to 34-year-olds with college degrees. The report said, ''As America's aging and highly educated work force moves into retirement, the nation will rely on young Americans to increase our standing in the world.''
The problem is that today's young Americans are not coming close to acquiring the education and training needed to carry out that mission. They're not even in the ballpark. In that key group, 25- to 34-year-olds with a college degree, the U.S. ranks behind Canada, South Korea, Russia, Japan, New Zealand, Ireland, Norway, Israel, France, Belgium and Australia. That is beyond pathetic.
''While the nation struggles to strengthen the economy,'' the report said, ''the educational capacity of our country continues to decline.''
Everybody is to blame -- parents, students, the educational establishment, government leaders, the news media and on and on. A society that closes its eyes to the most important issues of the day, that often holds intellectual achievement in contempt, that is more interested in hip-hop and Lady Gaga than educating its young is all but guaranteed to spiral into a decline.
Speaking this week about the shortage of degrees in the 25- to 34-year-old demographic, Gaston Caperton, the president of the College Board and a former governor of West Virginia, said, ''When I was in school, we were No. 1 in the world in college graduations. When I was governor, we were third, and I was surprised by that drop. Now we're 12th at a time when a good education is critically important to getting a decent job.''
Among other things, he called on educators to develop curricula that are more ''interesting and inspiring.'' And he said it is essential for students to work harder.
These are gloomy times in the United States. A child drops out of high school every 26 seconds. As incredible as it seems from the perspective of 2010, the report from the College Board tells us that ''it is expected that the educational level of the younger generation of Americans will not approach their parents' level of education.''
What is the matter with us? Have we been drinking? Whatever happened to that vaunted American dream? In Hawaii, the public schools were closed on 17 Fridays during the past school year for budget reasons.
When this is the educational environment, you can say goodbye to the kind of cultural, scientific and economic achievements that combine to make a great nation. We no longer know how to put our people to work. We read less and less and write like barbarians. We've increasingly turned our backs on the very idea of hard-won excellence while flinging open the doors to decadence and decline. No wonder Lady Gaga and Snooki from ''Jersey Shore'' are cultural heroes.
In their important book, ''The Race Between Education and Technology,'' the Harvard economists Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz pointed out that educational attainment in the U.S. ''was exceptionally rapid and continuous for the first three-quarters of the 20th century.''
Then, foolishly, we applied the brakes. All that's at stake is our future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (57%)

PERSON: LINDSAY LOHAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); BELGIUM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



140 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Demystifying, and Maybe Decreasing, the Emergency Room Bill

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
DURING a snowstorm last winter, my 6-year-old son fell and cut his chin -- not outside on the ice, but inside on the tile bathroom floor. My husband walked our son, Charlie, through the knee-high snow to the local emergency room.
Charlie's gash was small, less than half an inch long, but deep. The hospital called in a plastic surgeon, who put 14 tiny stitches into his chin.
Charlie called the incident ''the worst day of my life'' -- mostly because he had to spend hours in a hospital instead of throwing snowballs. Weeks later, when the bills arrived, we had our own bad day.
The total charges for his minor spill came to $5,398. The largest single charge was a shocking $4,950 from the plastic surgeon. 
Emergency room bills are notoriously high and perplexing; patients often are left feeling like captives who have few alternatives. It is impossible to know how much the services will cost when you walk in the door. The hospital bill, which arrives weeks later, may include seemingly inflated charges for things like Tylenol or an M.R.I. Doctors who treated you may send their own separate bills, further complicating the payment process.
The first step toward managing this expense is understanding what goes on in the hospital's billing department.
NOBODY PAYS RETAIL The majority of hospitals are required by law to treat any person who walks into an emergency room whether that person has insurance or not. To make up for those who cannot or will not pay, a hospital sets its so-called gross charges very high.
At the same time, hospitals negotiate contracts with managed care and commercial insurance carriers that specify prices much lower than the gross charges. Medicare and Medicaid dictate lower rates for medical services to hospitals. In virtually every instance, ''we get paid a lot less than we bill,'' said Michelle Leone, senior vice president for revenue cycle operations at Continuum Health Partners in New York City.
You may receive a statement that shows your E.R. visit totaled $3,000, for example, but your insurer may agree to pay just $500, which the hospital will accept. Depending on your plan, you owe either a portion of that $500 -- say, 20 percent, after a deductible -- or a co-payment.
People without insurance end up with bills that are much higher than those for covered patients, because the uninsured are charged the hospital's gross rates.
''People don't realize that the prices on the bill are just a starting point,'' said Dr. Jesse M. Pines, an associate professor of emergency medicine and health policy at the Center for Health Care Quality at George Washington University. ''Prices listed on the bill often don't represent what the insurer or the patient will ultimately pay.''
The prices ultimately paid to a hospital can vary considerably for treatment of similar medical problems. ''It's kind of like the airline industry,'' Dr. Pines said. ''It's rare that two people on a plane will have paid the same amount for their seats.''
THE SURPRISES Besides being charged for each service you receive, you will be charged an emergency room fee corresponding to the complexity of treatment that your injury required.
Normally there are five levels of care -- Level 1 is for minor problems like an earache. Level 5 is for more severe problems like a broken bone. (There are higher levels of care reserved for critically ill patients.) Charlie's stitches, for instance, were considered Level 2 care, and the emergency room fee was $488.
When an outside doctor is called in, you will receive a bill directly from the doctor or from your insurance company. The fee will be high, but your insurer probably will pay for most of it, depending on your plan and whether you have met your deductible.
In the end, our final out-of-pocket costs for the entire emergency were less than a third of the original charges. That sounds good, but the bill was still $1,579.
Some insurance plans require that you get preauthorization before receiving emergency care, said Gordon Wheeler, associate executive director for public affairs at the American College of Emergency Physicians.
The new health reform law, though, stipulates that a patient may not be penalized for receiving out-of-network care in the case of an emergency, and that a patient does not need to seek preapproval. The final regulations on this issue are to be released at the end of this month.
Whether you have insurance or not, here are some strategies for avoiding high emergency room bills and steps to take when the amount you owe seems unreasonably high.
DON'T GO THERE If your situation is not dire -- you twisted your ankle or have a persistent sore throat, say, or your child receives a small burn -- call your doctor first and ask for advice.
While this might sound obvious, many people routinely head to the E.R. for nonurgent problems. The top three reasons for emergency room visits in 2007 were for sprains and strains, superficial injuries and contusions, and upper respiratory infections, according to Ryan Mutter, a senior economist at the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
Call your insurer's nurse triage hot line. A trained nurse can help you determine whether a swollen ankle is broken and should be immediately X-rayed, for instance, or whether a burn requires a doctor's attention or just judicious at-home treatment.
Another good alternative to the E.R. is an urgent care center. There are now 8,700 of them across the country. They are typically faster and cheaper than E.R.'s. Urgent care centers specialize in treating mild injuries like sprains, broken toes and fingers and mild cuts. To find a nearby urgent care center, call your insurer or go to iTriagehealth.com.
SCRUTINIZE THE BILL If a charge looks wrong or the amount seems unreasonably high, call the hospital's billing department. Hospitals and insurers process thousands of claims a day, and mistakes do happen. If you received two stitches in your finger, but were billed $700 for Level 3 care, ask why this is so.
''Never be afraid to ask questions about your bill,'' Ms. Leone said.
MAKE AN OFFER If the final bill is beyond your means, it will pay to bargain -- particularly if you do not have insurance.
''The majority of hospitals will discount private paying patients' bills,'' Ms. Leone said. ''Most hospitals are generous in their discounts.''
You can negotiate even when you have insurance. Two years ago Lisa Cullen's father, Thomas Reilly, became very ill and made three trips to the emergency room. Each visit cost about $15,000. Mr. Reilly's insurer contested some of the charges, and the family ultimately was left owing the hospital $11,000.
The hospital was able to reduce the bill to $5,000. ''I was surprised to learn hospitals would rather receive partial payment than no money at all,'' Ms. Cullen, a writer in Leonia, N.J., said. Often you can work out a payment plan with the hospital whereby you pay your bill in installments rather than all at once.
Negotiate with doctors, too, over their individual bills.
ACT QUICKLY Unpaid hospital bills are usually forwarded to collection agencies that report uncollectible accounts to credit agencies. When faced with exorbitant bills, don't hesitate to contact the hospital's billing department and start a dialogue.
''By the time your bill lands at the collection agency, your credit score will have taken a serious hit,'' Dr. Pines warned, ''and it might be hard to borrow money in the future.'' If that happens, a trip to the emergency room will feel like the beginning, not the end, of your troubles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Never be afraid to ask questions about your bill,'' said Michelle Leone of Continuum Health Partners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); FACIAL INJURIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (76%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (76%); MEDICARE (73%); MEDICAID (71%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



141 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Yankee Doodle Daffy

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Connecticut used to be the kind of place where you could predict election results by betting on the least-exciting outcome possible. But no more.
Tuesday is Primary Day in Connecticut. Here are some of the big issues:
If someone employs a large number of people to spend their lives hitting each other over the head with chairs and the occasional sledgehammer, should we hold it against her if she doesn't provide health insurance? 
If an unemployed millworker is asked to describe her multimillionaire former boss, do you think she'd be more negative if the interviewer plied her with a sandwich?
What is it about home improvements that politicians find so irresistible?
''Ned Lamont sent a film crew to my house four weeks ago. Just let that sink in,'' said Dan Malloy, the former Stamford mayor, bitterly in a recent radio interview. He and Lamont are locked in a fierce battle for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination. Taking pictures of somebody's house doesn't seem like all that terrible a crime. In fact, since Malloy is one of the very few people running for office this year who doesn't live in a castle, you'd think he'd be pleased.
However, Malloy's residence was once refurbished by some contractors who also did work for the city. Although he was cleared of any conflict, this sort of thing is a tender subject in Connecticut. Both a recent Republican governor and a current Democratic mayor have been convicted of taking freebies in the form of home improvements.
And remember the fall of Senator Ted Stevens in Alaska? Bernie Kerik, the New York City police chief? American politics is apparently cursed by the fatal allure of free cabinetry.
Almost every strange trend in national politics is on display in Connecticut this year, including the multiplication of superrich candidates. Lamont owns a cable TV company. The leading Republican gubernatorial contender, Tom Foley, and Linda McMahon, the Senate hopeful, have prior experience in state politics that's mainly limited to giving other Republicans money.
Given their lack of political records, opponents have been going after their businesses. McMahon is hit with questions about the way she ran the family's World Wrestling Entertainment, which employs more than 100 wrestlers who bang each other up in rings around the world, without the benefit of a company health plan. (McMahon claims the wrestlers do get seminars on shopping for insurance, and I think I speak for us all in saying that that is not the same thing.)
Her major Republican opponent, Rob Simmons, a former congressman, suspended his campaign after McMahon won the nod at the Republican convention by promising to finance her own campaign. Simmons had about $900,000 at the time, which was about the McMahon budget for coffee creamer.
He stayed home sulking until a couple of weeks ago when he paid for a quickie TV ad with the central theme of: ''I'm Rob Simmons, I'm still on the ballot.''
Doesn't this seem sort of passive-aggressive? You kind of want your candidate to be a fighter, but Simmons appeared to expect the voters to do all the work. Hey, Republicans, I'm here. Come and get me if you want me.
''Passive-aggressive is still aggressive,'' Simmons said cheerfully in a phone interview. He recently emerged from his burrow of solitude and is doing interviews about the less-appetizing side of the W.W.E., the evils of big money in politics and engaging in what the McMahonites called ''erratic behavior, bad judgment, acrimony, reckless and misleading exaggerations.''
Well, a woman whose claim to fame is having built a professional wrestling empire should certainly know erratic behavior and acrimony when she sees them.
Foley, the gubernatorial candidate, runs a private investment group that once owned a Georgia textile mill that later went bankrupt and closed. Frankly, even if the guy has a 100-foot yacht, it isn't fair to blame him for the collapse of the American textile industry. Although the yacht does make it more tempting.
One of his opponents has been running ads of elderly former factory workers standing in front of their ruined place of work and talking about Foley while mournful music plays in the background. ''I would be afraid he would do the same thing to Connecticut he did to the Bibb mill,'' says one sweet little old lady.
The Foley folks, outraged, suggested that the admakers had coerced or bribed the former workers. The candidate himself charged during a debate that they had all been ''treated to a sumptuous lunch.''
Do you really think that out-of-work millhands living out their days in their decrepit town would require culinary incentives to speak critically of a rich investor whose company paid itself $4 million a year for managing their doomed factory? Really, it's like defending your country or doing chores for a sick neighbor. There are some things you volunteer for.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (79%); TED STEVENS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



142 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Dealers Find Barriers to Re-entry

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
After a year of fighting Chrysler's decision to cast aside his dealership, Jim Bickford expected to be back running Westminster Dodge, the only Chrysler franchise in Boston.
An arbitrator last month declared the dealership ''a proven performer, with an experienced, enthusiastic and competent management team, which has earned the right to continue.''
But Mr. Bickford is still not sure whether he will be able to return to selling new cars and trucks. Chrysler is offering to bring Westminster Dodge back aboard only if it meets a list of restrictions, undertakes immediate renovations -- and if no nearby dealer objects.
''We won our case, let's move on,'' said Mr. Bickford, whose father began working at the dealership more than 50 years ago and bought it in 1977. 
''I don't understand why they're playing such hardball. I really want to just be reinstated and go back to the way things were.''
Dozens of Chrysler dealers who have won arbitration rulings against the carmaker are back in the hands of the same people who wanted them gone in the first place. And many of the dealers say Chrysler is not only refusing to extend a welcoming hand, but is imposing requirements more rigorous than many existing dealers must follow.
Chrysler says it is complying with the law passed in December by Congress that set up the arbitration process. A spokesman, Mike Palese, said the company could subject former dealers to the same terms imposed on first-time applicants because Chrysler was a new company after emerging last year from government-aided bankruptcy.
''There are expectations by these dealers that they should get what they had, but that is not what the law stipulates,'' Mr. Palese said. ''We're just trying to follow the law and also account for our business needs. We have a responsibility to the owners and to the U.S. taxpayers to create a viable company.''
In addition to the 32 dealers who have won in arbitration, out of 789 cut over all, Chrysler in March offered 50 former dealers in rural areas the opportunity to come back. Twenty-one of them have accepted the offer, Mr. Palese said.
Mr. Palese said some of the dealers who had won in arbitration also accepted Chrysler's terms, but he declined to say how many. He said Chrysler was in talks with many of the dealers and was ''very open to having a substantive discussion'' if a dealer could present a ''compelling reason'' to negotiate the terms being offered.
Among the terms many returning dealers consider most unreasonable are requirements that their showroom be enlarged and updated to meet Chrysler's standards for selling all four brands, even if they sold only one or two, and a provision that lets Chrysler install a competing dealer nearby if it wishes.
A big question is why dealers would fight so hard to restore ties with a company that publicly tossed them aside and whose prospects remain uncertain. Chrysler's retail sales, which exclude bulk deliveries to businesses and governments, are down more than 25 percent since its bankruptcy, while other carmakers have increased retail sales.
In fact, some dealers wanted nothing more to do with Chrysler and instead sought compensation for losing their franchise.
Of the 418 former dealers who filed for arbitration against Chrysler, 150 settled privately, Mr. Palese said. The agreements are confidential, but people with direct knowledge of the terms said settlements averaged about $500,000.
Mr. Palese said 130 cases had been withdrawn or dismissed, and 108 had gone through the full arbitration process, with Chrysler prevailing in 76.
Some of the dealers who challenged their termination said they had devoted their entire careers to selling Chrysler vehicles and remained loyal to the company. For others, it was largely about trying to get back what they thought was rightfully theirs, as well as a feeling of obligation toward their employees, some of whom were laid off.
Pat Fitzgibbon, who won a ruling to regain his Dodge franchise in South Holland, Ill., a Chicago suburb, said he saw great potential for Chrysler as it focused on developing improved models.
''Down the road they're going to have some excellent products,'' said Mr. Fitzgibbon, who is in talks with Chrysler but has yet to accept the company's reinstatement terms. ''Hopefully in three years they're going to really surprise the industry.''
Mr. Fitzgibbon said he expected that rebuilding his customer base would require a ''monumental'' effort, just as fighting the company's decision to get rid of his dealership did.
''I probably spent a little bit of the boys' inheritance,'' he said. ''We all suffered, but we got through it.''
As the dealers struggle to undo their terminations, a government audit released in July questioned whether such a broad, rapid cutback was even necessary. The report, by the special inspector general of the Troubled Asset Relief Program at the Treasury Department, said the Chrysler closures and the 2,064 closures at General Motors might not have contributed to making either company more viable, and possibly hurt the economy more than they helped.
Chrysler disagreed. Mr. Palese said Chrysler remained confident that its ''smaller, better-focused, more optimized dealer network'' would lead to higher sales. Chrysler's sales in the United States during the last 12 months declined 7 percent, while overall industry sales were up 8 percent.
Jack Fitzgerald, who lost five G.M. dealerships and five Chrysler dealerships last year, said Chrysler had not learned the G.M. lesson: that fewer dealers means fewer sales. In March, G.M. offered reinstatement to 702 dealers, and its dealers have consistently praised the automaker as handling the process more humanely than Chrysler.
This week, G.M. said it settled with 408 dealers, and only 62 of the 1,176 dealers who filed for arbitration actually completed the process. It did not say how many prevailed. G.M. said it would have about 4,500 dealers going forward, roughly 400 more than it had planned during bankruptcy and 1,500 fewer than it did a year ago.
''General Motors is putting back dealers as quick as they can,'' Mr. Fitzgerald said. G.M. has voluntarily restored all five of Mr. Fitzgerald's franchises; in arbitration with Chrysler he won one case in Florida and lost four in Maryland.
Mr. Fitzgerald received Chrysler's list of conditions, known as a letter of intent, for the Florida dealership in early June, but he is still trying to work out a deal.
''It's literally impossible to come back the way Chrysler has set this up,'' Mr. Fitzgerald said. ''I've seen dozens of letters of intent. I've never seen anything remotely like this.''
Mr. Palese said Chrysler sent Mr. Fitzgerald and the other winning dealers its ''usual and customary'' letter of intent, as required by the law setting up the arbitration process. He said some of the requirements in the letters were related to state franchise laws, which Chrysler believes the arbitrators' rulings cannot supersede.
Last week, Chrysler filed a lawsuit asking a federal judge to rule on whether Michigan's franchise laws applied in the cases of two former dealers in the Detroit area who had won in arbitration.
''Chrysler's basically treating the dealers as if they're new and they've never heard of them,'' Leonard A. Bellavia, a lawyer who has represented many dealers during the arbitration process. ''The intent behind reinstatement is you get to put on the same shoes before you were rejected.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joe Lawlor, the sales manager at Westminster Dodge in Boston, which won its arbitration case against Chrysler. (B1)
 ''I really want to just be reinstated and go back to the way things were,'' said Jim Bickford, the owner of Westminster Dodge. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (91%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); LEGISLATION (70%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



143 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Antigraft Units, Backed By U.S., Draw Karzai's Ire

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND and DEXTER FILKINS; Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington and Mujib Mashal from Kabul.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan has promised to root out corruption, but after one of his own top aides was arrested by American-supported antigraft units recently, he fired back by investigating the investigators and apparently seeking control over their actions.
He convened a commission ultimately reporting that the anticorruption investigators were violating the human rights of suspects they arrested. Aides to the president also complained that they violated the nation's sovereignty because of the American role in the investigations.
The controversy set up yet another serious divide between American officials and Mr. Karzai at a time when the Obama administration has made combating corruption in the Afghan government a major policy goal. Congress is withholding $4 billion in financing to Afghanistan over a case closely related to the arrest of Mr. Karzai's aide.
At issue are two powerful anticorruption organizations set up in the Ministry of the Interior, initially with the president's approval, known as the Major Crimes Task Force and the Sensitive Investigative Unit. American agencies, including the F.B.I. and the Drug Enforcement Administration, are extensively involved in the units. 
They are self-contained, with their own lawyers, investigators, judges and even detention facilities. The arrangement was meant to insulate them from interference from other government agencies.
The Karzai aide, Mohammed Zia Saleh, head of administration for Afghanistan's National Security Council, was arrested late in July. According to a Western official with knowledge of the case, the arrest came after investigators wiretapped Mr. Saleh soliciting bribes from the New Ansari Exchange, a money exchange operation, to impede an investigation into the company's role in exporting large amounts of cash from the country.
Congress held up the Afghan financing after The Wall Street Journal reported that about $3 billion had been transferred out of Afghanistan -- a huge amount considering the country's gross national product of only $13.5 billion, according to The Journal account. The New Ansari Exchange was involved in many of those money transfers, and the organization was raided by the American-backed investigators, who seized many of its records.
As recently as Thursday, the United States special inspector general for Afghanistan reconstruction, Arnold Fields, in an audit focused on corruption, said that American agencies were still investigating where those money transfers were coming from. ''Corruption and/or fraud may or may not be the case,'' he said. ''However, if there were systems in place to address corruption issues, there would be more confidence in the Afghan government, less corruption and less immediate suspicion of corruption.''
In addition, Mr. Fields noted, the United States is planning to begin disbursing up to half of its planned $20 billion in aid to Afghanistan through the Afghan government and its agencies, rather than directly to contractors as it does now. That would require confidence in Afghanistan's anticorruption efforts.
Another Western official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the dispute, said there was no doubt that the presidential commission's investigation of the two anticorruption organizations was prompted by Mr. Saleh's arrest. Two delegations were sent to them from Mr. Karzai to complain about it, he said.
''There was a big spat,'' he said.
Mr. Saleh was later released on the order of the attorney general's office.
The commission that Mr. Karzai appointed to investigate the anticorruption agencies held a news conference on Thursday to report its findings. Attorney General Mohammed Ishaq Alko and Mohammed Yassin Usmani, head of the country's high office of oversight and anticorruption, with other officials, insisted that their investigation was only coincidental to Mr. Saleh's arrest.
They said they investigated conditions at the Qasaba Detention Center in Kabul, where the Major Crimes Task Force has 52 detainees on drug trafficking and corruption charges, and raised concerns about whether conditions there were humanitarian and Islamic. They also looked into the organizations' investigative practices.
The commission members said they were presenting their findings to Mr. Karzai, who would review whether legislation was needed to better control the two organizations' activities.
A subsequent statement from the president's office on Thursday night said concerns had been raised about whether the two organizations were in accord with Afghanistan's Constitution, its ''national sovereignty'' and humanitarian principles. Mr. Karzai will issue a new decree governing the two organizations, the statement said, and until then the commission will be in charge of overseeing them.
A Western diplomat, who declined to be further identified as a matter of policy, said the investigative agencies were ''basing their work on the highest standards of respect for human rights, civil liberties and the law.''
American officials have indicated concern about efforts to undercut the organizations, but said they remained hopeful that Mr. Karzai would decide not to take any action to hinder them. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton called Mr. Karzai this week to talk about the matter.
Tommy Vietor, a White House spokesman, said, ''We are concerned about any attempt which could undermine the independence and authorities of Afghanistan's nascent anti-corruption bodies such as the Major Crimes Task Force.''
Shutting down the anticorruption units could be the biggest point of contention between the two countries since complaints about fraud in Mr. Karzai's re-election last year. Caitlin Hayden, spokeswoman for the American Embassy, recalled Mr. Karzai's commitments at a conference here in July that included ''pledges to undertake all necessary measures to increase transparency and tackle corruption.''
Waheed Omar, Mr. Karzai's spokesman, said Mr. Karzai had ordered his commission to review every case of the Major Crimes Task Force. ''We are not saying we will dismantle the M.C.T.F.,'' Mr. Omar said. ''The president wants to bring it under the existing structures of law and order.''
Another senior Afghan official, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the issue, said a major concern of the president was the role of foreigners in running the Major Crimes Task Force.
''Our assessments show that the M.C.T.F. purports to be an Afghan institution, but is run by others,'' the official said, referring to Americans. The official also said wiretaps were made without judicial review, a charge that American officials denied.
Another Afghan official maintained that Mr. Karzai's concern was not because of Mr. Saleh's arrest, but because he felt too much power had been concentrated in the units. The official said the president had not realized they would oversee every step of the investigative and judicial process, but thought of them as investigative entities that would hand their findings to existing agencies for prosecution.
Top officials of Mr. Karzai's administration were actively involved, however, when the groups were initially established, and their roles were publicized.
Afghans Tied to Fake Attack
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -- The Afghan authorities have determined that Afghan guards staged a fake rocket attack in June on the site where a South Korean military base was under construction, in an apparent ruse to get more danger pay, South Korean officials said Friday.
There were no casualties or damage from the attack in the northern Afghan province of Parwan, a Foreign Ministry official said. Some guards fired rocket-propelled grenades at the site and others opened fire, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (92%); ARRESTS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); BRIBERY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WIRETAPPING (72%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (70%); LAWYERS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



144 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Calls for Repeal of All the Bush Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
It was not enough, it seems, for Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman and a self-described lifelong Republican libertarian, to call for stringent government regulation of giant banks, as he did a few months ago.
Now Mr. Greenspan is wading into the most fierce economic policy debate in Washington -- what to do with the tax cuts adopted, in large part because of his implicit backing, under President George W. Bush -- with a position not only contrary to Republican orthodoxy, but decidedly to the left of President Obama.
Rather than keeping tax rates steady for all but the wealthiest Americans, as the White House wants, Mr. Greenspan is calling for the complete repeal of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, brushing aside the arguments of Republicans and even a few Democrats that doing so could threaten the already shaky economic recovery.
''I'm in favor of tax cuts, but not with borrowed money,'' Mr. Greenspan, 84, said Friday in a telephone interview. ''Our choices right now are not between good and better; they're between bad and worse. The problem we now face is the most extraordinary financial crisis that I have ever seen or read about.'' 
Mr. Greenspan, who led the Fed for 18 years until he retired in 2006, warns that without drastic action to increase federal revenue and reduce the long-term growth in health care costs, bond investors could make a run on Treasury securities, driving up the nation's borrowing costs and leading to another global economic crisis. This is not the first time Mr. Greenspan has urged fiscal restraint; he warned in 2008 that the country could not afford the tax cuts proposed by Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate. But his sweeping call for rescinding the Bush tax cuts, which he has articulated in a recent appearance on ''Meet the Press'' and an interview with The Financial Times, among other settings, has rankled former colleagues.
''Such a large tax increase in the middle of a period of sluggish economic growth would be a very bad idea,'' said R. Glenn Hubbard, who as chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers from 2001 to 2003 was an architect of the tax cuts.
Mr. Hubbard, who teaches at Columbia Business School, said a debate over the proper size of government was needed, but would not occur until the 2010 or 2012 elections. ''Calls for repealing the tax cuts are more about politics than economics,'' he added.
Even liberal economists who concur with the need for higher taxes have not been eager to embrace Mr. Greenspan. ''His concern about the current deficit seems to ignore the state of the economy,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a left-leaning organization. ''It is hard not to believe that politics is playing some role in his positions.''
While Mr. Greenspan did not endorse a specific approach, his broad support for the tax cuts nearly a decade ago were pivotal in securing one of the Bush administration's top domestic policy goals and in providing political cover for members of Congress.
Now, in response to accusations of political expediency, Mr. Greenspan says his approach has been consistent: supporting tax cuts when surpluses loomed, and endorsing revenue increases now that deficits are the leading worry. He also says his earlier endorsement of tax cuts was made with important caveats that were later ignored by policy makers and the public.
To begin with, he says he believed the tax cuts in 2001 were primarily needed to avoid the economic distortions caused by ''surpluses as far as the eye could see,'' as many economists at the time projected.
The dot-com boom in the late '90s led to a surge in tax revenue, less from capital-gains taxes than from the conversions of stock-option grants. While the temporary nature of those revenue increases was perceived, Mr. Greenspan says, the combination of soaring tax receipts and long-term productivity gains led economists at the Fed, at the Office of Management and Budget and at the Congressional Budget Office to believe that the surpluses were very real.
That, in turn, caused the central bank to worry that one of its primary levers for the conduct of monetary policy -- the purchase and sale of Treasury securities -- would no longer be available.
''I was against deficits, but I was also equally against surpluses,'' Mr. Greenspan said.
Mr. Greenspan also emphasizes that the tax cuts should have adhered to so-called pay-go rules, which require that tax cuts or new spending should not add to the federal deficit.
Pay-go rules were adopted as part of the 1990 budget deal between President George Bush and the Democratic-controlled Congress, but were scrapped in 2002, when his son, George W. Bush, was president.
''Unfortunately, the surplus disabled pay-go because pay-go implied the existence of a deficit,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''When the deficit disappeared, the concept of pay-go became meaningless.''
While Mr. Greenspan's reputation has been tarnished -- given the Fed's failures to pop the real estate bubble and to rein in subprime mortgage lending -- his perspective, born of decades of data-crunching, has made him a figure revered by many in the markets. His opinion still carries considerable weight and his views on the tax cuts will reverberate in the debate next month in Congress.
''Unlike in World War II, when we knew that military spending and deficits would fall sharply, our current understanding of the future is extremely limited,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''There's an especially high level of uncertainty in forecasting Medicare.''
He said the country's fiscal problems could not be solved by higher taxes alone. ''We are going to have to confront a major surge in medical entitlement spending. Irrespective of what you say should be done on the tax side, you still have to cut some benefits on the expenditure side.''
Mr. Greenspan, who is known for his political skills and his connections in both parties, bemoaned the political gridlock in the capital.
''We have known that the tax cuts were going to expire at the end of 2010 for nearly a decade but nobody did anything to address the issue,'' he said.
Asked whether higher taxes in 2011 could choke off the nascent recovery, Mr. Greenspan replied: ''It is risky, but the choice of not doing it is far riskier. It is the difference between bad and worse, but in neither case do I think the evidence suggests that it would be the tipping point for the economy.''
Mr. Greenspan added that the relationship between taxation and growth was still not well understood. ''I don't think anybody can know exactly what the impact of these taxes is on G.D.P.,'' he said, referring to gross domestic product, the broadest measure of output. ''We put them through econometric models that have a very poor record forecasting recession. Conclusions based on such models must be suspect.''
At the Group of 20 meeting in Toronto in June, leaders of the world's biggest economies agreed to halve their governments' deficits by 2013. But Mr. Greenspan noted that even after debt-stricken Greece enacted emergency austerity measures, the markets remained skeptical.
''I thought that meeting was quite good, and very effective and important,'' he said. ''But it's one thing to have a fiscal projection and quite another to have the markets believe it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, supported the Bush tax cuts originally but with warnings that he said were ignored. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BONDS (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (64%); BAKER CO INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (60%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



145 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Nation Lost 131,000 Jobs As Governments Cut Back

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH; Peter Baker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With the departure of thousands of temporary Census workers and thousands more let go by state and local governments, businesses could not rescue the American labor market in July.
Over all, the nation lost 131,000 jobs last month, according to the Department of Labor, which also said that June was far weaker than previously indicated.
Private employers added 71,000 jobs last month, but those figures were overtaken by the 143,000 cut as the Census wound down. It is also about half the number that economists say is needed to simply accommodate population growth, so the tepid job increases cannot begin to plug the hole created by the loss of more than eight million jobs during the recession. The unemployment rate, in fact, remained stuck at 9.5 percent in July.
''The private sector is still hobbled,'' said Robert A. Dye, senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh, ''and certainly is not nearly strong enough to overcome the drain on the government side.'' 
Government figures released last week confirmed that the American economy slowed in the spring, and the latest jobs numbers suggested that the weakness continued into the early summer. With economists and politicians fervently arguing over whether the economy is poised for liftoff or stalled on the runway, Friday's jobs report did little to end the debate.
Some economists are talking about the risk of a ''double dip'' recession, and the political stakes for the Obama administration are rising as the midterm elections tick closer.
In remarks made while visiting Gelberg Signs, a small business in Washington, President Obama acknowledged the uneven pace of the economic revival.
''The road to recovery doesn't follow a straight line,'' he said. ''Some sectors bounce back faster than others. So what we need to do is push forward. We can't go backwards.''
Investors greeted Friday's lackluster report by buying Treasuries, a haven in uncertain times, and driving the yield on the two-year note to a record low. Investors appear to expect the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates low, perhaps for years, as unemployment remains stubbornly high. Stocks sold off in the morning, but rallied a bit in the afternoon, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down about 0.4 percent for the day.
Many economists were surprised by the scale of layoffs by state and local governments, which cut 48,000 jobs in July. In the last three months, they have shed 102,000 jobs. The Senate voted earlier this week to approve a $26 billion package of aid to states and school districts, and the House is expected to vote on the measure on Tuesday. Economists pointed out that even if the bill passed, it would only stem additional layoffs, not induce hiring.
Government jobs are usually viewed as more stable than those in business, but severe budget shortfalls have hobbled state and local agencies.
''It just seems really drastic to me,'' said Michael Hidalgo, 33, who was let go at the end of July from the San Jose Fire Department. ''Even though I knew there was a possibility, I didn't know that all the cuts would go through.''
Although the nation's unemployment rate did not worsen, that was in part because people continued to leave the labor force, which means they simply stopped looking for work during the month.
The Labor Department greatly revised its headline number for June, widening the job loss figure for that month to 221,000 jobs, from 125,000. Private sector hiring in June, originally reported at 83,000, was lowered to 31,000.
Friday's jobs report renewed pressure on lawmakers to consider the next steps they might take to bolster the economy. Along with the consideration of aid to states, a fierce discussion is still to come about whether to let the tax cuts enacted under President George W. Bush expire at the end of the year.
Recent indicators focusing on consumer confidence, retail sales and housing appear to put the economy in a holding pattern.
Earlier this week, a crucial index of manufacturing showed that growth had slippedslightly in July and chain stores reported anemic increases in sales. On the more positive side, auto sales increased 5.1 percent in July compared with a year earlier.
With corporate earnings rising partly on the back of cost cutting, employers are reluctant to give up profits. ''So while corporate earnings were spectacular,'' said Allen Sinai, chief global economist at Decision Economics, ''the job market just stinks.''
July's labor report did admit a few shafts of light. The average number of hours worked in private sector jobs ticked up to 33.5 a week from 33.4 in June, suggesting that employers were squeezing more from employees. That usually presages hiring.
And average hourly earnings by workers on private payrolls edged up slightly to $22.59 in July, reflecting a 1.8 percent increase for the previous 12 months.
Manufacturing, which has been a relative bright spot in hiring the last few months, added 36,000 jobs in July. Automakers helped by keeping plants open that usually close during the month.
The number of people out of work for 27 weeks or more dipped slightly to 6.6 million, from 6.8 million, while the median duration of unemployment eased to 22.2 weeks in July, from 25.5 weeks in June.
The government's broadest definition of the unemployment rate, incorporating people who want jobs but did not search during the month, was unchanged at 16.5 percent.
Some economists say a slow recovery is inevitable, given the damage done by the financial crisis. Consumers, who account for about two-thirds of economic activity, have been reluctant to spend while still paying off debts racked up during the boom. Consumer credit shrank in June, the government reported on Friday, as it has for nearly two years.
''We forget that when you go from trying to move a rock with a lever and trying to move it with your bare hands, you might eventually be able to move it with your bare hands, but you're going to move it a lot more slowly and a shorter distance,'' said Jerry Webman, chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds. ''That's the position we are in the American economy: our lever broke.''
Even optimists were discouraged by Friday's report. ''No question about it, the three-month average of adding 50,000 jobs is disappointing versus almost anybody's expectations,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of Mount Lucas Management, who has said that the economy is on track for sustained recovery. ''And certainly it's less than half of what you need to keep things stable.''
A prominent pessimist, Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist for Goldman Sachs, lowered his forecast of economic growth for 2011 to 1.9 percent, from 2.5 percent.
''This economy is absolutely appalling,'' said Mary Moore, 39, who has been applying for jobs as an administrative assistant in Norfolk, Va., since she lost her job at a publishing company in May 2009. Ms. Moore, who can collect unemployment benefits for a few more months, is struggling to pay her $525-a-month rent and health care insurance, which recently nearly tripled to $379 a month.
''As an American I did not believe we would see times such as this,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: CHANGE IN JOBS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A1)
The Labor Picture in July: Unemployment rate
DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
Employment
SHARE OF POPULATION
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT BY EDUCATION LEVEL
TYPE OF WORK
 AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENSUS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (85%); STOCK INDEXES (85%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); POLITICS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); APPROVALS (62%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



146 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: A Premier Race, A Struggling Racetrack

BYLINE: By RYAN GOLDBERG

 BODY:
The first horse that the trainer Greg Peck entered in the Hambletonian also became the fastest in the race's 85-year history. Last year, Peck's Muscle Hill set a record for the one-mile distance, and his winning margin of six lengths was a fraction short of the record. It was a superb performance in what is known as the Kentucky Derby of harness racing.
On Saturday, the Hambletonian will be held at the Meadowlands Racetrack in East Rutherford, N.J., for the 30th consecutive year. Peck returns with a top contender in Holiday Road. He said he wants to win even more than last year, in large part because this edition may be the most important in track history.
''You wonder,'' Peck said after a meeting of the standardbred industry at the Meadowlands last Thursday, ''is it going to be here next year?'' 
These are extraordinary times for harness racing in New Jersey. The long-awaited report on gambling in New Jersey, commissioned in February by Gov. Chris Christie and released two weeks ago, recommended that the state quit operating the Meadowlands and rejected the idea of having slot machines there.
Jon F. Hanson and Robert E. Mulcahy III, once the chairman and chief executive, respectively, of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, led the commission in producing the report. It offers more questions than answers, not only for state-run thoroughbred and harness racing, but also for Atlantic City, the uncompleted Xanadu entertainment project at the Meadowlands and the sports authority itself.
The report called into question the future of harness racing in the state and, by extension, its most important race.
''It's obviously a situation that is a concern,'' Tom Charters, the executive director of the Hambletonian Society, which manages the race, said in an interview last week. ''But we have a two-year contract going forward and I fully expect it to be honored.''
Charters said he would like to see the Hambletonian remain at the Meadowlands, and he anticipates the contract will be extended past 2012. He said he has not talked to other tracks about moving the race.
The Hambletonian has become strongly identified with the Meadowlands, its home since 1981, but it was previously held for more than two decades in both DuQuoin, Ill., and Goshen, N.Y. The race is the property of the Hambletonian Society, a nonprofit organization created in 1925 to sponsor the race.
Restricted to 3-year-old trotters (the other gait in harness racing is pacers), the Hambletonian has been the sport's richest race since its inaugural running in 1926 at the New York State Fair in Syracuse. It has been a mainstay on national television since relocating to the Meadowlands. As with the Kentucky Derby, its winners are christened million-dollar stallion prospects.
Track officials expect a crowd of 30,000 on Saturday, and in recent years approximately $8 million has been wagered on Hambletonian Day. In 2009, nearly a quarter of those bets came from simulcasts in France and Scandinavia, where trotting is extremely popular.
''It's like winning the Super Bowl in football, the Stanley Cup in hockey,'' said Jimmy Takter, the Swedish-born trainer who won the 1997 Hambletonian with Malabar Man. ''It's the race that has the biggest impact in the world in harness racing.''
When the Meadowlands opened in 1976, Gov. Brendan Byrne sought to bring the Hambletonian there. Alongside the prestigious race, the Meadowlands became the premier site for harness racing. With its one-mile oval, it changed a sport where half-mile tracks were standard. Thoroughbreds began racing at the Meadowlands that fall, but Monmouth Park, further south in Oceanport and its predecessor on the racing calendar, has always been the more popular home for that breed.
But the quality of the harness meet at the Meadowlands has gradually declined, to the point where its supremacy finds challengers and the state expects significant reform. Once a big moneymaker, the Meadowlands lost nearly $10 million over all last year.
The reasons are many and in some cases outside the control of those in the sport: the drop in popularity of harness racing, greater competition from other forms of gambling, the rise of racetracks with casinos (known as ''racinos'') like Yonkers and Pennsylvania's Chester, and the state's slow introduction of off-track betting parlors.
In 1977, the Meadowlands drew an average attendance of 17,606 over 181 dates. Last year, it drew an average of 2,897 over 147 dates. The fact that people can now bet over both the Internet and the telephone is one significant reason for the decline.
But the quiet inside the large facility on race night speaks loudly. The Meadowlands actually draws more fans than other standardbred sites, where slot machines inflate purses but push aside much of the interest in the horses on the track.
This year, the Meadowlands is on pace to meet its total from last year of $2.4 million in nightly handle, approximately double its closest standardbred competitors, but down from its high of $3.74 million in 2000.
The standardbred industry in the state looks more vulnerable than the thoroughbred one. The Hanson report said the largest part of the sports authority's losses come from harness racing. The report looked favorably on Monmouth Park's experiment with a shortened summer meet; its 50 days and $50 million in purses has attracted better horses and higher attendance and handle. On the other hand, the report calls harness racing a ''regional niche sport.''
The standardbred industry interpreted the report as an indication that Christie wants to shut it down.
''I never expected that it would be as bad as it is,'' Thomas Luchento, the president of the Standardbred Owners and Breeders Association of New Jersey, said of the report.
Luchento said the standardbred industry would try to produce a plan that would suit Christie, which means a way for it to operate without state subsidies. He said that one idea was a shortened meet like Monmouth's of 100 days and $400,000 in daily purses.
However, Luchento expressed unhappiness at what he perceived as the tone and nature of the report. He said he believed ''it was a stacked deck from the beginning'' because the commission did not include any members of the horse industry.
''It was the horsemen that got the blame for this for not having a good business model, when we had nothing to do with it,'' Luchento said. ''The legislators in the state would come in here, take the money, build other projects.''
The report offers four potential options for harness racing, including moving a shorter meet to Monmouth Park; leasing the Meadowlands to the standardbred industry for $1 a year for the next three years, with the industry paying to maintain the facility; converting a commercial farm into a new track; and altogether eliminating the sport. Luchento said he would find it difficult to say yes to almost any of them.
According to a Rutgers University study from 2007, horse racing and related operations generate more than $780 million in economic activity each year. More than half of the industry's 13,000 jobs are tied to racetracks, breeding and training facilities. Horse farms represent more than a fifth of the state's 790,000 acres, and standardbreds make up two-thirds of the 12,500 racehorses on that land. Luchento said that the industry's economic impact at a time of high unemployment and budget deficits should not be ignored. But Mulcahy said the state's budget deficit was the reason horse racing must sustain itself.
The Hanson report called for a master plan in six months. The Hambletonian starts the clock.
''The state has to get out of the business,'' Mulcahy said. ''That's really the answer. We can no longer subsidize any of these operations. We have to put them into a position where we can privatize them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Meadowlands Racetrack, the home of the Hambletonian since 1981, will host the race, harness racing's richest, on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Greg Peck, who won last year's Hambletonian with Muscle Hill, has a strong contender this year in Holiday Road. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); RELOCATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (51%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



147 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Steps That We Can Take to Lower the Deficit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''What They're Not Telling You'' (editorial, Aug. 1) implies that there are only two ways to lower the federal deficit -- raise taxes and cut government programs. But what about reducing problems that cost so much to fix, like illness, crime, unemployment and even some wars? 
To note but one statistic in just one area, cutting the school dropout rate in half would add tens of billions of dollars annually to federal revenues (through increased income taxes and lowered health and welfare costs). Effective and cost-saving programs have been identified in areas like school enrollment maintenance, job training, drug dependency rehabilitation, criminal rehabilitation, diabetes prevention, pollution reduction and ''preventive diplomacy/defense.''
And is it not better for individuals and society to prevent rather than treat diseases, to prevent crimes, to prevent wars? Additionally, some government programs can be cut in the future because of reduced needs, not just to save money. Prevention can be a part -- maybe a significant one -- of a long-term solution to federal deficit concerns.
Neil Wollman Abigail Fuller Waltham, Mass., Aug. 1, 2010
Mr. Wollman is a senior fellow at the Bentley Alliance for Ethics and Social Responsibility, Bentley University. Ms. Fuller is an associate professor of sociology at Manchester College.
To the Editor:
Medicare spending could be cut, conservatively, by 40 percent without any harm to recipients, doctors, medical professionals or hospitals. Dr. Donald Berwick, the new head of Medicare, and a group of outstanding physicians have already cut costs at numerous hospitals all over the nation while improving outcomes by eliminating waste, similar to the way Southwest Airlines and Japanese automakers revolutionized their industries by eliminating waste and improving quality. Some estimate that about 30 percent of medical costs could be saved this way.
Conservatively, an additional 10 percent of Medicare savings could be produced by establishing price controls on medications, the elimination of physician ownership of labs and imaging facilities, and mandating use of electronic records to help avoid the repetition of tests and the administration of improper or incompatible medications.
With these steps, we can improve quality, lower costs, improve the economy and better the lives of all Americans, especially the less fortunate.
Jerry Frankel Houston, Aug. 1, 2010
The writer is an assistant professor of urology at the University of Texas at Houston.
To the Editor:
You conclude: ''There is no way to fix the nation's fiscal crisis without higher taxes now and in the future -- and cuts in entitlement programs down the road.''
Cuts in entitlement programs should begin now and not down the road. What is required is means testing on Social Security and Medicare. That combined with a value-added tax would go a long way toward reducing our unmanageable deficit beginning in 2011.
Also, all the Bush tax cuts should be allowed to expire, except for the lowest tax brackets.
We can't afford to wait for the economy to recover before getting serious about fiscal responsibility. Now is the time for action -- not somewhere down the road, which all too often means not doing anything.
Paul Schoenbaum Williamsburg, Va., Aug. 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); VALUE ADDED TAX (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); CRIME PREVENTION (76%); WRITERS (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); DRUG PRICES (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); DIABETES (69%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); ETHICS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (85%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (85%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



148 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: A Bad Movie Is Getting a Sequel

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
Isiah Thomas is back with the Knicks, but what does it mean?
It means that whatever one thinks of Thomas and the work he did as the Knicks' chief executive and coach, he remains the most dynamic little man in N.B.A. history, the most credentialed Knicks employee since Pat Riley.
It means that in the ascendant sports culture of super-elite travel teams and powerhouse high school programs seeking mythical national championships, resumes do matter. 
Who are you? the young ones want to know of the men who will spoil them in return for their dribbling services. Where have you been? What have you won?
If the summer of N.B.A. free agency taught us anything, it is that the era of the autocratic franchise player made famous by Michael Jordan and his subordinate Jordanaires has ended. In its place has emerged a merger mentality, a willingness to share control of the kingdom, powerfully illustrated when LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh heeled in Miami last month at the bejeweled hand of Riley.
Riley's championship rings -- five as a head coach, one as an assistant and another as a player -- really did matter.
By comparison, the Knicks went to Cleveland to make their pitch to James, believing New York City star power was enough. But the video starring Tony Soprano -- an overweight Jersey mobster who never dunked in his fictitious life -- did not impress James.
Nor did the Knicks' brass: the big boss, James L. Dolan, known in N.B.A. circles as a clueless meddler who sings the blues; Donnie Walsh, whose Indiana teams made it to the finals all of once; and Mike D'Antoni, who carried a reputation as a fun guy to play for, just never in June.
Deflation set in at Madison Square Garden that bordered on panic. The Knicks had not made an offer or participated in a negotiation as much they had been reject contestants on James's reality television show.
They needed someone with more star cred, with title timber, and they needed him fast. Hence, Thomas was dispatched to Ohio and the locomotive was rolling on track to return him to the Knicks.
He did not land James but he got a meeting with one of James's people, and that apparently was enough. Thomas was quietly on board for the Amar'e Stoudemire chase, thanked publicly for his efforts by Walsh at Stoudemire's introductory news conference and officially returned Friday to the roster of the Garden's gainfully employed.
The news release said Thomas would ''assist the team's senior management in various capacities, including player recruitment'' as a consultant. Of course, Thomas has another recruiting job, as the coach at Florida International -- at least until he can persuade another N.B.A. team to give him the keys to the organization.
''I've always said that if there's a G.M. position that should ever open, that I would be interested in going back to the N.B.A. as a G.M. for the right spot and the right opportunity,'' Thomas told ESPN.com on Friday.
Can he really be a contender to reclaim the job he surrendered to the 69-year-old Walsh? Speculative nonsense, organizational insiders are saying. Thomas is merely back to lend his Hall of Fame credentials, flash his two championship rings, if and when Carmelo Anthony goes the free-agent route next summer and Chris Paul the summer after that. He will try to find more draft sleepers like David Lee and Trevor Ariza, reprising the best work he did in New York.
But Dolan's affection for Thomas seems to have no bounds, despite the sludge that had to be swept under Pennsylvania Station two years ago. And Knicks fans setting their eyes on the ''He's back'' headlines can't help but feel as if they have stepped inside a ''Friday the 13th'' movie or a time capsule back to the days when George Steinbrenner never tired of Billy Martin sequels.
Martin was a behavioral embarrassment, but he did have an estimable track record. Beyond that, a fair number of Yankees fans loved him. In any capacity, nobody will cheer Thomas's return to the Knicks, most of all the female employees in the Garden who haven't forgotten the ugliness of the Anucha Browne Sanders sexual harassment trial, coming up on its three-year anniversary next month.
How can Walsh be happy about this, if only for how ominous it looks? What is Allan Houston, said to be in training for a big job, supposed to think?
For decades, the Knicks have pitted big names against one other, let them at each other in the organizational steel cage -- going way back to Dave DeBusschere and Hubie Brown, Al Bianchi and Rick Pitino, Ernie Grunfeld and Jeff Van Gundy. The big loser was always the team.
It stretches logic to think that Thomas had much to do with landing Stoudemire, who chose the Knicks because they were the only team willing to pay him almost $100 million.
Can he help land Anthony? Maybe he can, but at what collateral cost?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Florida International Coach Isiah Thomas will consult for the Knicks, who fired him two years ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNNE SLADKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); ORGANIZED CRIME (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); JAMES L DOLAN (79%); LEBRON JAMES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (55%); MIAMI, FL, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010



149 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Housing Policy's Third Rail

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WHILE Congress toiled on the financial overhaul last spring, precious little was said about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance companies that collapsed spectacularly two years ago.
Indeed, these wards of the state got just two mentions in the 1,500-page law known as Dodd-Frank: first, when it ordered the Treasury to produce a study on ending the taxpayer-owned status of the companies and, second, in a ''sense of the Congress'' passage stating that efforts to improve the nation's mortgage credit system ''would be incomplete without enactment of meaningful structural reforms'' of Fannie and Freddie.
No kidding. 
With midterm elections near, though, there will be talk aplenty about dealing with the companies precisely because Dodd-Frank didn't address them. Unfortunately, if past is prologue, this talk is likely to be more political than practical.
Fannie and Freddie amplified the housing boom by buying mortgages from lenders, allowing them to originate even more loans. They grew into behemoths because they lobbied aggressively and played the Washington political game to a T. But after both companies bought boatloads of risky mortgages, they required a federal rescue.
The Treasury's study on Fannie, Freddie and housing finance must be delivered to Congress by the end of January 2011. In a speech last week, Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, told a New York audience that resolving the companies isn't ''rocket science.''
But attaining genuine remedies for our housing finance system could actually be harder than rocket science. That's because it would require an honest dialogue about the role the federal government should play in housing. It also requires a candid conversation about whether promoting homeownership through tax policy and other federal efforts remains a good idea, given the economic disaster we've just lived through.
Alas, honest dialogues on third-rail topics like housing have proved to be a bridge too far for many in Washington. So, what we may hear instead about Fannie and Freddie before the elections is a lot of sound and fury signifying a stealthy return to the status quo.
This would be unfortunate, not only because the financial crisis presents a rare opportunity to reassess the supposed benefits of homeownership but also because there was a lot not to like about the way these companies operated and the ways their friends in Congress enabled that behavior.
Outwardly, Fannie and Freddie wrapped themselves in the American flag and the dream of homeownership. But internally, they were relentless in their pursuit of profits from partners in the mortgage boom. One of their biggest and most steadfast collaborators was Countrywide, the subprime lending machine run by Angelo R. Mozilo.
Countrywide was the biggest supplier of loans to Fannie during the mania; in 2004, it sold 26 percent of the loans Fannie bought. Three years later, it was selling 28 percent. What Countrywide got out of the relationship was clear -- a buyer for its dubious loans. Now the taxpayer is on the hook for those losses.
But what was in it for Fannie?
An internal Fannie document from 2004 obtained by The New York Times sheds light on this question. A ''Customer Engagement Plan'' for Countrywide, it shows how assiduously Fannie pursued Mr. Mozilo and 14 of his lieutenants to make sure the company continued to shovel loans its way.
Nine bullet points fall under the heading ''Fannie Mae's Top Strategic Business Objectives With Lender.'' The first: ''Deepen relationship at all levels throughout CHL and Fannie Mae to foster alignment and collaboration between our companies at every opportunity.'' (CHL refers to Countrywide Home Loans.) No. 2: ''Create barriers to exit partnership.'' Next: ''Disciplined Risk/Servicing Management'' and ''Achieve Fannie Mae Profitability Goals.''
(Later in 2004, by the way, the Securities and Exchange Commission found that Fannie had used improper accounting and ordered it to restate its earnings for the previous four years. Some $6.3 billion in profit was wiped out.)
The engagement plan also recommends ways that Fannie executives should mingle with Countrywide's top management, because ''fostering more direct senior level engagements with key influencers throughout their organization will be beneficial in ensuring strategic alignment and building organizational loyalty.''
RECOMMENDATIONS included conferring with Mr. Mozilo at Habitat for Humanity golf tournaments and Mortgage Bankers Association conventions. Franklin D. Raines, then Fannie's C.E.O., and Daniel H. Mudd, then its chief operating officer, were advised to see Mr. Mozilo twice a year. ''We will be successful when Angelo influences the industry or his organization on our behalf,'' the document says. Mr. Raines didn't respond to e-mails requesting comment last Friday; he left Fannie in December 2004.
The memo advised pursuing other Countrywide executives: ''Deep Rapport'' should be the goal with David E. Sambol, the lender's president, but because he did not ''heavily attend outside events'' Fannie executives should ''look for opportunities for meetings'' at Countrywide headquarters.
''We will be successful if we can foster ongoing communication channels that allow us to understand and leverage Sambol's priorities and demonstrate our commitment to making him successful,'' the memo stated. Mr. Sambol and Mr. Mozilo could not be reached for comment.
For his part, Mr. Mudd, now the chief executive of the Fortress Investment Group, said Fannie's courting of Countrywide was not unusual. ''We tried to build a program that was based on having multiple strong relationships with our main customers,'' he said. ''You want to be sure that the first call is not the last call, that a customer is not doing business with you anymore.''
But Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican and ranking member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, says he has concerns about such mating dances.
''Lost in the debate over how best to legislate the aftermath of the financial crisis has been the necessity to conduct an inward examination of the too-cozy relationship between government enterprises and private industry,'' Mr. Issa said. ''The true nature of this strategic partnership between Countrywide and Fannie-Freddie should be exposed so we can measure the extent to which it fostered the conditions leading to the financial meltdown.''
Understanding how these companies operated is crucial if we want to avoid repeating the mistakes of our recent past. So, when you hear about Fannie and Freddie reform this fall, remember that we still don't know the half of it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); ANGELO R MOZILO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



150 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUMMER RITUALS STREET SPRAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Cracking the Locks on Relief

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
ROASTING in the July heat, a teenager entered a dry cleaner near the northern tip of Manhattan carrying an electric drill and an extension cord. He told the owner he needed to plug the cord in for one minute.
The young man was not in construction. His car was not in need of repair. He was trying to open the fire hydrant outside the dry cleaner, at the corner of Thayer Street and Sherman Avenue in Inwood.
Few neighborhood traditions are as old and as cherished as opening a fire hydrant on a hot summer day in New York City. There are 109,000 hydrants in the five boroughs -- 357 per square mile -- and nearly all of them have at some point in their anonymous cast-iron lives put out fires of a different sort: cooling the overheated hands, heads and hearts of the young and the old.
Scenes of children playing in the misty spray of a New York hydrant still unfold daily, but many hydrants have become more difficult to open because of city-installed locking devices, raising the art of turning them on to new levels of sophistication and mischief. 
In some hydrant-loving neighborhoods, young men spend hours on the challenge of cracking open a so-called custodial lock, a muffin-shaped cap that the city has placed on top of about 45,000 hydrants to prevent tampering. They drill. They bang. They use adjustable pipe wrenches, pliers and screwdrivers. They take apart stereo equipment because somebody told them a component inside works best on the locks, which cost the city about $389 each, a fact that few of those who regularly bust them open seem either aware of or the least bit concerned about.
''Everybody in this neighborhood knows how to open a pump,'' one Inwood teenager boasted. ''There's kids, 7-year-olds, they can open one.''
Tampering with a hydrant, even those like the one on Thayer Street that have city-sanctioned spray caps to reduce the flow, is illegal; opening one without a cap can lead to fines of up to $1,000 and imprisonment of up to 30 days. The Manhattan district attorney has prosecuted at least two men in recent years on misdemeanor charges related to fire hydrants: in one case in 2007, a police officer watched a 25-year-old man strike a hydrant in Washington Heights several times with a wrench and break off the locking device using the not-so-secret weapon in the city's summertime hydrant wars -- a magnet.
Officials said young people could damage hydrants to the point that they would fail to work properly in the event of a fire. Open hydrants also can reduce the flow of water to fire hoses blocks away and decrease water pressure to nearby homes and businesses. At least four children have been killed in New York since 1924 after the force of water from an open hydrant pushed them into the paths of cars and trucks. And city water crews sent to shut off hydrants have been threatened and even assaulted.
''You may be trying to cool off,'' said Cas Holloway, the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection, ''but what you're really doing is putting yourself and the neighborhood at risk.''
(Spray caps, which can be requested at firehouses by anyone 18 or over, reduce the risk by cutting the flow to about 25 gallons per minute from more than 1,000 gallons per minute -- the equivalent of 400 showers running at once. But officials said that even with spray caps, only firefighters were supposed to turn the water on.)
Shortly after 2 p.m. on a recent 90-degree afternoon, a couple of days after the teenager with the drill had gone into the dry cleaner, a group of young men approached the hydrant at Thayer Street and Sherman Avenue. One stood as a lookout while another fiddled with a shiny disc. The disc-fiddler appeared at first glance to be wearing one of those ''I NY'' T-shirts, but upon closer inspection it actually read ''I My Money.''
They worked on the hydrant for more than 10 minutes, pulling up on the base, making mysterious refinements to their mysterious disc and, at one point, checking underneath the adjacent mailbox as if searching for something they had stored there. Then they noticed a reporter and photographer observing them and abruptly gave up (a watched hydrant never opens). When the journalists returned about an hour later, the hydrant was spraying thin lines of water in a low arc across Thayer Street. None of the young men wanted to take credit.
The Thayer Street hydrant is not just any fireplug. It is the city's most-opened hydrant this year; by July 27, 311 operators had logged 75 complaints about it. During the record-breaking heat wave from July 4 to July 7, the Department of Environmental Protection shut the hydrant at least 30 times in response to complaints.
It sits at the edge of the sidewalk near the busy Sherman Avenue, across from a bodega in a largely Dominican area where even the Korean storekeepers are fluent in Spanish. People line this sidewalk in summer, sitting on milk crates and lawn chairs. With so many eyes transforming the street into a stage, a hydrant on a hot day is an illicit way for young men to earn some attention and gratitude.
''This is the fountain of youth,'' said a proud Omar Cruz, 21, dipping his head into the spray.
For Mr. Cruz, the open hydrant is a statement -- about class, economics, urban life and the shortage of public pools in struggling neighborhoods. ''People in the suburbs, they have pools in their backyards,'' Mr. Cruz explained. ''At the end of the day, this is what we have.''
More than a month had passed since the Thayer Street hydrant had been used by firefighters for the purpose for which it had been manufactured, in Chattanooga, Tenn., at a cost to the city of about $1,500. Now, the water streaming out of it at a rate of about 25 gallons per minute soaked the right foot of a bespectacled gray-haired woman. It filled the foam cup of a sandal-clad Santiago Quinones, 54, who lives in the apartment building across the street.
No one who stopped at the hydrant stayed very long, or asked any questions about who had turned it on. An elderly woman wet her handkerchief. A man washed his hands after he finished eating. A woman gave her shopping cart, loaded with bottles and cans, a brief shower. A mother and daughter each dipped their hands in the spray and touched their foreheads, as if dabbing themselves with holy water.
But the hydrant's most frequent consumers were neither men, women nor children. Minivans, a black BMW and numerous other vehicles pulled up to the spray and parked for several minutes, enjoying a free car wash, courtesy of neighborhood youths and the City of New York's multibillion-dollar water system.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FREE WASH: The city's most frequently opened hydrant, in Inwood. (MB1)
 FLOW: No one wanted to take credit for opening this hydrant in Inwood, where vehicles were frequent users but no one stopped for long. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); MISDEMEANORS (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



151 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3104 words

HEADLINE: But Will It Make You Happy?

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
SHE had so much.
A two-bedroom apartment. Two cars. Enough wedding china to serve two dozen people.
Yet Tammy Strobel wasn't happy. Working as a project manager with an investment management firm in Davis, Calif., and making about $40,000 a year, she was, as she put it, caught in the ''work-spend treadmill.''
So one day she stepped off.
Inspired by books and blog entries about living simply, Ms. Strobel and her husband, Logan Smith, both 31, began donating some of their belongings to charity. As the months passed, out went stacks of sweaters, shoes, books, pots and pans, even the television after a trial separation during which it was relegated to a closet. Eventually, they got rid of their cars, too. Emboldened by a Web site that challenges consumers to live with just 100 personal items, Ms. Strobel winnowed down her wardrobe and toiletries to precisely that number. 
Her mother called her crazy.
Today, three years after Ms. Strobel and Mr. Smith began downsizing, they live in Portland, Ore., in a spare, 400-square-foot studio with a nice-sized kitchen. Mr. Smith is completing a doctorate in physiology; Ms. Strobel happily works from home as a Web designer and freelance writer. She owns four plates, three pairs of shoes and two pots. With Mr. Smith in his final weeks of school, Ms. Strobel's income of about $24,000 a year covers their bills. They are still car-free but have bikes. One other thing they no longer have: $30,000 of debt.
Ms. Strobel's mother is impressed. Now the couple have money to travel and to contribute to the education funds of nieces and nephews. And because their debt is paid off, Ms. Strobel works fewer hours, giving her time to be outdoors, and to volunteer, which she does about four hours a week for a nonprofit outreach program called Living Yoga.
''The idea that you need to go bigger to be happy is false,'' she says. ''I really believe that the acquisition of material goods doesn't bring about happiness.''
While Ms. Strobel and her husband overhauled their spending habits before the recession, legions of other consumers have since had to reconsider their own lifestyles, bringing a major shift in the nation's consumption patterns.
''We're moving from a conspicuous consumption -- which is 'buy without regard' -- to a calculated consumption,'' says Marshal Cohen, an analyst at the NPD Group, the retailing research and consulting firm.
Amid weak job and housing markets, consumers are saving more and spending less than they have in decades, and industry professionals expect that trend to continue. Consumers saved 6.4 percent of their after-tax income in June, according to a new government report. Before the recession, the rate was 1 to 2 percent for many years. In June, consumer spending and personal incomes were essentially flat compared with May, suggesting that the American economy, as dependent as it is on shoppers opening their wallets and purses, isn't likely to rebound anytime soon.
On the bright side, the practices that consumers have adopted in response to the economic crisis ultimately could -- as a raft of new research suggests -- make them happier. New studies of consumption and happiness show, for instance, that people are happier when they spend money on experiences instead of material objects, when they relish what they plan to buy long before they buy it, and when they stop trying to outdo the Joneses.
If consumers end up sticking with their newfound spending habits, some tactics that retailers and marketers began deploying during the recession could become lasting business strategies. Among those strategies are proffering merchandise that makes being at home more entertaining and trying to make consumers feel special by giving them access to exclusive events and more personal customer service.
While the current round of stinginess may simply be a response to the economic downturn, some analysts say consumers may also be permanently adjusting their spending based on what they've discovered about what truly makes them happy or fulfilled.
''This actually is a topic that hasn't been researched very much until recently,'' says Elizabeth W. Dunn, an associate professor in the psychology department at the University of British Columbia, who is at the forefront of research on consumption and happiness. ''There's massive literature on income and happiness. It's amazing how little there is on how to spend your money.''
CONSPICUOUS consumption has been an object of fascination going back at least as far as 1899, when the economist Thorstein Veblen published ''The Theory of the Leisure Class,'' a book that analyzed, in part, how people spent their money in order to demonstrate their social status.
And it's been a truism for eons that extra cash always makes life a little easier. Studies over the last few decades have shown that money, up to a certain point, makes people happier because it lets them meet basic needs. The latest round of research is, for lack of a better term, all about emotional efficiency: how to reap the most happiness for your dollar.
So just where does happiness reside for consumers? Scholars and researchers haven't determined whether Armani will put a bigger smile on your face than Dolce & Gabbana. But they have found that our types of purchases, their size and frequency, and even the timing of the spending all affect long-term happiness.
One major finding is that spending money for an experience -- concert tickets, French lessons, sushi-rolling classes, a hotel room in Monaco -- produces longer-lasting satisfaction than spending money on plain old stuff.
'' 'It's better to go on a vacation than buy a new couch' is basically the idea,'' says Professor Dunn, summing up research by two fellow psychologists, Leaf Van Boven and Thomas Gilovich. Her own take on the subject is in a paper she wrote with colleagues at Harvard and the University of Virginia: ''If Money Doesn't Make You Happy Then You Probably Aren't Spending It Right.'' (The Journal of Consumer Psychology plans to publish it in a coming issue.)
Thomas DeLeire, an associate professor of public affairs, population, health and economics at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, recently published research examining nine major categories of consumption. He discovered that the only category to be positively related to happiness was leisure: vacations, entertainment, sports and equipment like golf clubs and fishing poles.
Using data from a study by the National Institute on Aging, Professor DeLeire compared the happiness derived from different levels of spending to the happiness people get from being married. (Studies have shown that marriage increases happiness.)
''A $20,000 increase in spending on leisure was roughly equivalent to the happiness boost one gets from marriage,'' he said, adding that spending on leisure activities appeared to make people less lonely and increased their interactions with others.
According to retailers and analysts, consumers have gravitated more toward experiences than possessions over the last couple of years, opting to use their extra cash for nights at home with family, watching movies and playing games -- or for ''staycations'' in the backyard. Many retailing professionals think this is not a fad, but rather ''the new normal.''
''I think many of these changes are permanent changes,'' says Jennifer Black, president of the retailing research company Jennifer Black & Associates and a member of the Governor's Council of Economic Advisors in Oregon. ''I think people are realizing they don't need what they had. They're more interested in creating memories.''
She largely attributes this to baby boomers' continuing concerns about the job market and their ability to send their children to college. While they will still spend, they will spend less, she said, having reset their priorities.
While it is unlikely that most consumers will downsize as much as Ms. Strobel did, many have been, well, happily surprised by the pleasures of living a little more simply. The Boston Consulting Group said in a June report that recession anxiety had prompted a ''back-to-basics movement,'' with things like home and family increasing in importance over the last two years, while things like luxury and status have declined.
''There's been an emotional rebirth connected to acquiring things that's really come out of this recession,'' says Wendy Liebmann, chief executive of WSL Strategic Retail, a marketing consulting firm that works with manufacturers and retailers. ''We hear people talking about the desire not to lose that -- that connection, the moment, the family, the experience.''
Current research suggests that, unlike consumption of material goods, spending on leisure and services typically strengthens social bonds, which in turn helps amplify happiness. (Academics are already in broad agreement that there is a strong correlation between the quality of people's relationships and their happiness; hence, anything that promotes stronger social bonds has a good chance of making us feel all warm and fuzzy.)
And the creation of complex, sophisticated relationships is a rare thing in the world. As Professor Dunn and her colleagues Daniel T. Gilbert and Timothy D. Wilson point out in their forthcoming paper, only termites, naked mole rats and certain insects like ants and bees construct social networks as complex as those of human beings. In that elite little club, humans are the only ones who shop.
AT the height of the recession in 2008, Wal-Mart Stores realized that consumers were ''cocooning'' -- vacationing in their yards, eating more dinners at home, organizing family game nights. So it responded by grouping items in its stores that would turn any den into an at-home movie theater or transform a backyard into a slice of the Catskills. Wal-Mart wasn't just selling barbecues and board games. It was selling experiences.
''We spend a lot of time listening to our customers,'' says Amy Lester, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, ''and know that they have a set amount to spend and need to juggle to meet that amount.''
One reason that paying for experiences gives us longer-lasting happiness is that we can reminisce about them, researchers say. That's true for even the most middling of experiences. That trip to Rome during which you waited in endless lines, broke your camera and argued with your spouse will typically be airbrushed with ''rosy recollection,'' says Sonja Lyubomirsky, a psychology professor at the University of California, Riverside.
Professor Lyubomirsky has a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health to conduct research on the possibility of permanently increasing happiness. ''Trips aren't all perfect,'' she notes, ''but we remember them as perfect.''
Another reason that scholars contend that experiences provide a bigger pop than things is that they can't be absorbed in one gulp -- it takes more time to adapt to them and engage with them than it does to put on a new leather jacket or turn on that shiny flat-screen TV.
''We buy a new house, we get accustomed to it,'' says Professor Lyubomirsky, who studies what psychologists call ''hedonic adaptation,'' a phenomenon in which people quickly become used to changes, great or terrible, in order to maintain a stable level of happiness.
Over time, that means the buzz from a new purchase is pushed toward the emotional norm.
''We stop getting pleasure from it,'' she says.
And then, of course, we buy new things.
When Ed Diener, a psychology professor at the University of Illinois and a former president of the International Positive Psychology Association -- which promotes the study of what lets people lead fulfilling lives -- was house-hunting with his wife, they saw several homes with features they liked.
But unlike couples who choose a house because of its open floor plan, fancy kitchens, great light, or spacious bedrooms, Professor Diener arrived at his decision after considering hedonic-adaptation research.
''One home was close to hiking trails, making going hiking very easy,'' he said in an e-mail. ''Thinking about the research, I argued that the hiking trails could be a factor contributing to our happiness, and we should worry less about things like how pretty the kitchen floor is or whether the sinks are fancy. We bought the home near the hiking trail and it has been great, and we haven't tired of this feature because we take a walk four or five days a week.''
Scholars have discovered that one way consumers combat hedonic adaptation is to buy many small pleasures instead of one big one. Instead of a new Jaguar, Professor Lyubomirsky advises, buy a massage once a week, have lots of fresh flowers delivered and make phone calls to friends in Europe. Instead of a two-week long vacation, take a few three-day weekends.
''We do adapt to the little things,'' she says, ''but because there's so many, it will take longer.''
BEFORE credit cards and cellphones enabled consumers to have almost anything they wanted at any time, the experience of shopping was richer, says Ms. Liebmann of WSL Strategic Retail. ''You saved for it, you anticipated it,'' she says.
In other words, waiting for something and working hard to get it made it feel more valuable and more stimulating.
In fact, scholars have found that anticipation increases happiness. Considering buying an iPad? You might want to think about it as long as possible before taking one home. Likewise about a Caribbean escape: you'll get more pleasure if you book a flight in advance than if you book it at the last minute.
Once upon a time, with roots that go back to medieval marketplaces featuring stalls that functioned as stores, shopping offered a way to connect socially, as Ms. Liebmann and others have pointed out. But over the last decade, retailing came to be about one thing: unbridled acquisition, epitomized by big-box stores where the mantra was ''stack 'em high and let 'em fly'' and online transactions that required no social interaction at all -- you didn't even have to leave your home.
The recession, however, may force retailers to become reacquainted with shopping's historical roots.
''I think there's a real opportunity in retail to be able to romance the experience again,'' says Ms. Liebmann. ''Retailers are going to have to work very hard to create that emotional feeling again. And it can't just be 'Here's another thing to buy.' It has to have a real sense of experience to it.''
Industry professionals say they have difficulty identifying any retailer that is managing to do this well today, with one notable exception: Apple, which offers an interactive retail experience, including classes.
Marie Driscoll, head of the retailing group at Standard & Poor's, says chains have to adapt to new consumer preferences by offering better service, special events and access to designers. Analysts at the Boston Consulting Group advise that companies offer more affordable indulgences, like video games that provide an at-home workout for far less than the cost of a gym membership.
Mr. Cohen of the NPD Group says some companies are doing this. Best Buy is promoting its Geek Squad, promising shoppers before they buy that complicated electronic thingamajig that its employees will hold their hands through the installation process and beyond.
''Nowadays with the economic climate, customers definitely are going for a quality experience,'' says Nick DeVita, a home entertainment adviser with the Geek Squad. ''If they're going to spend their money, they want to make sure it's for the right thing, the right service.''
With competition for consumer dollars fiercer than it's been in decades, retailers have had to make the shopping experience more compelling. Mr. Cohen says automakers are offering 30-day test drives, while some clothing stores are promising free personal shoppers. Malls are providing day care while parents shop. Even on the Web, retailers are connecting on customers on Facebook, Twitter and Foursquare, hoping to win their loyalty by offering discounts and invitations to special events.
FOR the last four years, Roko Belic, a Los Angeles filmmaker, has been traveling the world making a documentary called ''Happy.'' Since beginning work on the film, he has moved to a beach in Malibu from his house in the San Francisco suburbs.
San Francisco was nice, but he couldn't surf there.
''I moved to a trailer park,'' says Mr. Belic, ''which is the first real community that I've lived in in my life.'' Now he surfs three or four times a week. ''It definitely has made me happier,'' he says. ''The things we are trained to think make us happy, like having a new car every couple of years and buying the latest fashions, don't make us happy.''
Mr. Belic says his documentary shows that ''the one single trait that's common among every single person who is happy is strong relationships.''
Buying luxury goods, conversely, tends to be an endless cycle of one-upmanship, in which the neighbors have a fancy new car and -- bingo! -- now you want one, too, scholars say. A study published in June in Psychological Science by Ms. Dunn and others found that wealth interfered with people's ability to savor positive emotions and experiences, because having an embarrassment of riches reduced the ability to reap enjoyment from life's smaller everyday pleasures, like eating a chocolate bar.
Alternatively, spending money on an event, like camping or a wine tasting with friends, leaves people less likely to compare their experiences with those of others -- and, therefore, happier.
Of course, some fashion lovers beg to differ. For many people, clothes will never be more than utilitarian. But for a certain segment of the population, clothes are an art form, a means of self-expression, a way for families to pass down memories through generations. For them, studies concluding that people eventually stop deriving pleasure from material things don't ring true.
''No way,'' says Hayley Corwick, who writes the popular fashion blog Madison Avenue Spy. ''I could pull out things from my closet that I bought when I was 17 that I still love.''
She rejects the idea that happiness has to be an either-or proposition. Some days, you want a trip, she says; other days, you want a Tom Ford handbag.
MS. STROBEL -- our heroine who moved into the 400-square foot apartment -- is now an advocate of simple living, writing in her spare time about her own life choices at Rowdykittens.com.
''My lifestyle now would not be possible if I still had a huge two-bedroom apartment filled to the gills with stuff, two cars, and 30 grand in debt,'' she says.
''Give away some of your stuff,'' she advises. ''See how it feels.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIKTOR KOEN) (BU1)
Roko Belic, a filmmaker, moved from San Francisco to a trailer park in Malibu and now surfs often. He is working on a documentary about happiness. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Tammy Strobel and her husband, Logan Smith, in their pared-down, 400-square-foot apartment in Portland, Ore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (77%); SIMPLE LIVING (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); CHARITIES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); TRENDS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); WRITERS (71%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (70%) OREGON, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



152 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Afraid of Deflation? Try Some Medicine

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AS chatter has grown about the possibility of a double-dip recession, so, too, have fears about another ''D'' word: deflation.
Late last month, Jeremy Grantham, the chief investment strategist at GMO, an investment firm based in Boston, issued a warning about deflation after worrying for months that inflationary pressures were brewing. Mr. Grantham told GMO clients recently that as the recovery has slowed, ''downward pressure on prices from weak wages and weak demand seems to me now to be much the larger factor.''
In doing so, he joined a growing list of prominent analysts -- including William H. Gross, the co-chief investment officer of Pimco -- who've raised concerns that consumption may be postponed and growth thwarted if price declines occur throughout the economy. 
Long periods of deflation are quite rare. In fact, before Japan's on-again, off-again experience with deflation starting in the 1990s, you have to go all the way back to the Great Depression to find another sustained bout of this trend in the developed world.
As a result, if deflation were actually to strike in the United States -- and that is a big ''if'' -- investors might not be able to draw from their own experience to determine how best to position their portfolios.
So what are investors to do?
One textbook strategy is to buy long-term Treasury bonds, which many people already appear to be doing as a hedge against general economic troubles. Yields on 10-year Treasury securities have plunged to 2.8 percent from about 3.8 percent in late April.
In the 1930s, this strategy proved successful in combating deflation, as long-term government bonds generated nominal total returns of nearly 5 percent a year, versus annualized losses of 0.1 percent for equities during that decade, according to Ibbotson Associates.
Strategists who've expressed concerns about deflation aren't necessarily predicting a return to protracted, Depression-era downward price spirals. ''We're certainly not positioning for a Japan-like scenario,'' said Ben Inker, a colleague of Mr. Grantham's who is GMO's head of asset allocation.
Robert D. Arnott, chairman of the asset management firm Research Affiliates in Newport Beach, Calif., said that while a brief bout of modest deflation was a threat in the short run, inflation -- or rising prices that eat away at consumers' purchasing power -- remained the bigger long-term menace.
He said that growing fears over deflation made it more likely that policy makers would overreact in their attempts to stimulate growth in the economy. And that, in turn, means that ''inflation is still what you have to worry about down the road,'' he said.
As a result, Mr. Arnott isn't focusing entirely on near-term deflation. Rather than buying long-term Treasuries, he suggests an investment in Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS.
Mr. Arnott argues that if inflation begins to become a threat two or three years down the road, having the inflationary hedge of a TIPS bond will protect an investor against rising prices -- which is something that a regular Treasury bond won't do.
In the meantime, individual TIPS are still government bonds backed by the full faith and credit of Uncle Sam. And even if Mr. Arnott is wrong and deflation persists for years, investors who buy individual TIPS will at least have the security of being able to recoup the face value of their bond at maturity, while still earning a yield of around 1.2 percent a year.
Now that's 1.6 percentage points less than what regular Treasuries of equivalent maturities are paying. But, Mr. Arnott asks, ''What are the chances of inflation being less'' than that for a decade?
If you truly fear deflation, fixed-income securities -- because of their relative safety and the income they throw off -- will most likely be better than equities, money managers say. But they note that investors need to be choosy about the types of bonds they buy.
Among corporate securities, investors should pay attention to companies' balance sheets. ''You want to avoid highly leveraged companies,'' said Carl P. Kaufman, manager of the Osterweis Strategic Income fund. In a deflationary environment, a debt-ridden company would have to pay back obligations with increasingly valuable dollars. ''In inflation, you're cheapening the value of dollars over time,'' Mr. Kaufman said. ''In deflation, it's the opposite: dollars become dearer over time.''
Fixed-income investors may want to focus on high-quality companies that routinely generate tons of cash. The same argument goes for equity investors as well.
Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's, says that in deflationary times, some stocks could actually post gains. Throughout the 1990s, when the Japanese stock market began to crater under the weight of deflationary forces, technology, telecommunications and health care shares rose on local markets.
INVESTORS who want to maintain their stock weightings should consider ''high-quality, large, blue-chip companies that have balance-sheet strength,'' said Brian McMahon, chief investment officer at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, N.M. He said companies like Google and Microsoft often have an added advantage: dominance over their industries, enabling them to maintain their prices even if others in the industry start to lower theirs.
Stocks that pay dividends would also make sense, because the cash thrown off by these shares would be quite valuable in a deflationary environment.
In fact, said Mr. Inker of GMO, if investors really fear deflation, they might consider increasing the cash in their portfolios. ''There's a strong case for building up dry powder,'' he said. ''If something bad happens economically -- whether it's deflation or inflation -- that's generally provides a good buying opportunity for investors who have some cash to put to work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); RECESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); INFLATION (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



153 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE CHOICE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Worried About College? Turn the Tables

BYLINE: By STEVE SINGER

 BODY:
I have been a college admissions junkie since 1972. Since 1985, I have been director of college counseling at Horace Mann School in the Bronx. At the end of this month, I will retire from a job I have dearly loved.
Each day, I encounter warm, energetic, funny and shockingly intelligent kids with a genuine hunger to learn. But for all of their talent and brains, they seem to be hard-wired to worry about getting into college. 
They have always worried. The difference between now and 1985, though, is that it is much harder for them, and for kids like them, blessed with extraordinary educational and cultural opportunities, to get admitted to the colleges they would most like to attend. In 1985, they looked askance at classmates and friends at ''peer'' institutions, who represented the ''competition.''
This wasn't the case then; it certainly isn't now.
The students they compete with are students they can't see: from projects in Dorchester, Mass.; from split levels in Los Alamos, N.M.; from farms in Manhattan, Kan. Just as significant are the students from favelas in Rio, walk-ups in Sofia, rice paddies in the Mekong Delta. Colleges that once admitted 20 percent of their applicants now admit 9 percent. Those whose admit rate was 80 percent now admit 25 percent.
Kids can take solace, if they are able and willing, in that everyone is in the same leaky boat.
Even linebackers, bassoon players, alumni children and ''development cases'' need stronger credentials.
What do colleges want? Great grades. Astronomical test scores. The hardest courses. (Fair enough, almost.)
They also apparently mandate exquisite, compelling, heart-rending, profound and hilarious essays. Student leadership at the national level (O.K., the state level). Oscar nominations (see, you don't have to win). A 4.2 -- not G.P.A., everybody seems to have that -- but in the 40-yard dash. More. Better. Now.
There are many reasons. Of major importance is the conscious choice of colleges and universities to recruit, intensively, the most talented and interesting adolescents on this planet (so far) from the most varied cultural, economic and ethnic communities.
They have chosen this path out of perceived necessity. They must enhance, or at worst maintain, their academic prestige and financial health. They also choose God's work, lifting up youngsters who, without higher education, would be doomed to lives of poverty, disease and despair.
Most of the work is just heavy lifting. The task for college admissions is to meet ''enrollment goals'' set by the officials at the top of the organizational charts. These were once modest in number. Now, they are not. Trustees feel pressure. So do presidents. So do faculty members, and the pressure flows down. Admissions is middle management, where there are no tenure tracks.
Admissions numbers - applications, admit rates, student yield, extracurricular achievements, diversity - can affect bond ratings, national rankings, standings with your traditional ''rivals.'' Bad numbers threaten prestige, contributions and the ability to do ''good works.'' They threaten jobs.
What does ''Upstairs'' want? More. Better. Now. Thus: sales, marketing and enrollment strategies, devised and implemented by some of the most distinguished adults at some of the most distinguished institutions of higher learning, and tactics, which are downloaded on the heads of 17-year-olds.
The grown-ups are not bad people. They believe in education. They like kids. They also make their choices. No applicant has the ''right'' to, is ''entitled'' to, or ''earns'' or ''deserves'' an acceptance letter. Virtually everyone could do honors work. Every kid has the right to be 17.
This is not a tragedy. We have the strongest and most accessible system of higher education in the world. You can get an exceptional education at hundreds of outstanding colleges. You can enrich yourself intellectually, materially and spiritually. The most common response to this? ''Yeah, right.''
That's kind of tragic. The adults are allowed to scramble the brains of high school kids. But if they and their bedraggled parents -- poor and otherwise -- want to ''beat'' the system, they have to give up a most cherished fantasy, reinforced every waking minute by friends, relatives, dry cleaners and, if you are so fortunate, the doorman: you attend a ''name'' college, or you are relegated to the dustbin of human existence.
Do not let them do this to you. Rebel. Be ornery. This is a buyers' market. Take advantage. Have a great senior year. Apply to the usual suspects. They are good colleges. But write your applications in your own voice. What do they want? The average admissions officer works about 70 hours a week for a salary that will require at least one roommate in a tiny apartment. She or he can't spend more than, say, 15 minutes per application.
Everyone is trying to come across as Edmund Wilson, Erwin Schrodinger or Edna St. Vincent Millay. What do they want? Actually, essays that make them feel like they're in their room with a 17-year-old kid, albeit thoughtful and accomplished. Feel free. Be yourself. It's the only marketing device that can work.
But first, find strong colleges that are suitable for you, that can compete on the merits with the usual suspects and that will actually admit you. These are eminently findable. Learn enough about them to genuinely appreciate what they offer. Apply, enthusiastically, with care. Get admitted. To a few. So no matter what, you are in good shape.
Now, aha, the shoe is on the other foot. Now you have the power. They need you, an enrollment goal. Now you can write to them:
Dear College:
I was delighted and deeply honored to receive your admissions offer.
However, I can attend only one of the many fine colleges that have admitted me. It has been very difficult for me to make a final decision, but I have made it.
Unfortunately, I must decline your wonderful offer. I am certain that you will enroll many fine students, and I wish you well in your future endeavors.
Sincerely ...
To comment on what Mr. Singer has written -- and, perhaps, give your own take on the state of high-stakes college admissions -- please use the comment box below.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RELAX: Steve Singer, the departing director of college counseling at Horace Mann School. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); SLUM DWELLINGS (66%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (64%); ETHNICITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



154 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: A Gift the Wealthy Don't Need

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
A CENTRAL lesson of the Great Depression was that economies mired in deep downturns seldom recover quickly on their own. Consumers won't spend because they're worried about losing their jobs -- if they haven't lost them already -- and are busy paying down debt. Companies won't invest because they already have more than enough capacity to satisfy existing demand. That leaves government. It's the only remaining actor with both the means and the motive to bolster total spending substantially.
Yet in 2009, when economic stimulus legislation was proposed in Congress, many people insisted that the extra government spending would do no good. They argued that the prospect of big fiscal deficits would cause consumers to save more to meet higher future tax bills, thus offsetting any stimulus effect. 
That might have been true of some consumers, but most hadn't been saving nearly enough to begin with. By spending wildly before the downturn, many were content to ignore the prospect of having to eat pet food during retirement. Why would a vague threat of higher tax liabilities at some unspecified future date impel them to save more?
The stimulus that was actually approved was much smaller than the demand shortfall it was meant to address. And now, with the spending beginning to run out, there are troubling signs that the recovery is faltering.
But stimulus opponents -- a group that includes most Republicans in Congress and sometimes a handful of Democrats -- have gone on to advocate cutting existing programs, like food stamps and Medicare. They have repeatedly blocked extensions of long-term unemployment benefits. Most recently, they have joined European deficit hawks in calling for further spending cuts to prevent national insolvency -- a threat that financial markets have discounted.
Now stimulus opponents want to extend the tax cuts of President George W. Bush -- cuts that are scheduled to expire at year-end. Almost all professional economists believe that those cuts have already increased the national debt by hundreds of billions of dollars. Even Alan Greenspan, who supported the tax cuts as chairman of the Federal Reserve, has publicly opposed their extension. The Obama administration wants to eliminate the tax cuts for families earning at least $250,000 a year, and for individuals earning at least $200,000.
Why, then, do stimulus opponents want to keep them? Brace yourself: it's because the economy needs additional stimulus, they say. As the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said in a recent interview on CNN, ''Raising taxes in the middle of a recession is not a good idea.''
What might stimulus opponents really want? The common element in their contradictory policy recommendations is that each curbs the scope of government. Neutral observers could reasonably conclude that they are just the latest salvos in a longstanding ''starve the beast'' strategy. As Grover Norquist, president of an antitax advocacy group, Americans for Tax Reform, colorfully described that strategy on NPR in 2001: ''I don't want to abolish government, I simply want to reduce it to the size where I can drag it into the bathroom and drown it in the bathtub.''
Starve-the-beast proponents have a point. There is waste in government, and by following their wishes, we eliminate some of it. But most government programs exist because voters want them. The ones most likely to be cut are those with the least influential supporters, which are not always the most worthy targets.
Anti-government rhetoric, meanwhile, takes a toll. American prosperity reflects a historical tradition of good government, an advantage we should be loath to squander. But good government doesn't just happen. It must be nurtured. Capable civil servants who take pride in their work are a prerequisite for it, and anti-government talk surely doesn't make it any easier to recruit such people.
EVEN a broken clock is right twice a day, so the notion that starving the beast is a bad strategy doesn't imply that its proponents are wrong about everything. With the economic recovery clearly sputtering, could they be correct to insist that the Bush tax cuts on the wealthy be extended?
Alas, no. All the Bush tax cuts are set to expire on Dec. 31. Because most poor and middle-income families consume their entire income, higher tax rates for those families would indeed deprive the economy of much-needed short-run stimulus. But extending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest families would be one of the worst possible ways to stimulate spending. These families typically consume much less than their income. Instead of trying to use up all their savings before they die, most prefer to leave substantial bequests. Letting their tax cuts expire might reduce those bequests, but it will not reduce their current consumption significantly.
It will, however, generate revenue that could be used to bolster spending in a host of ways that would be useful even apart from the stimulus effects. Because state and local government budgets are in shambles, hundreds of teachers, police officers and firefighters are being laid off every week. Federal grants could keep them on the job.
States around the country have also been allowing thousands of miles of asphalt roads to deteriorate back to gravel, even as skilled workers and heavy equipment stand idly by. The eventual bill for repaving those roads will add much more to deficits than if we had maintained them properly in the first place.
To bolster current spending without adding more to deficits than necessary, we have no better option than to let the Bush tax cuts on the wealthy expire as scheduled.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); MEDICARE (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); PET FOODS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); MITCH MCCONNELL (55%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



155 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Traffic-Camera Debate Heats Up Campaign Trails

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
It is a common consequence of having a car these days: a driver arrives home, opens the mail and -- surprise! -- finds a summons attached to a grainy photograph purporting to show the driver (or at least the driver's vehicle) involved in a traffic violation.
Now, as cash-challenged localities increasingly rely on such fines, traffic cameras have become a hot issue on the campaign trail and have even drawn federal scrutiny in a trend reflecting the populist outrage of this political season. 
The issue has bubbled up in places like Cleveland, where Matt Brakey, a 29-year-old businessman seeking a spot on the Cuyahoga County Council, has proclaimed his opposition to traffic cameras on his campaign Web site and at events like one he recently held at a busy intersection where he unfurled a banner announcing his stance.
''There were lots of honks,'' said Mr. Brakey, a Republican and first-time candidate for office. ''This issue really taps into the general dissatisfaction with government.''
Indeed, the outrage over the cameras echoes the general concerns about government that have fueled protests movements like the Tea Party.
But the protests also underscore the sting many Americans feel in these economic times at having to pay fines of $25, $50 or $100 for traffic infractions that, in some cases, they had no idea they committed.
''It's a huge pocketbook issue,'' Mr. Brakey said. ''I've talked to people who can't renew their driver's license because they have all these tickets.''
Nearly 550 local governments use traffic cameras, according to experts studying the issue. But the grass-roots protests and challenges are having an impact. Fifteen states and 11 cities -- including Arlington, Tex.; Anchorage; and Cincinnati -- have banned or restricted the use of the devices, according to the National Motorist Association.
The effectiveness of traffic cameras is a matter of debate.
A study of seven communities by the Federal Highway Administration found that while the more dangerous broadside collisions were reduced by 25 percent at intersections with traffic lights that had a camera, there was also a 15 percent increase in rear-end collisions, possibly caused by drivers slamming on their brakes at the sight of the devices.
Still, proponents contend that the cameras have become a valuable tool for protecting the public at a time when police departments are stretched thin under ever increasing budget constraints.
Critics say, however, that the cameras serve no purpose other than to generate money for local governments and the private companies that install the devices.
In many instances, the critics say, local governments have been accused of placing cameras at busy intersections where they could generate high volumes of tickets, regardless of whether those intersections were considered dangerous.
At a Congressional hearing in June, Representative Peter A. DeFazio, an Oregon Democrat who is the chairman of the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, raised concerns that companies that install the cameras were unfairly profiting from the contracts that local governments awarded them.
''In some cases, the private vendor gets paid a contingency fee per citation, which means they have a financial incentive to issue large volumes of citations,'' he said. ''An agreement like that really does cause one to wonder if using a contingency fee model is really about safety or lining the pockets of vendors.''
The debate is raging in places like Cook County, Ill., where protests broke out over the Democratic-controlled county board's plan to install cameras on roads in suburban Chicago communities.
Roger Keats, a Republican, has latched on to the issue as he mounts what he acknowledges is a long-shot campaign for president of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in the heavily Democratic county.
Mr. Keats has held news conferences and other public events where, he says, he has found receptive audiences for his anti-camera crusade, even in Democratic areas. ''This issue has legs,'' he said. ''It's like a hidden tax on people -- $100 a ticket.''
Mr. Keats, a retired state senator, has poked fun at his Democratic rival, Alderman Toni Preckwinkle of Chicago, for not challenging the Democrats on the county board over that and other issues.
In an interview, Ms. Preckwinkle said she supported the county plan, but believed local communities should have a say in where the cameras were placed.
But Mr. Keats says the local communities just do not want cameras. ''They've made it clear,'' he said.
In Tennessee, the recent Republican primary for mayor of Knox County turned nasty over the issue.
Tim Hutchison, a popular former sheriff in the race, accused his rival for the party's nomination, State Senator Tim Burchett, of sponsoring a bill in the Legislature that gave local governments the authority to install traffic cameras.
But the senator said Mr. Hutchison was distorting his record, saying the bill actually put restrictions on the fines and other penalties motorists faced as a result of violations captured on the cameras.
Mr. Burchett then struck back, with his campaign digging up information indicating that Mr. Hutchison had once been under consideration for a position on the board of a company that manufactures traffic cameras.
''I let him have it,'' Mr. Burchett said. ''It basically put him on notice that we weren't going to put up with his shenanigans.''
In the end, Mr. Burchett won the primary, and the general election, which was held on Thursday. But he said the outcome of the primary most likely would have been different if he had been on the wrong side of the traffic camera issue.
''It would have hurt the campaign,'' he said. ''It's a volatile issue.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matt Brakey, left, has publicized his opposition to traffic cameras in his campaign for the Cuyahoga County Council in Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANASTASIA PANTSIOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Critics fear that traffic cameras may be a tool to line the pockets of their makers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISHA PAGE/ARGUS LEADER, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TRENDS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); DRIVERS LICENSES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (70%); COUNTIES (69%); POLICE FORCES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



156 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; WHEELS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: THE BLOG: Hyundai Sets Lofty Fuel Goal

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. -- Hyundai said on Wednesday that its entire product lineup in the United States would average at least 50 miles per gallon by 2025 -- somehow. That would be an improvement of about 60 percent from the ratings of the cars and trucks Hyundai sells today. 
Hyundai Motor America's chief executive, John Krafcik, acknowledged that the goal was a stretch, but said he was ''very confident'' the company could reach it.
''We don't know precisely how to get there right now,'' he said, speaking here at the Center for Automotive Research's Management Briefing Seminars. ''We do have a road map.''
Mr. Krafcik said Hyundai expected to mostly use technologies available today with modifications to minimize fuel consumption. He said the company envisioned a 2025 lineup in which 75 to 80 percent of vehicles still ran on traditional gas engines. He said 15 to 20 percent would be hybrids or hybrid plug-ins, and 5 percent would run on fuel cells or batteries.
Hyundai already is the nation's fuel-economy leader, with an average rating of 30.9 miles per gallon in 2008, the most recent year for which the Environmental Protection Agency has released ratings. That compares with ratings of 30.1 for Honda, 29 for Toyota and about 24 for all three Detroit automakers.
By 2016, the United States will require automakers to have an average rating of at least 35.5 miles per gallon under rules created last year.
''We want to lead the industry in fuel efficiency,'' Mr. Krafcik said. ''We're doing it now. We want to help set the trajectory for the industry.''
Hyundai has been heavily focused on improving the fuel economy of its newest models, offering the 2011 Sonata sedan with only a 4-cylinder engine and no option to choose a more powerful V-6. By doing so, it was able to cut 130 pounds from the car's weight.
Hyundai will introduce a hybrid version of the Sonata -- its first hybrid in the United States -- this fall.
Mr. Krafcik noted that a carmaker's corporate average fuel economy, or CAFE rating, is calculated in such a way that the numbers shown on vehicles' window stickers are about 20 percent less. So a CAFE rating of 50 miles per gallon would require combined city-and-highway sticker ratings of about 40.
But in order to average 50 miles per gallon through the whole lineup, he said some vehicles would need to be rated at 60 m.p.g. or above in order to balance out less efficient models.
Mr. Krafcik also said he believed Hyundai could sell more than 500,000 vehicles in the United States this year for the first time ever. In the first six months, it sold 255,782.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ARRIVING SOON: The Hyundai Sonata Hybrid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (74%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (51%)

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (74%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



157 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Invited to Visit Iran, Expatriates Receive a Chilly Reception From Hard-Liners

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YONG and ROBERT F. WORTH; William Yong reported from Tehran, and Robert F. Worth from Washington.

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- Over the past year, conservatives here have often fulminated against the role played by Iranian exiles, who helped organize protests against the disputed 2009 presidential election across the globe.
But last week, the Iranian government paid for several hundred ''highly placed'' Iranians living abroad to come back for a three-day, all-expenses-paid trip. They were invited as part of a high-profile effort to repair Iran's pariah image, win over some of the expatriates and, not least, draw some much-needed foreign capital to Iran's troubled economy.
The guests were treated to a musical performance, a fawning speech by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad -- complete with oddly inappropriate wisecracks -- and a trip to the tourist destination of their choice. 
The event did not exactly go as planned.
The gathering, officially known as the Grand Conference of Iranians Living Abroad, is based on the idea that ''lying media organizations outside the country with the aim of painting a black picture of the situation in Iran have created an incorrect impression such that some of our countrymen do not have a bright and clear picture of Iran,'' as the conference organizer, Mohammad Sharif Malekzadeh, said in April.
But no sooner had the visitors arrived in Tehran than hard-liners condemned them as traitors. Some clerics were offended by the musical event, which featured women playing traditional music alongside men. The visit aroused such a storm in the media that the Tehran City Council removed all banners and billboards advertising it, said Khabar Online, an Iranian Web site.
In short, the conference underscored an ambivalence that had been part of Iranian political culture ever since the Islamic Revolution in 1979: an evangelizing impulse coupled with a deep distrust of those who ventured outside the fold. As a result, an event that was aimed at polishing Iran's image ended up showcasing many of the country's bitter internal divisions.
To some of the visitors, the trip was nothing more than a junket to visit relatives, paid for by a government they despised. One attendee grinned when asked about the conference. ''They brought a couple of hundred of us here, all with Ph.D.'s and M.D.'s, just to listen to their propaganda,'' said the man, an engineering professor who left Iran 30 years ago and now lives in the United States. ''Lots of us just wanted to see our families.''
Hard-liners criticized the first conference last year, but this year they were especially vitriolic.
The expatriates ''consider the Islamic Republic to be 'undeveloped' and 'bloodthirsty,' they think the Islamic nature of the regime is 'problematic' and they wish to remove the role of the Supreme Leader from the Constitution,'' said one editorial in the far-right newspaper Kayhan, which is widely considered a mouthpiece for Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
Photographs of the musical performance, in which women could be seen wearing head scarves much looser than those usually required at government events, were published on hard-line Web sites and drew outrage. When female musicians played for the crowd, two clerics left the hall in protest, said a report on the Tabnak Web site.
Perhaps oddest of all was Mr. Ahmadinejad's speech, which at times resembled a stand-up comedy routine, and included jokes with lewd references. At one point, saying that blaming Iran for the world's problems was futile, he used a Persian expression that can be loosely translated as ''that breast has gone away with the bogeyman,'' but with a vulgarism for the body part.
Reformists deplored the conference as an empty gesture by a government whose policies have unnecessarily alienated Iranians living abroad.
''While the government has driven away domestic investors with incorrect policies, a conference for expatriate Iranians is held with the aim of attracting investors,'' Dariush Ghanbari, a reformist member of Parliament, said Tuesday, according to the news agency ILNA. ''This is a clear contradiction.'' Mr. Ghanbari added that a large number of professionals had fled Iran in the past year, after the election and the brutal government crackdown that followed it.
Some critics of the government claim that as many as 200,000 educated Iranians leave every year, though estimates vary. In 2007, the International Monetary Fund said Iran had the worst ''brain drain'' of 90 nations it surveyed.
The expatriates' visit also highlighted divisions among Iran's conservatives. Mr. Ahmadinejad's chief of staff, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, helped organize the event and was featured in its promotional videos. His involvement drew denunciations from some conservatives who accuse him of holding liberal ideas and unorthodox religious beliefs.
''Who is it that is taking advantage of the name and position of the president?'' asked the Kayhan editorial.
The visit was also an effort to draw investment to Iran's ailing economy. The guests were invited to invest in the Currency Fund for Iranian Expatriates, based on Kish, a free-trade zone in the Persian Gulf. (It is not clear whether such investments would violate the recent sanctions on Iran.) Earlier efforts to bring in money from Iranian expatriates have had little success. Some analysts suggested that this year's pitch was less plausible than ever.
''Right now relations between the government and the Iranian-American community are at the lowest point they've ever been, as a result of the conduct of the Ahmadinejad government, especially since the election,'' said Trita Parsi, a scholar based in the United States who writes about Iran. ''A conference here or there will not make any difference in that larger picture.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Hooshang Amirahmadi, who now lives in the United States, recently returned to Tehran for a conference of Iranians living abroad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); RELIGION (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MUSIC (74%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); TOURISM (54%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



158 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEATER REVIEW CONNECTICUT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Two Housekeepers Happen Upon History

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
Ruby Lee of Marion, Ala., is thrilled when she gets her first real job: cleaning house for a white woman in Montgomery. But once she's settled in, a local black woman named Rosa Parks refuses to give up her seat to a white person on a city bus and starts a yearlong bus boycott that costs Ruby her job.
Finally, she finds work again. She travels to Greensboro, N.C., to wash dishes in the kitchen of a Woolworth's lunch counter. But one day a group of polite but determined black students sit down at the lunch counter and refuse to get up until they're served. Pretty soon that store is closed, and Ruby is unemployed again. Darn that civil rights movement! 
''Sheila's Day,'' in which Ruby plays a large part, is Hartford Stage's first production of the new season. It takes social upheaval much more seriously than Ruby (Ann Duquesnay) seems to, but that character's attitude does remind us, gently and with a smile, that all history is personal.
The title refers to housekeepers, often called Sheilas in South Africa, and their weekly day off, when the women get together to commiserate. In Alabama and in Zululand, it seems, the complaints have a lot in common. Duma Ndlovu, the South African man who wrote the play (with additional material by Ebony Jo-Ann), tells two parallel stories: Ruby Lee's and that of Qedusizi (Thuli Dumakude), a young woman from Soweto who gets a housecleaning job working for a white woman (played with delightful haughtiness by Carla Brothers) in Johannesburg. Qedusizi encounters employment troubles that make Ruby's look trivial.
Like Forrest Gump, the two women seem always to be around when big events are taking place. Qedusizi finds herself accidentally marching to Pretoria with countrywomen staging a protest by burning their government-issued passbooks. Unlike Forrest, the women don't benefit personally from their proximity. Both women's stories end in their witnessing a horrible, racially motivated death.
Sasha Ehlers's costume design symbolizes the show's cultural and geographical duality; she has put the cast in T-shirts, leggings and very American sneakers, topped with African-style headwear and kikois (sarong-like fabric wraps). The bare stage can and does represent both parts of the world.
''Sheila's Day,'' which Mbongeni Ngema, a South African writer, lyricist, composer and director, helped create, was first produced by the Crossroads Theater Company in New Brunswick, N.J. Crossroads and the Connecticut Theater Festival are co-presenters of this production, directed by Ricardo Khan.
A cast of 10 actresses, most of them new to Hartford Stage audiences, bring their considerable dramatic and musical skills to the production. Oddly, the hymns, gospel songs and African musical numbers -- songs like ''Just a Closer Walk With Thee'' and ''His Eyes Are on the Sparrow'' -- aren't always as moving as an audience might expect. But some cumulative effect is at work, and by the end, ''Sheila's Day'' has become deeply affecting.
''Sheila's Day,'' by Duma Ndlovu, is at Hartford Stage, Roberts Theater, Kingswood-Oxford School, West Hartford, through Aug. 15. Information: (860) 527-5151 or hartfordstage.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UPHEAVAL: Erin Cherry, left, and Thuli Dumakude in ''Sheila's Day,'' at Hartford Stage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHERRY RUBEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (88%); THEATER (88%); WOMEN (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); SONG WRITING (70%); WRITERS (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (70%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (68%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (68%); MUSIC (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



159 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4184 words

HEADLINE: Leading the Way Into Deep Water

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE; Jack Begg and Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- On March 5, 1997, an obscure federal official with a puckish grin entered a hotel ballroom here and greeted 1,000 jittery oilmen on what would prove a landmark day.
For years, fading interest in the Gulf of Mexico had punished the local economy and left Louisiana to mourn its ''Dead Sea.'' Now, rising oil prices and new technology were setting off the deep-water version of a gold rush. Interest in drilling ran so high that the official, Chris Oynes, was heading into the annual lease auction with a record number of sealed bids.
In giddier times before the bust, his predecessor presided over the auction in a jaunty red blazer, but Mr. Oynes was far too conservative for that. Or so everyone thought -- until he opened his briefcase and brought down the house with a size 46 scarlet jacket, an omen of the coming deep-water boom.
''They knew symbolically what this meant,'' Mr. Oynes said in a recent interview. ''In Louisiana terms: 'Let the good times roll.''' 
Now the gulf is reeling from the worst oil spill in United States history, after five million barrels of sludge escaped from a defiant mile-deep hole that BP finally cemented last week. Deep-water drilling has been temporarily banned. And the Minerals Management Service, the agency that led the way into the deep-water age, has been abolished, ridiculed as a pawn of the oil industry it was meant to oversee. The gulf office that Mr. Oynes ran for many years has drawn particular scorn.
The causes of the spill remain unclear, but a number of the agency's actions have drawn fire: it shortened safety and environmental reviews; overlooked flaws in the spill response plan; and ignored warnings that crucial pieces of emergency equipment, blowout preventers, were prone to fail.
The story has gained a bacchanal gloss because agency employees in Louisiana and Colorado took meals, gifts and sporting trips paid for by the industry, and several Colorado officials had sex and used drugs with industry employees. But the agency's culture was shaped by forces much bigger than small-time corruption.
For decades, Washington and Louisiana were joined in the quest for red-jacket days, and the minerals agency was expected to provide them. Washington got oil and royalty fees; Louisiana got jobs; and the agency got frequent reminders of the need to keep both happy.
Seldom do regulators work in a place so dependent on the industry they oversee. From the top of Louisiana's tallest building (One Shell Square) to the bottom of its largest aquarium (with a sunken rig), oil saturated the state's culture long before it covered its marshes. It is prized as a source of jobs and as a source of tax revenue.
While Floridians stage protests to prevent drilling, Louisianians stage a Shrimp and Petroleum Festival to ''prove that oil and water really do mix.'' When Mr. Oynes's wife, Rena, won a teaching award, it was sponsored by the American Petroleum Institute. Across South Louisiana, regulators have grown up hunting and fishing -- and working on oil rigs -- with the people they oversee.
Few people have mattered more in that world than Mr. Oynes, 63, who held top jobs in the gulf office for 21 years and outlasted 11 agency directors before resigning abruptly in May. Many branches of government have parallel figures, little-known civil servants whose knowledge and staying power lend them great sway.
Cobbled together three decades ago from rival corners of the Interior Department, the minerals service had a three-part charge: issuing leases, collecting royalties, and overseeing the dangerous work at sea. His superiors in Washington set broad policy, but Mr. Oynes, a heavyset conduit of high energy, dominated the gulf with 12-hour days and a zeal for detail. His decisions guided which drilling plans would be approved, what safety checks would be required and how the platforms would be inspected.
Raised in conservative Orange County, Calif., he shared nothing of the Mardi Gras spirit for which Louisiana was known -- only its belief in the importance of oil and its respect for the people who mined it. For years, he told associates that modern engineering made spills all but impossible and harmless if they did occur.
Since the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded on April 20, Mr. Oynes has made no public comments. But angry at what he called lampooning depictions of the agency, he recently broke his silence, offering his account of what happened on his watch. He aired many problems, but few regrets.
''I thought we had done a pretty good job of addressing the challenges that come with deep water,'' he said in an interview. ''My opinion has not changed.''
Mr. Oynes acknowledged that he had known nothing about a group of studies, some nearly a decade old, that cast doubt on the reliability of blowout preventers -- the fail-safe equipment that failed in the BP spill. He could not explain why the studies, commissioned in Washington, had not reached him.
But he bridled at what has become the dominant story line: that a heedless group of derelict bureaucrats abetted catastrophe. In Mr. Oynes's counternarrative, a dedicated staff did all it could to safely coax oil from watery depths, mindful that it creates jobs, bolsters national defense and helps keep the lights on.
''That is a very noble mission,'' he said, while emphasizing that the gulf is a special prize.
''When people came down, new directors, whatever, I would try not to insult their intelligence,'' he added. ''But I tried to make sure they understood we had a national asset they were managing.''
''I can't tell you how many times we had that conversation inside M.M.S.: doesn't the public understand energy doesn't come from a light switch?'' he said. ''It has to come from somewhere before it gets to the light switch.''
A Special Bond
If modern Louisiana history could be squeezed on a bumper sticker, this is what it would say: Louisiana Petroleum.
Or that was the message conveyed last year when Mr. Oynes joined other Interior Department officials at a hearing in New Orleans on offshore drilling. At hearings elsewhere, industry critics largely set the tone. But in New Orleans, a grandmother waited for hours to say, ''Drill, and drill vigorously.''
A school principal said the majority of his students' parents worked for the oil industry. A drilling engineer lauded the industry's safety record. ''The incident rate for a real estate agent is higher than someone working on the rigs,'' he said.
As things go in Louisiana, the engineer happened to be Mr. Oynes's best friend.
Five states border the Gulf of Mexico, but Louisiana's bond with subsea petroleum is unique. Marshes blur distinctions between drilling on land and at sea. The continental shelf slopes gently. There are no white sand beaches to protect, only river mud.
In some states, drilling has been seen as a threat to native cultures. In Cajun country, it opened a door to the middle class -- even as a typical offshore schedule (two weeks on, two weeks off) let workers still fish, hunt and farm.
''The industry didn't destroy the old culture -- it saved it,'' said Diane Austin, an anthropologist at the University of Arizona.
What it did largely destroy, through cash and cunning, was significant political opposition. Local groups have typically been weak and small -- no match for an industry that Mr. Oynes calls the ''900-pound gorilla.''
''We would issue standard notices to environmental groups, and they would never even come to a meeting,'' he said. ''Arguing against oil and gas isn't going to get them anywhere.''
As Congress debated the landmark 1978 law that governs offshore activity, Louisiana officials argued for a light federal touch.
''We have 20,000 oil wells off the coast of Louisiana, and we have been drilling out there for a quarter of a century,'' Senator J. Bennett Johnston, a Democrat, said on the Senate floor. ''The so-called danger from oil spills has simply not been proved. Not only has it not been proved, it has been disproved, and we need to get on with that drilling.''
Elsewhere in the country, the law requires companies to submit detailed proposals for offshore activities, called Drilling and Production Plans. In the gulf, it specifically forbids them. Though the minerals agency invented an alternative (a Development Operations Coordination Document), it provides for lesser levels of review.
Born of competing national concerns, the law outlines competing goals. One passage calls for the ''expeditious and orderly development'' of offshore gas and oil. The next adds a codicil: ''subject to environmental safeguards.''
While Mr. Oynes said he gave the mandates equal weight, many subordinates thought that he -- like his adoptive state -- favored one word.
''Expedite,'' he would say.
Technology Outpaces Rules
When Mr. Oynes arrived in New Orleans in 1986, Louisiana was in crisis. Oil prices had fallen by more than 60 percent in a single year, and discoveries in the gulf were dwindling. With unemployment in some parishes above 25 percent, sardonic bumper stickers entered state lore: ''Last one out, turn off the lights.''
The crash lives on in communal memory like a bout with a life-threatening disease -- a reminder of how many organs fail when the offshore heart stops pumping.
After 11 years in the Interior Department's leasing program, Mr. Oynes knew the importance of offshore oil but was still surprised at how deeply it had seeped into Louisiana society. ''It's subtle, but it's everywhere,'' he said.
His main interests outside work were church and his sons' swim meets, and both brought friendships with people in the industry. ''Maybe 20 percent of the guys in the church worked in the oil patch,'' he said. Among the other swim team parents was his friend the drilling engineer.
Economic rejuvenation came slowly but accelerated in 1994 with the launching of Shell's Auger platform, a $1.2 billion marvel capable of mining oil through 2,800 feet of water and 19,000 feet of subsea sand and rock. It came amid a series of head-turning technological advances that, along with rising oil prices and lowered federal royalty fees, suddenly made deep-water drilling lucrative. The gold rush was on.
In 1997, Mr. Oynes's red-jacket auction brought the federal government $824 million and leased a record 1,032 tracts -- numbers he can still recite as readily as his phone number. In 1998 he won a presidential award for distinguished government service.
Mr. Oynes was a lawyer, not an engineer, but he understood that the regulations lagged the technology. When Congress started its debate in the 1970s, the deepest well was less than 700 feet beneath the gulf's surface. By 2003, rigs were drilling nearly two miles down. The achievements inspired awe -- even allusions to space exploration -- but posed new safety and environmental risks that the agency had to address.
One internal problem it faced was a feeling among many staff members that swift action was impossible. One regulation had famously taken nine years to get through Washington. ''It created a tone of 'Why should we try to have an aggressive program of regs?' '' Mr. Oynes said. ''I had to become a cheerleader: 'Now guys, don't give up.' ''
Rather than issue formal regulations, the office often relied on weaker ''Notices to Lessees and Operators,'' which were supposed to explain existing rules, not announce new ones. Mr. Oynes said the office got ''very inventive'' in stretching the reach of the notices but knew the industry ''could file a lawsuit and we were vulnerable.''
That frustration was compounded by a feeling that the agency's Washington bosses cared more about leasing -- where to do it and how much money it would bring? -- than they did about the challenges of getting the oil from the sea. That was true, Mr. Oynes said, under Republican and Democratic administrations.
''It's almost a given with a director that they don't know anything about drilling,'' Mr. Oynes said. ''We would turn to each other and say, 'Headquarters isn't paying attention.' ''
Despite the impediments -- tight budgets were another -- Mr. Oynes won what felt to him like significant victories. He got money to create a fifth field office, in Lake Charles, La. He hired a dozen or more new inspectors. (After the BP spill, the Obama administration is now talking of adding hundreds.) He won small amounts of money for new training and created retention bonuses to keep staff members in the 550-person office from decamping to the oil industry, where they could sometimes double their salaries.
Many accounts of the agency's culture have cited the ''revolving door,'' suggesting that regulators pulled their punches in the hopes of landing industry jobs. A number of Mr. Oynes's senior lieutenants went to work for the industry, including his deputy, his chief of staff and heads of two of the four divisions. Two former agency directors went on to lead the industry's Washington lobbying group.
Mr. Oynes calls the criticism ''totally off base,'' saying the role-swapping was limited and played no role in the agency's culture. But he added: ''I find it pretty hard to imagine I would ever go to work for an oil company. I'm just not comfortable with that.''
He considered himself a tough cop. When he learned that Shell was burning huge volumes of natural gas it considered too costly to bring to shore -- cheating the government of royalties and wasting energy -- Mr. Oynes called federal prosecutors, who won $49 million in royalties and fines.
Chevron howled in 2003 after the agency rejected a hefty bid for a deep-water tract. But Mr. Oynes backed the staff geologists, and the tract fetched more than five times as much the following year.
''We stuck to our guns,'' he said.
One agency practice now called into question is the use of a process called categorical exclusion to excuse individual drilling plans from intensive environmental reviews. Critics say the exclusions are meant for activities with no potential for environmental harm, not drilling in the ocean floor. BP got two categorical exclusions for its ill-fated well, one for exploration and one for drilling.
''What's missing when you do a categorical exclusion is the chance to consider alternative techniques,'' said Kieran Suckling, executive director of the Center for Biological Diversity, which is one of several groups suing the agency over the practice. ''You say there is only one option -- the preferred option of the oil industry.''
Agency officials say the sheer volume of gulf activity left them little choice: they issued up to 1,000 drilling permits each year, and environmental impact statements can take up to two years. Instead, they examined the safety and environmental issue posed by the drilling in wholesale fashion, before conducting the annual lease sales.
Decades had passed since the last big spill. Mr. Oynes saw no reason to change.
Tension Between Factions
As the gulf office adapted to the deep-water age, it was riven by a tribal split: engineers versus environmental scientists.
The engineers were action-oriented and confident; they trusted machines. The scientists were deliberative and academic; they worried about what they might not know. Engineers typically had local roots. Scientists often came from out of state. The engineers called their rivals the ''free thinkers down on the third floor.''
''We had huge conflicts,'' said Hammond Eve, who ran the environmental division for eight years before retiring in 2004.
Both sides knew which division held the power. The law gave the head of field operations -- the lead engineer -- the authority to approve exploration and drilling plans. To win changes, the environmental scientists had to work through him.
When tensions arose between the factions, Mr. Oynes cast himself as the neutral broker, but subordinates sensed where his instincts lay. ''From my perspective, we can't sit here and talk about it forever,'' he said. ''We have to get on with things.'' The result was a culture that favored trust over doubt, saying yes over saying no.
One day in a staff meeting Mr. Eve raised a question: with wells being sunk at ever-greater depths, what are the chances of a blowout, a catastrophic eruption?
Mr. Oynes said the answer would come from the head of field operations. ''And later on the answer came back that it was impossible,'' Mr. Eve said. ''They said the blowout preventer will take care of it.'' (That head of field operations, Donald C. Howard, was fired in 2007 for accepting gifts from a drilling company, and pleaded guilty to lying on his ethics form.)
Mr. Oynes expressed a similarly confident view in a 2003 interview with Tyler Priest, an oral historian at the University of Houston. Referring to a giant spill in Santa Barbara, Calif., in 1969, Mr. Oynes said, ''You could almost say it is impossible for that to happen again.'' Given modern cleanup technology, he added, ''Even if you had a spill, how much harm is it going to do?''
Mr. Eve calls the comment ''absurd.''
''Chris shaped the program around that premise,'' he said. ''The premise was wrong, and therefore the program was wrong.''
He said Mr. Oynes, seeking to increase production, had fostered an office culture that was ''pro-industry to the point of being blind.''
Others saw his doggedness in a fight over seismic testing. The industry uses the tests to locate oil, but the high-decibel blasts can harm marine mammals. To authorize them, the minerals agency needed permission from the National Marine Fisheries Service.
When the fisheries agency declined to give it, the minerals group proceeded anyway -- temporarily, minerals officials said, while the agencies continued negotiations. The fisheries service wanted the gulf office to require independent spotters aboard the seismic testing boats, with the authority to shut them down. Mr. Oynes grew livid, calling the idea costly and impractical and saying the boat crews could be trained as scouts instead.
''He was screaming at the top of his lungs,'' said a former agency scientist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he fears government reprisals. ''He said, ''N.M.F.S. is trying to shut down oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico!' ''
The standoff with the fisheries service has now lasted eight years. Four environmental groups filed a suit against the minerals service in June, saying the seismic testing violates the law.
The clash between the agency's environmentalists and engineers dominated a project meant to guide the agency into the deep-water age, a two-year study of new risks called an environmental assessment. Published in 2000, it framed the agency's approach for the next decade. It reads like a document at war with itself.
It counted 151 well blowouts in the previous 25 years, about one every two months. It said a quarter had led to spills. It questioned the effectiveness of chemical dispersants and cited the difficulties of drilling relief wells. In noting that a deep-water blowout could take up to four months to control, it all but forecast the BP disaster: ''Of particular concern is the ability to stop a blowout once it has begun.''
Then it quickly silenced its own alarm bells, casting spills as a ''very low probability event'' and noting that companies had ''speculated'' that deep-water blowouts might cap themselves (because of loose sediment on the ocean floor). It saw no need for new safeguards or an environmental impact statement, a more rigorous review that would have included public debate.
Why not do one, just to be safe?
''I'm sure industry would have been very nervous,'' Mr. Oynes said, explaining that it took ''some hand-holding'' just to do the assessment. ''If you start talking about an E.I.S., their alarm bells start going off a bit stronger: 'Oh my God, what is going on here?' ''
Still, he said, had the study been necessary, the agency would have done it.
A Bureaucratic Bungle
For most of his career, Mr. Oynes, like his agency, flew beneath the public radar. But in 2006 he was dragged before Congress for his role in a costly mistake. For him, and for the minerals service, it forecast troubles to come.
To encourage production, Congress had passed a law in 1995 suspending royalties on deep-water tracts unless oil prices exceeded a certain threshold. But the minerals agency somehow dropped the threshold provision from two years of contracts. When prices unexpectedly rose, the companies pocketed billions of dollars.
The inspector general called the episode a ''jaw-dropping example of bureaucratic bungling.'' While he placed much of the fault on the Washington staff, two industry representatives recalled telling Mr. Oynes about the omission. Mr. Oynes testified that he did not recall the exchange.
The incident has trailed Mr. Oynes ever since, but most accounts omit the coda. Congress drafted the law so poorly that the federal courts invalidated the thresholds for the entire five-year program, at a cost of up to $60 billion. Congress had derided Mr. Oynes while committing the greater mistake.
For Mr. Oynes and members of his inner circle, the episode only fed a notion they had of themselves as stoic sentinels on the petroleum frontier -- forced to take flak unfairly, but there to get things done.
A year after his Congressional thrashing, Mr. Oynes was promoted in 2007 to a top Washington job. He felt like he was capping a storybook career. The Dead Sea had come to life, technology had made quantum leaps and there had not been a single major spill.
''It felt very good,'' he said.
Last year the Offshore Energy Center, a nonprofit group in Galveston supported by the oil and gas industry, inducted the minerals agency into its Hall of Fame for raising safety and environmental standards ''in cooperation with the petroleum industry.'' The minerals service gave out safety awards, too. Last year one went to BP.
On the morning of April 21, Mr. Oynes got an e-mail saying that 11 people were dead. The news got worse from there. Nothing would stop the toxic geyser about a mile below the sea. The blowout preventer had failed.
Soon, news accounts focused on a trail of studies, a decade long, that had questioned the reliability of the devices. One, commissioned by the Washington office of the minerals agency, reported a ''grim snapshot'' that ''illustrates the lack of preparedness.'' Mr. Oynes is still trying to understand why he knew nothing about them.
Time magazine placed him on its ''dirty dozen'' list of people most responsible for the spill. In New Orleans, The Times-Picayune reprised his role in the blown royalties affair. A congressman hailed his planned departure as a ''an opportunity to begin anew.''
Soon the inspector general's office released a report, long in the making, about the agency's Lake Charles office. It depicted an ethics-free zone, where inspectors routinely took industry gifts and did favors for industry friends.
They went hunting and fishing on the companies' tab, accepted company meals, went skeet shooting at the companies' expense, and in one case flew on a private plane to watch Louisiana State University in the Peach Bowl. (One employee said he knew it was wrong, but did it because he was a ''big L.S.U. fan.'') One inspector negotiated a job with a company while inspecting its platforms.
''Obviously we're all oil industry,'' said Larry Williamson, the district manager. ''We're all from the same part of the country. Almost all our inspectors have worked for oil companies out on these same platforms. They grew up in the same towns.''
On May 12, the administration announced that the minerals service was being abolished. It would be split into three agencies: one to issue leases, one to collect royalties and one to supervise offshore operations.
After decades of quiescence, Louisianians are suddenly appearing at oil and gas protests. But what they object to is the federal government's six-month ban on deep-water drilling. About 10,000 people gathered last month in the Cajundome in Lafayette as Gov. Bobby Jindal, a Republican, urged them to ''defend our way of life.''
Two federal courts in Louisiana invalidated the ban (though the administration created a new one). While the accident ''is an unprecedented, sad, ugly and inhuman disaster,'' wrote Judge Martin Feldman of Federal District Court, ''oil and gas production is quite simply elemental to gulf communities.'' He said halting would have ''immeasurable effects'' on the economy.
At the Aquarium of the Americas, a beckoning riverfront attraction beside the French Quarter, curious crowds file through the Gulf of Mexico exhibit. The first thing they see is a sunken oil platform, with fish swarming about its barnacled legs. Dreamy music completes the message: symbiosis and serenity.
The Audubon Institute, which runs the aquarium, is the city's most prominent nature group, but the exhibit talks about oil as much as it talks about fish. It cites the taxes the industry pays, the number of jobs it creates and the utility of ''a special fluid called drilling mud.''
No one could accuse the group of distancing itself from its sponsors. A large sign credits six major oil companies for sponsoring the exhibit, led by BP.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a rally in Houma, La., in June, workers opposed a ban on deep-water drilling imposed after the BP oil spill in the gulf. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS GRAYTHEN/GETTY IMAGES)
Chris Oynes (A1)
UNDERWATER GOLD: Top, bidders look over plot maps in New Orleans in 2006 before the Minerals Management Service sale for blocks of offshore oil and natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico. Above, Chris Oynes, who for 21 years held top jobs in the gulf office of the minerals agency, which was disbanded in the wake of the BP oil spill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP, LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ABOVE, CARLOS JAVIER SANCHEZ/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
MARINE MARRIAGE: The Shrimp and Petroleum Festival is to ''prove that oil and water really do mix.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK VARTOOGIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
STILL CONTRIBUTING: Even oil rigs no longer in service can be of use, like this one that has become an artificial coral reef. And some believe that specimens collected from the rig might prove to have pharmaceutical value. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMES-PICAYUNE/LANDOV)
Chris Oynes conducting an offshore lease auction in 2006. (A13) GRAPHIC: Trouble in Deep Water: A history of the Minerals Management Service, the agency charged with overseeing the oil and gas industry, which was abolished this year. (Source: Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement)
 CHARTS: Oil Boom: As deepwater exploration and drilling grew in the mid-1990s, the Gulf of Mexico became increasingly important to the oil industry. (Source: Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); OIL SPILLS (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); ROYALTIES (76%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (73%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010



160 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1564 words

PERSON: Tony Judt 

HEADLINE: Tony Judt, Polemical Chronicler of History and Government, Is Dead at 62

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Tony Judt, the author of ''Postwar,'' a monumental history of Europe after World War II, and a public intellectual known for his sharply polemical essays on American foreign policy, the state of Israel and the future of Europe, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 62.
The death was announced in a statement from New York University, where he had taught for many years. The cause was complications of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, which he learned he had in September 2008. In a matter of months the disease left him paralyzed and able to breathe only with mechanical assistance, but he continued to lecture and write.
''In effect,'' Mr. Judt wrote in an essay published in January in The New York Review of Books, ''A.L.S. constitutes progressive imprisonment without parole.'' 
Mr. Judt (pronounced Jutt), who was British by birth and education but who taught at American universities for most of his career, began as a specialist in postwar French intellectual history, and for much of his life he embodied the idea of the French-style engaged intellectual.
An impassioned left-wing Zionist as a teenager, he shed his faith in agrarian socialism and Marxism early on and became, as he put it, a ''universalist social democrat'' with a deep suspicion of left-wing ideologues, identity politics and the emerging role of the United States as the world's sole superpower.
His developing interest in Europe as a whole, including the states of the former Eastern Bloc, led him to take an active role in the developing Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia; it culminated in ''Postwar: A History of Europe Since 1945'' (2005), a sweeping, richly detailed survey embracing countries from Britain to the Balkans that, in the words of one reviewer, has ''the pace of a thriller and the scope of an encyclopedia.''
Mr. Judt was perhaps best known for his essays on politics and current affairs in journals like The New York Review of Books, The New Republic, The Times Literary Supplement and The London Review of Books.
''He had the unusual ability to see and convey the big picture while, at the same time, going to the heart of the matter,'' said Mark Lilla, who teaches intellectual history at Columbia University. ''Most academics do neither -- they float in between. But Tony was able to talk about the big picture and explain why it matters now.''
Tony Robert Judt was born in the East End of London on Jan. 2, 1948, and grew up in Putney. His parents, although secular and apolitical Jews, encouraged him to join the Labor Zionist youth organization Dror as a way to meet friends. He became a fervent convert to the cause, spending several summers working on a kibbutz in Israel and serving as the organization's national secretary from 1965 to 1967.
''I was the ideal recruit: articulate, committed and uncompromisingly ideologically conformist,'' he wrote in an autobiographical sketch for The New York Review of Books in February.
After he passed the entrance examinations to King's College, Cambridge, he volunteered as an auxiliary with the Israeli Defense Forces during the Six-Day War, acting as an interpreter for other volunteers in the newly conquered Golan Heights. There he lost faith in the Zionist mission and began to see Israel as a malign occupying power whose self-definition as a Jewish state, he later argued, made it ''an anachronism.''
Mr. Judt returned to Britain disabused and highly skeptical of the radical political currents swirling around him at Cambridge, where he earned a bachelor's degree in history from King's College in 1969. After studying for a year at the Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris, he returned to King's College and earned a doctorate in 1972.
His dissertation, on the French socialist party's re-emergence after World War I, was published in France as ''La Reconstruction du Parti Socialiste: 1921-1926'' (1976). In 1979 he followed up with ''Socialism in Provence, 1871-1914: A Study in the Origins of the Modern French Left,'' and in 1986 he published ''Marxism and the French Left: Studies on Labour and Politics in France, 1830-1981.''
These relatively specialist works led to two interpretive studies of French postwar intellectual life: ''Past Imperfect: French Intellectuals, 1944-1956'' (1994) and ''The Burden of Responsibility: Blum, Camus, Aron and the French Twentieth Century'' (1998).
Casting his lot with the nonideological liberals, like Raymond Aron and Albert Camus, who dared to criticize the Soviet Union and third-world revolutionary movements, he subjected Sartre and others to a withering critique that came as a shock to many French and American intellectuals. His target, he wrote, was ''the uneasy conscience and moral cowardice of an intellectual generation.''
Fluidly written, with a strong narrative drive and an insistent, polemical edge, both books established Mr. Judt as a historian whose ability to see the present in the past gave his work an unusual air of immediacy. Increasingly he inclined toward free-ranging inquiry across disciplines, pursuing a wide range of his interests reflected in the essay collection ''Reappraisals: Reflections on the Forgotten Twentieth Century'' (2008).
''A historian also has to be an anthropologist, also has to be a philosopher, also has to be a moralist, also has to understand the economics of the period he is writing about,'' he told the online magazine Historically Speaking in 2006. ''Though they are often arbitrary, disciplinary boundaries certainly exist. Nevertheless, the historian has to learn to transcend them in order to write intelligently.''
In 1987, after teaching at Cambridge, the University of California at Berkeley and Oxford, he began teaching at N.Y.U. There, in 1995, he helped found the Remarque Institute with a bequest from Paulette Goddard, the widow of the writer Erich Maria Remarque. Under his directorship, it became an important international center for the study of Europe, past and present. His skepticism about the future of the European Union found expression in a sharply polemical, pamphlet-length book, ''A Grand Illusion?: An Essay on Europe'' (1996).
His first two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the dance critic Jennifer Homans, and their two sons, Daniel and Nicholas.
His views on Israel made Mr. Judt an increasingly polarizing figure. He placed himself in the midst of a bitter debate when, in 2003, he outlined a one-state solution to the Israel-Palestinian problem in The New York Review of Books, proposing that Israel accept a future as a secular, bi-national state in which Jews and Arabs enjoyed equal status.
In 2006, a scheduled talk at the Polish Consulate in Manhattan was abruptly canceled for reasons later hotly disputed, but apparently under pressure, explicit or implicit, from the Anti-Defamation League and the American Jewish Committee.
Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, told The New York Observer at the time that Mr. Judt, on Israel, ''has become precisely the kind of intellectual whom his intellectual heroes would have despised.'' Mr. Judt's name had been removed from the masthead of the magazine, where he had been a contributing editor, after his article on the one-state solution.
Mr. Judt expressed some surprise that he should be defined by his position on one issue and expressed distaste for public controversy, while showing an unmistakable relish for the cut and thrust of public debate.
''Today I'm regarded outside New York University as a looney-tunes leftie self-hating Jewish communist; inside the university I'm regarded as a typical old-fashioned white male liberal elitist,'' he told The Guardian of London in January 2010. ''I like that. I'm on the edge of both, it makes me feel comfortable.''
His discovery in 2008 that he had Lou Gehrig's disease did not deter him from his work. He continued to write and lecture.
Last October, wrapped in a blanket and sitting in a wheelchair with a breathing device attached to his nose, Mr. Judt spoke about social democracy before an audience of 700 at N.Y.U. He turned that lecture into a small book, ''Ill Fares the Land,'' published in March by Penguin Press.
During the lecture, his last public appearance, he told the audience that some of his American friends felt that seeing him talk about A.L.S. would be uplifting. But he added, ''I'm English, and we don't do 'uplifting.' ''
He did write about his illness, however. In an essay in The New York Review of Books in January, he wrote, ''In contrast to almost every other serious or deadly disease, one is thus left free to contemplate at leisure and in minimal discomfort the catastrophic progress of one's own deterioration.''
History remained uppermost in his mind, though. In ''Ill Fares the Land,'' he turned his attention to a problem he regarded as acute: the loss of faith in social democracy, and the power of the state to do good, that had brought prosperity to so many European countries after World War II.
''The historian's task is not to disrupt for the sake of it, but it is to tell what is almost always an uncomfortable story and explain why the discomfort is part of the truth we need to live well and live properly,'' he told Historically Speaking. ''A well-organized society is one in which we know the truth about ourselves collectively, not one in which we tell pleasant lies about ourselves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The author Tony Judt. His discovery in 2008 that he had Lou Gehrig's disease did not deter him from writing and lecturing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN R. RIFKIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LIBERALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); PARALYSIS (71%); BOOK REVIEWS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



161 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY CRITIC; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Proceed With Caution: Driving Schools Ahead

BYLINE: By ARIEL KAMINER. 
E-mail: citycritic@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Driving anywhere is a risk. In New York it's a dare. Choosing the city as the place where you learn to drive borders on reckless. So what is climbing into a car with someone who has no idea what she's doing, then guiding her into heavy traffic while pedestrians dart in and out of view, bicycles weave in and out of lanes, subways rattle overhead and taxi drivers decide fading yellow is the new green?
A job description for driving instructors, who ride shotgun with people who've never been behind the wheel, or worse, people who perhaps never should have been. People like me. 
I learned to drive on the late side, in college, and took to it with the zeal of the converted. But after too many close calls, I made the most civic-minded decision of my life: I hung up the keys and let my license expire.
Inspired by a colleague's heroic battle with the Department of Motor Vehicles, however, I recently got a learner's permit and started calling around to driving schools for a second crack at the open road. Here's a curious economic indicator: at a time when the rest of the service industry is begging for customers, the first 20 or so schools I found were booked solid. For weeks.
I managed to find an open slot at the Ferrari Driving School, in Astoria -- a buzzing operation with more than a dozen uniformed employees -- and an instructor named Roberto took me out for my first drive in more than 15 years. On crowded city streets, with cars and people going every which way.
He did not seem nervous. But should I have been? It's not just the instructors who put their lives in the hands of a stranger. I knew as little about his qualifications as he knew about mine. And yet there I was, cruising down Steinway Street, hands at 10 and 2.
''All your skills are excellent, 100 percent,'' Roberto said at the end of a 45-minute session, which cost $28. ''I recommend 10 lessons.'' Before the words had left his mouth, he knew he had overshot. ''Could be less, that's fine,'' he said, jotting down a six instead. As I unhooked my seat belt, he bargained himself down further. ''You take a couple more lessons, you'll be ready for your test.''
In Borough Park, the Brooklyn Driving School operates out of an impossibly dingy storefront that smells of toner cartridges and stale coffee. Signs bear inspirational messages like ''You are light in the Lord'' and ''Retire early ... die now!'' Danny, my instructor, pointed to a guy in the back seat of his car and told me I'd be driving him home.
''Hey back-seat guy,'' I said, ''doesn't it make you nervous that your driver doesn't know how to drive?''
''No,'' he answered, ''I trust Danny.''
Everyone was feeling pretty trusting that day as I drove through crowded intersections under elevated subway tracks and Danny checked his cellphone for messages. I asked him how I was doing. ''To be honest with you? Pretty good,'' he said. He suggested one additional lesson, on the highway -- until I mentioned that I didn't yet have a license. He upped it to a six-lesson package, which includes a car and instructor on the day of the road test ($289).
Instead, I headed to the Globex Driving School, southeast of Prospect Park. It looks like a place where yellowing mimeographs go to die, but my instructor, Mr. Scales, was full of life. The day before, he had given someone a highway lesson that ended at a beach, where he promptly jumped in the surf.
''This is one step up from a Flintstone-mobile,'' he said as we got into a decrepit Oldsmobile with a humiliating STUDENT DRIVER sign on top. ''Yabadabadoo!'' He said yabadabadoo a few more times, too.
A former drug counselor and Marine, Mr. Scales told me about another student who, under his guidance, went from gang member to UPS driver. It was an inspiring story, but I was coming up fast on the Grand Army Plaza traffic circle. ''Um, anyone want to tell me what to do here?'' I asked, drifting into another driver's lane. ''Sorry, brother!'' Mr. Scales called out the window, flashing a big smile. ''That's my fault!''
Forty-five enjoyable if somewhat chaotic minutes later, he prescribed three more lessons ($99).
In Flushing, Queens, Lenny -- an All Seasons Auto School instructor with a gently Borscht Belt manner -- picked me up and began waxing philosophical on the matter of caution.
''What's a stop sign?'' he asked. ''It's a piece of metal. Is it magic? Can it stop someone who's having a heart attack? A stroke? A seizure? Can it stop someone who's drinking? Who's smoking weed?'' He paused to pantomime the smoking of weed. Then he continued: ''Who's smoking crack? Who's ...'' and so on. I put on my left-turn signal and drove onto the Clearview Expressway.
Lenny kept up a steady patter of Seinfeldian shtick -- about the heat, about green algae, about my driving. (''You have catlike reflexes,'' he said. ''Like a cat! Ariel!'') Actually I was doing much better than I had been. All his chatter, all those distractions -- for the first time, I felt like a real driver.
Lenny, whose session had cost $32, said I didn't need any more lessons; I was ready for my road test. But he thought I might need something else. ''Can I get you a coffee?'' he asked. ''A bagel? A pastry? A nice buttered roll? A toasted bialy?''
As he dropped me off at the subway, the last driving instructor I may ever have made a parting suggestion: ''A half a bagel! I'll wrap it up in tinfoil!''
Wish me luck on the exam. I won't be taking it anywhere near New York City.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRIVERS' EDUCATION: From left, a student driver car outside Ferrari Driving School in Queens, a sign on a truck outside the school, the Globex Driving School in Brooklyn and the Freeway Driving School in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRIVER EDUCATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE DRIVING SCHOOLS (90%); DRIVERS LICENSES (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (75%); EARLY RETIREMENT (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (51%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



162 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2056 words

HEADLINE: Finding New Life (and Profit) in Doomed Trees

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE W. CHEEK

 BODY:
SEATTLE
THE wooden kitchen bar in the suburban home of Richard and Donna Majer has a canyonlike crack ripping right down its middle, which is exactly what the couple cherish most about it. It's not just furniture -- it's a story, complete with a moral.
''As I spend time with it, I see the beauty of the hard life the tree had,'' Mrs. Majer says. ''And it helps me find the beauty in my own life's scars.''
The crack occurred three years ago in a storm that mortally wounded the towering oak in the Majers's backyard. It was a family member; Mr. Majer had planted it with his father 53 years earlier. Devastated, the Majers consulted an arborist, who said yes, it had to come down, but that there were a couple of guys in Seattle they should talk to. 
The guys were Seth Meyer and John Wells. The pair harvest local urban trees doomed by development, disease or storm damage, and turn them into custom furniture, each piece a distinct botanical narrative.
Their business, started four years ago, bears all the markers that would seem to point toward collapse and extinction in a recessionary economy. It's founded on idealism and emotion. It's riddled with huge and unavoidable inefficiencies. And it tenders a high-end product that asks buyers to take risks and have faith.
Yet the company, Meyer Wells, has thrived. It's been profitable from the start, Mr. Wells says, and revenue has grown annually; it reached $850,000 last year, and the business partners say they're on track to top $1 million this year. There are now nine employees, and the furniture commissions have blown well beyond suburban kitchens to high-visibility clients like Starbucks and the University of Washington.
''I think our idealism is meeting with the demand to make buildings greener,'' Mr. Wells says.
Michael Verchot, director of the Business and Economic Development Center at the University of Washington, says his research backs up that theory. ''We've conducted two small-business surveys in Washington State in the past four months, and we're seeing that companies that have a green product are the ones that are increasing sales,'' he says. ''I can't speak to the whole country, but our surveys here are telling us that green will be here forever. It's a permanent shift.''
The Northwest has become one of the strongest markets for nurturing innovative, sustainable businesses, says Alan Durning, executive director of the Sightline Institute, a nonprofit research group here. ''In the mental geography of the American mind, the Northwest stands for nature,'' he says. ''It attracts and retains folks who have a strong affinity for our natural heritage.''
A heart of green is no guarantee of success, of course, even in Seattle. Such enterprises can be as fleeting as ripples on a pond -- and Mr. Durning says they often fail for the same reasons others do: they race too far ahead of the market or fail to control costs. It's especially challenging for green businesses to figure out what environmental values consumers want, and what they will pay extra for, he says.
Janet Pomeroy, board president of the San Francisco-based Green Chamber of Commerce, says the green businesses that do well nationally are those that have an authentic story to sell.
Meyer Wells had those elements from the start. It understood Seattle's environmental gestalt, and had a product that could spin its own story. Although custom furniture builders are as abundant as mushrooms in the Pacific Northwest, Meyer Wells staked out a distinct territory: the big slab, furniture that could bring indoors the raw power of the environment rather than a builder's vision.
Mr. Wells says the company also saw trajectories in culture and business worldwide -- particularly the locavore and slow-food movements -- that suggested the time was ripe for their venture. ''We're starting a slow-wood movement,'' he says.
In line with typically idealistic sustainable businesses, they're trying the whole bouillabaisse of green values, from using nontoxic, water-based wood finishes to offering better-than-average employee benefits. ''For a small company, they work hard to make us comfortable,'' says Keiku Toutonghi, its one-woman finishing operation. ''This is the first place I've gotten health benefits and paid vacations.''
Its business model does not depend on tree lovers' anguished calls, but increasingly on networks with other businesses and design professionals. Tutta Bella, a high-end pizzeria chain, asked Meyer Wells to build a 30-foot-long chef's table from a century-old city park elm that had split in a windstorm. The table helps the restaurant establish its brand, the owner, Joe Fugere, says. ''It fits our culture of sustainability and authenticity,'' he says.
Despite the increasingly ambitious restaurant and boardroom tables -- the latter ironically encrusted with electronic connectivity under the rustic slabs -- Mr. Meyer and Mr. Wells seem not to have snipped the emotional roots that led them into the business: a love of raw wood. Mr. Majer recalls the day Mr. Meyer came out to assess their doomed oak. ''It's hard to explain,'' he says, ''but we knew that Seth could see the soul of that tree.''
MEYER WELLS works out of an 8,000-square-foot, high-ceiling building four miles north of downtown that once housed a Navy swimming pool.
Soft northern light floods in through clerestory windows; bare cedar boughs hang from the open ceiling trusses to cleanse any lingering negative energy from the lumber that enters and the furniture that leaves -- a Native American belief that Mr. Wells embraces. A stunning indoor alley is formed by towering slabs of hardwoods the partners have salvaged: oak, walnut, black locust, bigleaf and silver maples, cherry and madrona.
''People who buy furniture here are adventurers,'' says Mr. Meyer. ''They see the tree and get to be part of the process. They have to have an adventurous spirit, they have to be patient, and they have to trust. There's an element of risk.''
Those adventurers might be surprised to learn that Mr. Meyer, 40, is a high-school dropout. He radiates a discerning obsession with the details of design and the philosophy of craftsmanship. ''Some people drop out of school because they can't cut it,'' says Mr. Wells. ''Others drop out because school doesn't cut it for them. That's Seth.''
Mr. Meyer says he grew up in a house ''with a lot of aesthetic awareness.''
''My stepfather was a furniture maker,'' he adds. ''There was always a lot of discussion about beauty and craft.'' Everything in the built environment was up for critique. ''We'd be driving along and someone would say: 'Look at the back end of that car. What a missed opportunity!' ''
Mr. Wells is 45, coolly cerebral and stuffed with education. Mr. Meyer describes him as the optimistic force in the partnership, the one who argues for the new tool or venture and sustains the faith that it all will work out. He has a bachelor's degree in English from the College of Wooster in Ohio, and another in industrial design from the Rhode Island School of Design. His resume is also flocked with sawdust. In high school he made a Chippendale desk that scored second in a statewide shop-class competition in North Carolina.
Like Mr. Meyer, he once ran a one-man custom furniture shop. The two met at a mutual friend's dinner party, worked on a couple of projects together, then decided to form a new company.
Now in production is a large dining table from two storm-felled red elms. At this point, the slabs are propped against a wall, notes and lines chalked on them. A notation beside a two-foot-long crack specifies, ''OPEN.'' The crack will be cleaned up and stabilized, but not filled or hidden. ''I see a bird in it, maybe a heron,'' Mr. Meyer says, admiring its form. The slabs will be mated not with ruler-straight joints, but with painstakingly curved cuts in line with the grain patterns.
He suddenly becomes a tour guide to a whole geography embedded in the wood -- ''islands'' and ''cathedrals'' in the grain. ''I'm looking to see how the grain of one board flows into the next so that the composition feels harmonious,'' he says. ''In every piece, I'm looking for some kind of rhythm and balance. It's an intuitive process, not something with a set of rules I could ever write down.''
If there's one rule in the shop, it's this: Respect the tree's narrative -- including the chapters about its hard urban life. Mr. Meyer once found a steel snippet embedded in a beautiful cherry slab, perhaps a remnant of a nail used to hammer a ''lost cat'' sign to the tree. He left it in place, a piece of the story.
Nearly all of their pieces feature the trendy ''live edge'' -- an edge of the slab left unmilled to celebrate the topography of the tree trunk. The technique today can be accused of being a cliche, but nature still provides a universe of forms and textures to admire. Some edges seem to ripple with geologic strata; some display miniature badlands of canyons and ridges. The Meyer Wells philosophy is to impose as little human design as possible.
The timber rolls in through motley channels. Some local arborists are plugged in and know when to call. One day, Mr. Meyer was driving near a Seattle lot that was to be the site of a new apartment building. A sprawling bigleaf maple arrested him.
''I had to make several calls, but I finally got to the demolition contractor,'' Mr. Meyer recalls. ''He said, 'Oh yeah, we're just going to take it to the dump.' '' As usual, Meyer Wells took the timber for nothing, but the cost of trucking it to the company's yard is typically $500 for an urban tree salvage.
Although the designs are minimalist, the costs add up -- for drying, milling, design, joining the component pieces and finishing. Coffee and dining tables mostly range from $3,000 to $10,000, while runwaylike conference tables can easily hit $20,000.
Mr. Wells says they essentially use a cost-plus pricing model, but because each piece -- and each tree's constellation of problems -- is different, ''sometimes we do well at the pricing, and sometimes we don't.''
''But it all seems to average out,'' he adds, ''and we're getting better at it.''
Where Mr. Meyer still loves to ponder the expressive possibilities of a crack in a slab, Mr. Wells now seems propelled more by the big-ticket issue of sustainability. ''I really believe a designer can make better choices, and that can influence people and move us in a direction that's more sustainable,'' he says. ''That's what I've chosen to do, and I think it's what's made us a successful business.''
SUSTAINABLE furniture isn't recession-proof. The company's residential business shrank in the last two years, but increases in corporate commissions more than made up the difference, Mr. Wells said. Now the residential orders are wrenching back up, and Mr. Wells remains a dogged optimist.
''People buy what they believe is right for them to buy,'' he says. ''If there are options available that fit better with their values, they will buy those options.''
The business's current challenge is in remaining faithful to its roots. Ms. Pomeroy of the Green Chamber of Commerce notes that one of the universal hazards for green businesses is trying too hard to uphold all their ideals while the gritty realities of everyday economics gnaw away at them. Sometimes, she says, they fail to understand that fully incorporating their values would mean changing the world's economic systems.
In fact, Meyer Wells is trying to save increasingly large chunks of the world. Early this year, it started a subsidiary venture, Green Tree Mill, that will extend its reach into Puget Sound's surrounding forests, harvesting and milling trees that the larger sawmills don't want. Instead of being turned directly into custom furniture, this lumber will be marketed directly to builders.
''I have sleepless nights,'' Mr. Wells acknowledges. ''The mill is pushing us to a new level of risk, with a potentially higher level of reward.''
Mr. Meyer seems to crave equilibrium more than growth, and longs for more time to put his hands on a fallen tree and massage its natural beauty.
''We're faced with the not unsatisfying challenge of injecting efficiency into an essentially creative process,'' he says. ''From the classic viewpoint of American business, it's probably a fool's errand. But hey, so far we're making it work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Seth Meyer, left, and John Wells started a green business that makes custom furniture from trees that fall to development, disease or storms. (BU1)
 At work on a table, above, at Meyer Wells. A 30-foot chef's table, right, was built from an elm tree that fell in a Seattle park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); GREEN MARKET (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



163 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Little as They Try, Students Can't Get a D Here

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
MOUNT OLIVE, N.J. -- Who wants to pay for ''D''-quality plumbing? Fly the skies with a ''D''-rated pilot? Settle for a ''D'' restaurant?
Exactly. 
The way the Mount Olive school district sees it, its students should not be getting by with D's on their report cards, either. This fall, there will no longer be any D's, only A's, B's, C's and F's.
''D's are simply not useful in society,'' said Larrie Reynolds, the Mount Olive superintendent, who led the campaign against D's as a way to raise the bar and motivate students to work harder. ''It's a throwaway grade. No one wants to hire a D-anything, so why would we have D-students and give them credit for it?''
The no-D policy, which was adopted by the school board last week, has led to a flurry of Facebook messages from students calling it the worst idea ever, and has been debated on soccer fields and around swimming pools in this suburban township in northwestern New Jersey. Even some teachers have expressed concerns that it may result in more students failing.
''I really don't like it,'' said Chris Radler, 13, who is entering ninth grade; he said it was unfair and would increase the pressure on students. ''If you're a little bit less than a C, but not quite an F, you're still going to fail. Some kids aren't at that level yet. They aren't able to get that upper grade.''
But parents like Christine Priest, a mother of six, applaud the new policy for reinforcing a message that they have long taught at home: D's are not good enough. ''With my kids, we always told them a D is an F,'' she said. ''D just wasn't enough of an effort.''
Under the old system, students could pass with a 65 -- 389 of the 1,500 students at Mount Olive High had a ''D'' on their final report cards in June -- but now anything lower than a 70 will be considered failure.
While few high schools have banned D's outright as Mount Olive has, some have sought to tamp down grade inflation by quietly tightening their standards over the years. Several New Jersey high schools, for instance, have raised the minimum for D's to 70, which is traditionally the C-minus range, with anything below deemed an F.
Mount Olive, an above-average school in a middle-class community, is developing a support system to help students meet the tougher grading standard. When students receive a failing grade on a test, a paper or a homework assignment in the future, they will have three days to repeat the work for a C, and their parents will be notified by phone or e-mail.
Students who continue to fail will be placed on a ''watch list'' to receive extra-help classes, as well as tutoring from other students. If they need to make up a failed course, they will be given the option of attending an evening school, known as ''Sunset Academy,'' that will charge a fee of $150 per class.
The total cost of these support efforts to the district is expected to be less than $10,000, school officials said.
Max Werner, 17, an A-student whose father, Mark, is president of the school board, said he and his friends liked the no-D policy because no one should be satisfied with such a low mark. ''People are going to have to try harder,'' he said. ''It's not like a nice college is going to see all D's on a report card and want to accept that student.''
Dr. Reynolds said he used a similar grading policy -- ''A, B, or do it over'' -- when teaching college classes in Wichita, Kan., in the late 1990s. About half of his students in those classes had to rewrite their initial papers, he recalled, but eventually nearly everyone was turning in work that merited an A or B. ''I have never given less than a B,'' he said.
In summer school last week, 79 Mount Olive High students were repeating classes they had failed during the year. Mark Fiedorczyk, the summer school principal, said he expected to see an increase next summer because of the no-D policy.
Still, Mr. Fiedorczyk, who teaches seventh-grade science during the year, said the higher standard was just what some students needed. In June, he handed out D's to a half-dozen students, all of whom, he said, were capable of C's if they had tried harder. Instead, they had skipped homework and projects, and showed up unprepared for tests.
''I have kids who walk the borderline,'' he said. ''They know it. They admit it. They calculate what they need to get the D.''
At which, another teacher joked: ''Then they'll turn around and say they can't do math.''
For Aphrodite Georgakopoulos, 16, the no-D policy means she will have to work a lot harder to avoid summer school again. She is repeating world history and Algebra 2 after getting lazy about assignments or just giving up in frustration, she said.
''It's not like I can't do it; it's just that I won't push myself,'' she said. ''I don't know why. I need someone to be constantly on top of me, making sure I do everything.''
Down the hallway, Sean Robinson, 17, who is retaking Spanish, said he hoped that students would feel better about themselves in a D-free school, and that Mount Olive's higher standard would raise its profile in the region.
''Normally, I just wouldn't try, but I feel like if I did badly, I'd bring down my school's G.P.A.,'' he said. ''My mom will be happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new policy means Aphrodite Georgakopoulos, 16, left, of Mount Olive High in New Jersey, will have to work harder to avoid summer school again. Sean Robinson, who is 17 and retaking Spanish, said the higher standard would raise the school's profile. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); GRADE INFLATION (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (66%); SOCCER (66%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



164 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Russia Says U.S. Violated Arms Treaties Many Times

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Russia's Foreign Ministry released a report on Saturday accusing the United States of violating dozens of provisions of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons treaties going back about a decade, apparently in a retort to American critics of a new arms treaty, who have been accusing Russia of violating past agreements.
The 10-page report detailed lapses in security at Los Alamos National Laboratory, cited reports on security threats posed by private laboratories in the United States conducting research on potential military pathogens and noted what it called failures by the United States to provide telemetry on test missile launchings. 
It also rekindled complaints that the United States and other NATO nations had disregarded a 1997 agreement with Russia limiting the deployment of forces in former Eastern Bloc countries, and noted that the American missile defense program employed decoy rockets seemingly belonging to a class of missiles banned under a treaty on intermediate range nuclear weapons.
The United States responded to the accusations with a terse comment rejecting Moscow's claims. ''We have met our obligations under START,'' said Megan Mattson, a State Department spokeswoman.
The Senate is considering ratification of a new nuclear weapons treaty, called New Start, signed in April by President Obama and President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, and opponents had pointed to a State Department report that says Russia violated past arms control treaties, at times denying access to inspectors. The report cited several compliance disputes but said Russia had lived up to the treaty's ''central limits.''
The Obama administration had hoped that the treaty would be ratified by this summer, as a first step toward much harder and more sweeping agreements to curb the spread of nuclear weapons. But a Senate committee has delayed a vote until September.
Ratification requires approval by two-thirds of the Senate, which means at least eight Republican votes. But within the Republican Party there is a debate on whether to support the agreement, which Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and a possible 2012 presidential candidate, called Mr. Obama's ''worst foreign policy mistake yet.''
The treaty bars the United States and Russia from deploying more than 1,550 strategic warheads and 70 launchers each, though it allows the countries to store far more, a loophole to be addressed by future treaties.
The Russian report seemed clearly aimed at American policy makers, Sergei A. Karaganov, a dean of the faculty of international relations at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow, said in an interview.
''It is an issue balancing accusations on the American side with counteraccusations, which are more numerous on the Russian side,'' said Mr. Karaganov, adding that the point of the report was to say that ''nobody is holy'' in observing arms agreements.
In Washington, policy analysts have cited partisan motives for delaying ratification, to prevent Mr. Obama from scoring a political victory before Congressional elections or to leverage the vote to get more money for the national laboratories that maintain the nuclear arsenal.
''These things are viewed exclusively in the domestic political battle,'' Samuel Charap, a fellow at the Center for American Progress, said in an interview, ''but they have consequence for the bilateral relationship.''
The Russian report cited a number of complaints against policies of the Bush administration. The United States, it said, had converted B-1 bombers to carry conventional weapons, rather than destroying them to meet treaty obligations. And assurances that such weapons could not be quickly retooled for nuclear bombs were inadequate.
Citing the Department of Agriculture's own reports, it said control over laboratories studying plant pathogens was weak.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); TEST LABORATORIES (76%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); MITT ROMNEY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



165 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Kagan Is Sworn In as the Fourth Woman, and 112th Justice, on the Supreme Court

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Elena Kagan was sworn in on Saturday as the 112th person, and fourth woman, to serve on the Supreme Court, continuing a generational and demographic transformation of the nation's highest bench.
In keeping with tradition, Ms. Kagan first took the constitutional oath given to a wide array of officials and then the judicial oath administered to those wearing the robe. Joined by family and friends in the Supreme Court building, she swore to ''administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the poor and to the rich.''
The low-key formal ceremony came two days after she was confirmed by the Senate and a day after President Obama marked her ascension with a jubilant televised celebration in the East Room of the White House. She was Mr. Obama's second successful nominee to the court, and her approval by the Senate was taken as a jolt of validation for a White House battered by political and economic troubles. 
Succeeding Justice John Paul Stevens, the court's retiring liberal leader, Justice Kagan, 50, presumably will not drastically change the philosophical balance on the divided court. But if she were to serve until she was 90, as Justice Stevens has, she would have four decades to shape the nation's legal architecture, long after the man who appointed her left the White House. Even a shorter tenure would give her time to leave her mark.
Arguably, Justice Kagan made a mark from the moment she took the oaths on Saturday. She is the third woman on the current court, joining Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor. She is also the fifth justice born after World War II, making that group a majority, and she brings down the average age on the court to 64, from nearly 69. And she is the first person since William H. Rehnquist, 38 years ago, to join the court without experience as a judge.
If her installation added diversity in some ways, though, it reinforced the court's lack of it in other areas. Her addition means the court now includes neither Protestants nor anyone without an Ivy League background. Justice Kagan joins two other Jewish justices and six Catholics. She is the sixth justice to have studied at Harvard Law School (although Justice Ginsburg later transferred to and graduated from Columbia Law School); the other three graduated from Yale Law School. And she is the fourth justice to have grown up in New York City.
Mr. Obama did not attend Saturday's ceremony, but at Friday's event he said a third woman on the court would make it ''a little more inclusive, a little more representative.'' He added, ''It is yet another example of how our union has become more, not less, perfect over time -- more open, more fair, more free.''
Afterward, Justice Kagan made no mention of that but vowed to uphold the rule of law, saying she would ''work my hardest and try my best to fulfill these commitments and serve this country I love as well as I am able.''
Justice Kagan seemed to have had her sights trained on the Supreme Court for years. She served as a lawyer and domestic policy aide in the Clinton White House, was dean of Harvard Law School and, last year, was appointed by Mr. Obama as solicitor general, the government's lawyer before the Supreme Court.
She was confirmed Thursday on a 63-to-37 Senate vote, with most Republicans opposing her, citing her lack of judicial experience and liberal views on issues like abortion, guns and gay rights.
Republicans criticized her for barring military recruiters from using a Harvard facility because of the rule banning gays and lesbians from serving openly. They also said she ''would ally herself not with the constitutional liberties of all Americans, but with the big government agenda of the president who nominated her,'' as Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee, put it.
Saturday's ceremony consisted of two parts. First, in the justices' conference room with just a handful of Ms. Kagan's relatives present, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. administered the constitutional oath for federal employees swearing to ''support and defend the Constitution.'' Then they moved into the larger West Conference Room, where the chief justice administered the judicial oath.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (92%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); RELIGION (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



166 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: First Lady's Spain Vacation Draws Criticism

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and RAPHAEL MINDER; Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Raphael Minder from Madrid.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- There is nothing like a little Mediterranean beach vacation to unwind. Unless you happen to travel with dozens of Secret Service agents, trailed by photographers and dogged by controversy.
Michelle Obama hoped to enjoy a quiet summer break in southern Spain with her younger daughter and a few friends. But the Andalusian getaway has gotten away from her as the European media document her every flamenco dance step and critics back home question the wisdom of such a lavish vacation, which involves at least some taxpayer money, in a time of austerity.
As Mrs. Obama and her entourage toured the picturesque southern city of Ronda on Saturday, the blogosphere has been filled with commentary about what many saw as a tone-deaf trip in the same week the United States reported the loss of 131,000 more jobs. ''A modern-day Marie Antoinette,'' scolded a New York Daily News columnist. 
The White House was reluctant to discuss Mrs. Obama's trip. The only official comment came from Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, at a briefing last week when he said that Mrs. Obama ''is a private citizen and is the mother of a daughter on a private trip. And I think I'd leave it at that.''
Privately, officials note that the first lady is paying for her own room, food and transportation, and the friends she brought will pay for theirs as well. The government pays for security, and the Secret Service, not the first lady, determines what is needed.
Officials said some reports of the trip had been exaggerated. Mrs. Obama is not traveling with 40 friends, one official said, but with two friends and four of their daughters, as well as a couple of aides and a couple of advance staff members. The staff is with her because she will pay a courtesy call on King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia on the island of Majorca on Sunday before flying home to Washington.
Every first lady in modern times has flown on government planes with a sizable security detail, and it is hard to pinpoint the cost to taxpayers. The Air Force jet she flew costs $11,351 per hour to operate, according to several reports, meaning a 14-hour round trip would cost nearly $160,000. The first lady would reimburse only the equivalent of first-class commercial tickets for herself and her daughter Sasha, the rest of the seats being occupied mainly by Secret Service. Officials said their friends flew on separate commercial flights.
Laura Bush took vacations without her husband each year of George W. Bush's presidency, traveling with her Secret Service detail on a government plane to meet friends for camping in national parks. But that never generated as much furor, in part because vacationing in the United States is not as politically delicate for American leaders and their families as doing so in foreign countries.
The Obama family traveled to Acadia National Park in Maine in July and plans to spend time in the Gulf of Mexico and on Martha's Vineyard this month.
''It's always very difficult to lead a private life when you're a public person,'' said Anita McBride, who was Mrs. Bush's chief of staff. ''No one would deny any of our hard-working public officials an opportunity for a vacation. Everybody needs that. But I think the more expensive or lavish a trip might be perceived, the more criticism you invite.''
While some Americans frown, the Spanish eagerly welcomed the Obama group, seeing it as a boost for a tourism sector severely hit by the country's economic downturn. Since her landing at Malaga's airport on Wednesday, Spanish media have covered the first lady's trip almost minute by minute, from a tour of the Alhambra palace to a stop at an ice cream shop.
Their Andalusian stay was to end Saturday night with a charity dinner organized and attended by celebrities like Eva Longoria Parker and Antonio Banderas.
Mrs. Obama and friends have been staying at the five-star Hotel Villa Padierna near Marbella, where at least 30 rooms were reserved for the entourage, including those for security. The hotel is one of Spain's more luxurious establishments, with rooms ranging from $500-a-night to a $6,600 suite with 24-hour butler service.
The Spanish excitement grew so much that the media reported one study claiming the publicity from her visit would be worth $1 billion for a country. The attention has gotten so intense that the Spanish newspaper El Pais chastised local authorities for showing a ''puerile enthusiasm'' for the visit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michelle Obama, center, with her daughter Sasha and friends in the southern Spanish city of Ronda on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGIO TORRES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); FAMILY (73%); CAMPING (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); AIR FORCES (67%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (61%); DANCE (56%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (92%); BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEDITERRANEAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



167 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; STATE IN PLAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Seeks Democratic Seats on McCain Turf

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
MEDINA, Ohio -- Of all the veins Republicans hope to mine to win seats they need to recapture the House, one may be particularly rich: Democratic seats from districts that picked John McCain over Barack Obama in the last presidential race.
These split districts are scattered across the country, a total of 48 from Alabama to Arizona where Democrats were elected not on the coattails of Mr. Obama, but in spite of opposition to him. Republicans, needing a net gain of 39 for a majority in the House, are redoubling their efforts to win these seats, hoping to link Democrats to the president and his policies.
For 58 years, voters here in Ohio's 16th Congressional District sent Republicans to Washington, a streak that was interrupted in 2008 when John Boccieri, a state senator who flew cargo planes in Iraq as a member of the Air Force Reserves, was elected.
He outperformed Mr. Obama by seven percentage points, but how voters react to his and other Democrats' support for three administration priorities -- the economic stimulus, the health care overhaul and climate change legislation -- will help determine whether they can survive the fierce headwinds facing the Democratic Party. 
''This is a strong conservative district,'' said Mr. Boccieri's Republican challenger, Jim Renacci, pausing for a moment as he mingled with voters on a recent night at the Medina County Fair. ''I really think we need to have somebody representing the district other than Nancy Pelosi.''
When Mr. Obama was elected, 49 Democratic lawmakers represented districts carried by Mr. McCain. Soon, Representative Parker Griffith of Alabama left the party to become a Republican, but he was defeated in the primary earlier this year.
Then, eight of the Democrats decided not to run for re-election, giving Republicans a good shot at picking up those open seats. Now there are 40 Democratic incumbents remaining in districts won by Mr. McCain.
There are multiple combinations for how Republicans can reach the gain needed to win control of the House, but neither side disputes the notion that for Republicans to be successful, some of their victories must come from these split districts.
They are by no means all easy targets for Republicans. For a variety of factors, including fund-raising strength and the quality and ideological positioning of the Republican candidates, only 15 of the 40 districts are considered top targets by the National Republican Congressional Committee. Several others are rated competitive by nonpartisan analysts.
At least a handful of Democrats in the 40 districts are no longer considered to be as vulnerable as Republicans had hoped, largely because their preferred candidates were defeated by more conservative candidates in primaries.
Representatives Jason Altmire of Pennsylvania, Walt Minnick of Idaho and Zack Space of Ohio are among the Democrats no longer seen by Republicans as easy targets.
While Mr. Boccieri supported Mr. Obama on health care, economic stimulus and cap-and-trade climate legislation, other Democrats voted against one, two or even all three of the measures -- meaning Republicans cannot use a single line of attack against them.
Democrats take solace in the fact that of the party's three Ohio lawmakers who come from districts where Mr. Obama lost to Mr. McCain, only Mr. Boccieri has a fiercely competitive race. Representative Charlie Wilson, along with Mr. Space, also is not included among the top Republican targets.
Here in the 16th Congressional District, the race between Mr. Boccieri and Mr. Renacci has already become a highly contentious one. The district, which stretches across four counties, includes Stark County and Canton, the home of President William McKinley, a Republican.
Mr. Renacci's strategy is to tie Mr. Boccieri to Mr. Obama and Ms. Pelosi, the House speaker, who is often portrayed by Republican candidates as the embodiment of liberalism run amok. Mr. Boccieri flatly rejects the assertion that he is a puppet of Ms. Pelosi, and he said Mr. Renacci would favor returning to an agenda that Republicans put forward while President George W. Bush was in office.
''People are mad at Democrats, but they're still mad as hell at Republicans,'' Mr. Boccieri said. ''I am not ashamed of any of those votes that I've taken.''
When people ask Mr. Boccieri about his opponent's assertion that he is a reliable vote for Ms. Pelosi and the Democratic Party, he has a statistic at the ready: he says he sided with Republicans 847 times out of 1,464 votes he took in his first term in Congress. The Almanac of American Politics ranked Mr. Boccieri as the 224th most liberal and the 204th most conservative member of Congress.
''I've staked out one of the loneliest places in Washington,'' he said. ''But I'm in a quintessential swing district in a quintessential swing state, and that makes me a target.''
Democrats sent researchers to investigate the business background of Mr. Renacci, who owned nursing homes and a car dealership and had a stake in the Columbus Destroyers, an arena football team. Four years ago, court records show, he was assessed nearly $1.4 million in unpaid state taxes, interest and fees, which he ultimately paid.
Mr. Renacci said his business record was far less important to voters than Mr. Boccieri's record in Congress.
''People understand the tax situation -- it's 30 years of business, 30 years of employing people,'' Mr. Renacci said. ''Every time he brings it up, I'm going to keep asking him, how about your cap-and-trade vote? How about your health care vote?''
Mr. Renacci raised more money than Mr. Boccieri in the second quarter of the year, but Mr. Boccieri had $1.06 million on hand, compared with $662,612 for Mr. Renacci, who also had a four-way primary to contend with. Mr. Renacci, who reported in House disclosure forms that he had a net worth of at least $35 million, has lent his campaign $200,000 and said he would not rule out investing more money in the race.
While the district is made up of small and medium-size towns, from River Styx (population 655) to Canton (78,000), it is part of the Cleveland television market, where it is expensive for Congressional candidates to place advertisements.
The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has already reserved time for the final weeks of the campaign to run commercials on behalf of Mr. Boccieri.
The campaign literature for Mr. Boccieri, which volunteers were handing out last week at the Medina County Fair, does not mention votes that he has taken on health care, the economic stimulus or energy legislation. The word Democrat also does not appear on his brochures.
State in Play: This is part of a series of articles looking at House and Senate races in the battleground state of Ohio and other developments there that highlight the forces shaping politics in the 2010 midterm campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Renacci, right, a Republican vying for the House in Ohio's 16th District, campaigned Monday at the Medina County Fair. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN BLAZE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) CHART: Some of the Most Vulnerable Incumbents: John Boccieri is one of 40 House Democrats running for re-election in districts that Senator John McCain carried in 2008. The votes on three of the Obama administration's top initiatives -- the economic stimulus, cap-and-trade energy legislation and the health care overhaul -- have become major campaign issues in many of these races. (Source: National Republican Congressional Committee (targets))
 MAP (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); AIR FORCES (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); FUNDRAISING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOCCIERI (90%); JASON ALTMIRE (58%); JIM RENACCI (58%); PARKER GRIFFITH (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); WALT MINNICK (58%); ZACHARY T SPACE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



168 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: The Benefits of Ethanol

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Energy Subsidies -- Good and Bad'' (editorial, July 29): 
For years, the government has needed to support renewable fuels like ethanol because they are competing against a heavily entrenched petroleum industry. This country has spent trillions of public and private dollars building a fueling infrastructure that benefits oil and effectively shuts out competitors. The consequences include not only huge environmental risks, but a $300 billion-a-year drain from our economy to pay for imported petroleum.
Growth Energy's Fueling Freedom plan would redirect the ethanol tax credit away from oil companies -- where it is currently used as an incentive to blend ethanol with gasoline -- and instead use the funds to build the infrastructure that would allow renewable fuels to compete with oil on a level playing field. By installing 200,000 ethanol pumps at gas stations across the country and putting 120 million flexible-fuel vehicles on the road, our plan would create an open market where ethanol could compete with gasoline without government support.
To clarify your editorial, Growth Energy proposes phasing out the ethanol tax credit once the market is opened -- and domestic ethanol has the level playing field to compete with oil.
Given a chance, domestic ethanol can strengthen our national security, reduce our carbon emissions and create more jobs by keeping American money invested in our own economy instead of sending it overseas.
Wesley K. Clark Washington, July 29, 2010
The writer, the retired general, is co-chairman of Growth Energy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (92%); ETHANOL (92%); ALCOHOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (73%); WRITERS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



169 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Midge Woolsey, Jerry Stolt

BYLINE: By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

 BODY:
Midge Woolsey and Jerry Stolt were married Saturday at St. Thomas Church in New York. The Rev. Andrew C. Mead, an Episcopal priest and the church's rector, performed the ceremony in his office.
Ms. Woolsey, 54, is keeping her name. She is the host of a daytime radio program broadcast on WQXR, the classical music station in New York. She has also been a host of PBS programs, including ''The Three Tenors in Paris.'' She graduated from Trinity University in San Antonio, Tex. She is a daughter of JoAnne S. Woolsey of Boerne, Tex., and the late Robert B. Woolsey.
Mr. Stolt, 66, retired as the executive vice president for global sales and marketing at Pantone, the color technology company in Carlstadt, N.J. He graduated with master's and doctoral degrees in international economics from Hamburg University in Germany. He is a son of Anneliese Kleemann Stolt and Walter Stolt, who lived in Hamburg. 
The couple were introduced in December 2008 through an online dating site and, as Ms. Woolsey put it, with the help of a ''love mentor.''
A month earlier, Ms. Woolsey had agreed to test a three-month dating program prescribed by Diana Kirschner, an author and dating coach, who wrote ''Love in 90 Days,'' and whom she met at a taping of a PBS program called ''Finding Your Own True Love With Dr. Diana Kirschner.'' ''What she had to show me was that I was dating and interested in the wrong kind of man,'' Ms. Woolsey said of their conversation.
At first, Ms. Woolsey was hesitant to post her profile online because of her public persona, but then she took up the challenge as a job search. Among Dr. Kirschner's requirements were to try out at least two different dating sites and keep at least three men on a revolving list of active dates.
There were dozens of potential matches, but Mr. Stolt was one of the first to get her attention.
''I didn't get right off the bat he was German,'' said Ms. Woolsey, who recalled being intrigued by the photo he had posted, showing him standing in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, and by the news that he liked to travel.
After e-mailing him three times, with no response, Ms. Woolsey said she became ''uncharacteristically persistent'' to get him on her revolving list.
He blamed his typing for the lag. ''I do hate to type,'' he said. ''I had the privilege of a private secretary.''
They began seeing each other every few days for lunch.
Ms. Woolsey soon discovered he was a wine collector, had a beautiful garden and appreciated classical music, but was more into Bob Dylan and the Grateful Dead.
No matter. ''I happen to be musically eclectic,'' Ms. Woolsey said. ''I just think he has good taste in music like everything else.''
He proved to be remarkably persistent, too. ''Every time the date would end, Jerry would say 'When are we going to see each other again?' '' Ms. Woolsey recalled. ''He kept things moving.''
Like teenagers in love, Ms. Woolsey said, they could be found trying out scents on each other at Bergdorf Goodman or having a picnic in her apartment.
''Suddenly out of nowhere, Midge would be singing a German song, a show tune, Cole Porter or Kurt Weill,'' Mr. Stolt said.
Other dating contenders rapidly fell by the wayside.
Mr. Stolt, a widower since 2006, got some mentoring of his own from his psychologist, who he said ''helped me understand relationships.''
At Christmastime, Ms. Woolsey said, she called Dr. Kirschner and told her: ''I'm slightly breaking the rules here. I want to give it a try exclusively. She kept saying, 'Don't do it, don't do it.' ''
In January, at the taping of a public television fund-raiser featuring Ms. Woolsey and her dating coach, Dr. Kirschner met Mr. Stolt.
Minutes later, the coach pulled Ms. Woolsey aside and told her, ''He's perfect for you, just perfect.'' ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); DATING SERVICES (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); WRITERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



170 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Oiling All the Gears

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''What Would Roosevelt Do?'' (Economic View, Aug. 1) and other recent articles illustrate that the Great Recession is a systems problem: if we address only one part of the system, efforts to rescue the American economy will fail. 
To generate jobs, we must have growth. To generate growth, we must stimulate investment, specifically direct investment in the production of goods and services -- not asset bubbles. That is why the Fed has brought interest rates down so low.
But entrepreneurs will not invest in production unless there is demand for their products. And there will not be demand unless consumers have money, whether from wages or government programs.
However, to generate demand, we do not need to increase the federal deficit: instead, we can increase taxes on returns from nonproductive investments. Such taxes should not slow growth. Caroline Poplin, J.D., M.D.
Bethesda, Md., Aug. 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (82%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); TAX INCREASES (65%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



171 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1960 words

HEADLINE: Life Lessons In the Mideast

BYLINE: By JENNIFER CONLIN

 BODY:
Cairo
AT first glance, they seem like typical American college students on their junior year abroad, swapping stories of language mishaps and cultural clashes, sharing sightseeing tips and travel deals. But these students are not studying at Oxford, the Sorbonne or an art institute in Florence.
Instead, they are attending the American University in Cairo, studying Arabic, not French, and dealing with cultural, social and religious matters far more complex than those in Spain or Italy. And while their European counterparts might head to Heidelberg, Germany, for a weekend of beer drinking, these students visit places most Americans know only through news reports -- the West Bank, Ethiopia and even northern Iraq. No ''Sex and the City'' jaunts to Abu Dhabi for this group.
In what educators are calling the fastest growing study-abroad program, American college students are increasingly choosing to spend their traditional junior year abroad in places like Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates, wanting to experience the Arab world beyond America's borders and viewpoints.
According to a February 2010 report from the Institute of International Education, a private nonprofit group that administers the Fulbright program for the United States government, the number of American students studying in Arabic-speaking countries increased sixfold to 3,399 in 2007 from 562 in 2002. 
While that number may seem small compared with the more than 33,000 American students who headed to the United Kingdom in 2007 and the 13,000 who studied in China, it represents the fastest growing region for study abroad in the world. Between 2006 and 2007 the number of American students studying in Arab countries rose nearly 60 percent while China had only a 19 percent increase and England, 1.9 percent.
These numbers have no doubt been bolstered by the Critical Language Scholarship Program, begun in 2006 by the State Department -- a government initiative set up to encourage college-age students to study Arabic, as well as 12 other listed languages, including Punjabi and Azerbaijani. Since then the program has become so popular (more than 12,000 students having applied for the Arabic program since its inception, with 800 being awarded scholarships), that this year eligibility was restricted to college and graduate students who have already had at least one year of Arabic.
Lisa Anderson, the provost at the American University in Cairo, which has a student population of around 7,000, said she has ''absolutely seen a surge in U.S. students' interest in the region,'' adding that before 9/11 the university had 50 to 75 American students studying there each year, compared with around 350 a semester now.
''But you have to understand, these are not the same kids who go bike touring in France,'' said Ms. Anderson, who joined the faculty two years ago from Columbia University. ''Many are contemplating careers in the Middle East, perhaps with the Foreign Service or an N.G.O. They are very serious about this region of the world.''
Alex Thompson, 21, a Princeton senior this academic year who spent last year at the American University in Cairo, is typical of the student Ms. Anderson described. His interest in the Middle East stemmed from a summer spent at Seeds of Peace, a camp based in Maine with a mission to empower high school students from America, Egypt, Israel and the Palestinian territories, as well as other war-torn areas, to work for a better future.
''I knew then I wanted to learn more about the conflict in the Middle East and live there,'' Mr. Thompson said, adding that he spent one of his last vacations in Egypt traveling around Kurdistan with some friends. ''We took a cab to Iraq from Turkey,'' he said, as casually as if he had just jumped the Eurostar from London to Paris.
LIKE most American students traveling to the Arab world, Mr. Thompson had already taken two years of modern standard Arabic at Princeton. Yet modern standard Arabic is a formal written form (the language of the Koran) that is rarely spoken in the streets and is likened to Shakespearean English -- making it necessary for serious students to learn one of the many spoken regional dialects. Mr. Thompson, who hopes to work in Islamic finance one day, learned Egyptian colloquial Arabic, the everyday language in Cairo.
Brian Reeves, 21, and Leigh Nusbaum, 20, incoming seniors at Brandeis University, are Jewish, speak Hebrew and have spent considerable time in Israel. Hoping to one day work on the peace settlement, they came to the Middle East last term wanting to explore the other side of the Arab-Israeli conflict while honing their language skills.
''Arabic is the new Russian,'' said Ms. Nusbaum, who spent last spring studying at the American University in Cairo and wants to become a regional diplomat. Mr. Reeves chose the University of Jordan in Amman, where he learned the Levantine dialect spoken in the Palestinian territories, Syria and Lebanon. ''I wanted to find out what Jews and Arabs have in common,'' Mr. Reeves said. ''A lot.''
Both students traveled extensively, including personal fact-finding visits to Palestinian refugee camps, as well as to Ramallah in the West Bank, all the while being discreet about their Jewish identity. Despite peace among Israel, Jordan and Egypt, strong feelings exist in all three countries when it comes to the Palestinian conflict.
To that end, Mr. Reeves quickly learned to speak in code when in public. ''Israel became 'Disneyland,' Tel Aviv was 'Epcot,' and Jerusalem was called, 'Cinderella's Castle,' '' he said. For Ms. Nusbaum, the experience of being delayed at the Israeli border for nearly five hours when she tried to cross from Jordan into the West Bank was both frustrating and enlightening. ''I had stamps in my passport from Lebanon and Syria so they questioned me extensively before letting me through,'' she said. ''It gave me a real taste of what the Palestinians go through.''
Female American students also see what life is like for women in the Middle East. Hannah McDermott, 20, a senior this year at Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations, spent last semester in Cairo researching women's rights issues in Egypt, including female genital mutilation and human trafficking, for a United Nations organization. Though she said it helped her decide her future (she would like to work on women's issues in Iran and Afghanistan), she remembers feeling the sting of ''every man's eyes,'' despite dressing conservatively. No wonder it is not unusual for American mothers to worry about their daughters studying here. When Ms. McDermott told her mother her study-abroad destination, she said, 'Why can't you just go to France like other kids?''
Anna Khandros, 21, faced a similar reaction from her family when she told them she wanted to study in Beirut. ''It is not easy to get your parents to let you go to a country with a State Department travel advisory, that is also home to a U.S. defined terrorist group, and that just went through a war,'' said Ms. Khandros, who this academic year will be back at Brandeis and spent last semester at the American University of Beirut. Once there, however, any anxiety evaporated. ''A.U.B. is like a resort,'' said Ms. Khandros, who is studying the history of the modern Middle East. ''My dorms look out over the beach and Beirut is an incredibly cosmopolitan and safe city during peaceful times.''
Last year, 135 American study-abroad students were enrolled at the American University of Beirut, according to Rania Murr, the university's international student services coordinator. ''The year after the war,'' she said, referring to the 2006 conflict, ''we actually had an increase of American students.'' She said that during the war many preferred to stay in the mountains with the families of fellow Lebanese students than to return home.
American University in Washington, which has had a 400 percent increase in the number of students studying in the Middle East since 2004, stopped sending students to Beirut after 2006. ''Getting our students out during the war was very difficult,'' said Sara Dumont, the director of American University Abroad (the State Department travel advisory says that American citizens must arrange their own travel out of Lebanon if unrest occurs).
J. Scott Van Der Meid, the director of study abroad at Brandeis, said the university never stopped sending students to Beirut but now provides them with a special type of emergency evacuation insurance. ''Clearly the Middle East is an area of the world that is on our students' radar screen and we don't want to prohibit them from going there,'' Mr. Van Der Meid said. ''But we need to keep them safe.''
THOUGH American University has halted its Beirut program, it is starting one in Syria this spring. ''Few Syrians speak English, so it is a better place for American students to really immerse themselves in the language,'' Ms. Dumont said, noting that most of the classes are taught in English at American University in Cairo and in Beirut.
''These students know there is a shortage in America of Arabic speakers,'' she said. ''Knowing the language can only increase their job prospects.''
To that end, Middlebury College students are obligated to take a ''language pledge'' to speak only Arabic during their time in Alexandria, Egypt (the only exception being calls home). Michael Kremer, 21, a senior at Tufts University, is nearly fluent after attending Middlebury's program. ''I learned so much more Arabic than any of my friends studying on other programs,'' he said, adding that they were housed in dormitories with local students with whom they practiced their Arabic.
Already most of these students have seen their experiences in the Middle East translate into coveted internships and jobs. Brian Reeves spent this summer working for a congresswoman in Washington, as well as doing research for the Jewish Dialogue Group, a grass-roots organization trying to foster constructive discussions about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict within Jewish communities.
Alex Thompson, from Princeton, earned a paid internship in Cairo this summer with a social entrepreneurship nongovernmental organization helping Egyptians write business plans. And William Zeman, a senior at American University, returned from a study-abroad program at the America-Mideast Educational and Training Services in Cairo with more than 20 clips, some front page, from an internship at the Daily News Egypt, an English-language newspaper.
More important, these students say they now view the region completely differently. Kathryn Baxter, 20, a student at American University, said of her time in Egypt, ''I will never again look at a story about the Middle East with such a one-sided perspective.'' Anthony Clairmont, 21, a senior at Sewanee: The University of the South, who spent six months in Morocco, said, ''I genuinely enjoyed watching the bottom fall out of every one of my preconceived ideas about the Muslim world.''
Yet none of them said they had confronted anti-American sentiment, other than occasional disagreements over foreign policy. ''I found that whether I was in Cairo, Aswan, Amman or Damascus, people with whom I interacted wanted to talk about common interests -- family, sports, music and economics -- rather than our struggles and disagreements,'' said Richard Frohlichstein, 21, a senior at Georgetown University who spent last autumn at American University in Cairo.
Or as Anna Oltman, 21, a senior at Franklin & Marshall College, said about her semester in Egypt: ''For better or worse, and certainly not unintentionally, 9/11 linked our generation of Americans with its parallel generation of Middle Easterners. We need to get to know them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO BARRIER: William Zeman (shown in May), an American student studying in Cairo, also worked at the Daily News Egypt, an English- language newspaper. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
NEW PATHS: Top, Brian Reeves, center, and friends explore Amman. Above left, at the American University in Cairo: Leigh Nusbaum, far left, Alex Thompson, center, and Dan Bendit, right. Above right, Anna Khandros and Wesley Horne, students in Beirut, Lebanon, at an amusement park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMON MILNE-DAY, TOP, SHAWN BALDWIN, ABOVE LEFT AND BRYAN DENTON, ABOVE RIGHT, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 IMMERSED: Anna Khandros says Beirut is a ''safe city during peaceful times.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RELIGION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); LEBANON (93%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SPAIN (92%); CHINA (90%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (77%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



172 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Jobless And Staying That Way

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Americans have almost always taken growth for granted. Recessions kick in, financial crises erupt, yet these events have generally been thought of as the exception, a temporary departure from an otherwise steady upward progression.
But as expectations for the recovery diminish daily and joblessness shows no sign of easing -- as the jobs report on Friday showed -- a different view is taking hold. And with it, comes implications for policymaking.
The ''new normal,'' as it has come to be called on Wall Street, academia and CNBC, envisions an economy in which growth is too slow to bring down the unemployment rate, while the government is forced to intervene ever more forcefully in a struggling private sector. Stocks and bonds yield paltry returns, with better opportunities available for investors overseas. 
If that sounds like the last three years, it should. Bill Gross and Mohamed El-Erian, who run the world's largest bond fund, Pimco, and coined the phrase in this context, think the new normal has already begun and will last at least another three to five years.
The new normal challenges the optimism that's been at the root of American success for decades, if not centuries. And if it is here, the new normal could force Democrats and Republicans to rethink their traditional approach to unemployment and other social problems.
Some unusual suspects, like Glenn Hubbard, dean of the Columbia Graduate School of Business and an economic adviser to George W. Bush, are talking about a new, expanded role for the government in addressing the problem. In particular, Mr. Hubbard favors investing more in education to retrain workers whose jobs are never coming back. ''If there is a new normal, it's more about the labor market than G.D.P.,'' he said. ''We have to help people face a new world.''
For his part, Mr. Gross, also a free-market advocate, believes that it's time for the government to spend tens of billions on new infrastructure projects to put people to work and stimulate demand.
After the recession and the financial crisis, Mr. Gross came around to the view that something structural in the economy had been altered and that the debt-fueled boom led by consumers over the past two decades was over.
Last week only provided more ammunition for his argument. On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner warned that unemployment could go up before it goes down, and on Friday, the jobs report showed that the economy lost 131,000 jobs last month.
Nearly half the 14.6 million unemployed have been out of work for more than six months, a level not seen since the Depression. That's especially worrisome because the longer unemployment persists, the more skills erode and the harder it becomes to find work.
White House officials, like Christina Romer, a top economic adviser to President Obama, have been busy speaking out against the idea of a new normal. ''The fundamental problem we are still facing is the old cyclical, not the new normal,'' she said. ''What you need to do to get back to normal is to find more ways to get demand up.''
But the new-normal concept is gaining ground. ''There is no way to know for sure, but there are broad reasons to think the new normal is possible,'' said Greg Mankiw, an economist who advised President George W. Bush and now teaches at Harvard. ''We've had a deep recession that's lingering for quite a while, and the question is: Will it leave persistent scars?''
Laura Tyson, chief economic adviser to President Clinton, counts herself firmly in the new-normal camp: ''I think we're going to have slower growth, a higher household savings rate and an elevated unemployment rate for several years.''
Of course, one month's data is hardly conclusive. And highs and lows in the economy have always been punctuated by the observation that this time is different. But more evidence is emerging that the old normal of unemployment at about 5 percent during buoyant economic growth is over.
Not only are more people out of work longer, but their options are narrowing. Roughly 1.4 million people have been jobless for more than 99 weeks, the point at which unemployment benefits run out. ''The situation is devastating,'' said Robert Gordon, an economics professor at Northwestern and an expert on the labor market. ''We are legitimately beginning to draw analogies to the Great Depression, in the sense that there is a growing hopelessness among job seekers.''
Professor Gordon doesn't foresee a quick turnaround. But the Obama administration predicts that unemployment will drop to 8.7 percent by the end of next year, and eventually sink to 6.8 percent by the end of 2013.
To reach that level, the economy would have to add nearly 300,000 workers a month over the next three years, according to Peter Morici, a business professor at the University of Maryland. Even in the first half of the year, when the economy grew at a healthy 3 percent, it added fewer than 100,000 jobs a month.
The problem is that the American safety net, which has been looser than those in Europe, was built on the assumption that unemployment would be short term. As a result, a rethinking is in order, said Mr. Hubbard, whose new book, ''Seeds of Destruction: Why the Path to Economic Ruin Runs Through Washington, and How to Reclaim American Prosperity,'' is coming out this month.
The current approach, with its focus on payments over a relatively short period of time, he said, ''came out of the world where unemployment was relatively temporary and then you went back to a similar position.''
''That isn't what's happening today.''
While he doesn't favor extending benefits, Mr. Hubbard supports more government spending on job training as well as help for community colleges to reverse the erosion of jobs skills among the long-term unemployed.
Mr. Gross is more expansive. ''We think the coma will last for years unless government policy changes to restimulate the private sector and bring unemployment down,'' he said. He wants Washington to invest billions on infrastructure improvements and clean energy, along with the expanded job training favored by Mr. Hubbard.
Despite his long-held belief in free markets, smaller government and lower taxes, Mr. Gross said politicians must recognize that this time, ''government is part of the solution.'' He added, ''In the new-normal world, there are structural problems, which require structural solutions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (WK1)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BOND FUNDS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); CHRISTINA ROMER (54%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



173 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Feliz Cumpleanos, And Adios

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Her critics used to paint her as a scary Marxist. Now they cast her as a spoiled princess.
During the campaign, she was caricatured on the cover of The New Yorker as a fist-bumping, gun-toting Black Panther. Now she's mocked by a New York Daily News blogger as a jet-setting, free-spending Marie Antoinette. (On Spain's Costa del Sol with Sasha on her husband's 49th birthday, she did, in effect, say let him eat cake -- alone.)
Michelle Obama is the most popular figure in the administration, but last week she had her first brush with getting brushed back in the press. 
Some of the women anchoring news shows on MSNBC debated whether the first lady was being ''mean'' to her husband by deserting him on his birthday for a girls' getaway to Spain, and whether it was sort of sad, as one put it, that the president, drowning in troubles, had to go to Chicago to find friends (including Oprah) to celebrate with.
Andrea Tantaros, a Fox contributor and former Republican operative, wrote a harsh Daily News blog post calling the first lady a ''material girl'' for going on a glitzy vacation at a luxury resort in Marbella with a cavalcade of Secret Service agents, friends, children and staff, even as ''most of the country is pinching pennies and downsizing summer sojourns -- or forgoing them altogether.''
In politics and pop culture, optics are all. And Michelle's optics sent a message that likely made some in the White House and the Democratic Party wince.
She seemed to be gigging her husband a bit: I'm going to do what I want to do. I can't worry about whether it gives the Tea Partiers ammo or makes Democrats (including you) campaigning against the excesses of the rich look hypocritical. Even if the country is sliding into a double-dip recession, I'm going abroad to a five-star hotel on Air Force Two and give a boost to another country's economy.
To defray possible criticism of their upcoming 10-day trip to Martha's Vineyard, Michelle belatedly agreed to a weekend family vacation on Florida's gulf coast. On Friday, Spanish police closed a public beach for the American entourage. If Michelle had wanted a closed beach, she could have headed to our gulf sooner. There are plenty of multi-star hotels there, and she and the girls could have cleaned a few pelicans.
Certainly, as Obama adviser David Axelrod says, ''not everything is political theater.'' The Obamas shouldn't have to poll, as the Clintons did, to figure out where to go on vacation.
''Folks in the public eye are also human beings,'' Axelrod told me. ''If you have the ability to show your kid a part of the world and you can do that together before they get to the age where they don't want to do anything with you, I don't think it's right that you have to defer it because of the politics.''
But as Michelle and friends frolicked in the land of flamenco, the birthday boy got few gifts from the news.
More Democratic candidates shied away from appearing with him. The latest disappointing jobs report prompted evening news reports about Americans' fears of falling into what one called ''the abyss.'' And a CNN poll showed that a quarter of Americans still doubt the president was even born here.
The job of first lady, tightly constrained by convention, is hard for modern women. Michelle is a gutsy Harvard Law School grad who started as her husband's mentor. Any coloring outside the lines can cause problems, as Nancy Reagan and Hillary Clinton learned when lampooned as Marie Antoinettes.
Michelle has done such a good job that she silenced her vituperative conservative critics for a year and a half. But perhaps the strain of debunking that ''angry black woman'' stereotype by playing the smiling, conventional first lady, talking to Ladies' Home Journal about vegetable cleanses and portion sizes, made her want to assert her independence in the one place she could: her schedule.
The inimitable columnist Mary McGrory once said that if a first lady simply made her husband toast, that was enough, given how hard his job was.
And because his predecessor mucked things up so royally, President Obama's job is ridiculously hard. But at moments when you think Michelle might make her husband toast, or better yet a martini, she's often off on a girls' trip.
When health care passed after a difficult year and the president celebrated with his staff on the Truman Balcony, the first lady was with her daughters on Broadway to see ''Memphis.''
When the BP oil spill stained the White House, making the president seem so impotent that he had to make his first national address from the Oval Office, the first lady was playing with her mother and daughters in Los Angeles, staying at the Beverly Wilshire. She was taking in a Lakers game the night of his address.
During the campaign, Michelle tried to offset her husband's existential detachment with familial warmth. Now that he holds the world's loneliest office, he needs that more than ever.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); BEACHES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FAMILY TRAVEL (73%); POLITICS (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



174 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CHICAGO WAY; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: A Political Consulting Firm Redefines the Word 'Insurgent'

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS

 BODY:
The cryptic Web site of the Freeman Institute, a little-known Chicago political consulting firm, promises to help would-be aldermen run grass-roots campaigns ''designed specifically for the insurgent.''
The question is: Insurgents against whom?
In a city where the same man has been mayor for more than 21 years, often enjoying unanimous City Council votes in favor of his legislative proposals, fighting the status quo surely implies a challenge to Mayor Richard M. Daley and his allies on the Council. 
The political winds seem to be blowing in the direction of rebellion as the February city election approaches, with the mayor's poll numbers at an all-time low and the city's budget deficit at a record high.
But state records show that the Freeman Institute has worked for the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce, which often serves as a quasi-official arm of the mayor's economic-development efforts. And the husband-wife operatives behind the firm are recruiting aspiring aldermen with a pro-business bent.
Nicholas Delgado, the investment banker who runs the Freeman Institute with his wife, Haydee Caldero, noted that corporate Chicago had ''tremendous access'' to the mayor and state leaders.
''Some people have said to me, 'Come on, Nick, you're going to tell me some of the largest companies in the city are insurgents?' '' Mr. Delgado said.
''I would make the case that the business community in Chicago finds itself in an insurgent position,'' he said. ''Labor really was the entity that had real force in the 2007 city election.''
Organized labor, led by the Service Employees International Union, poured millions of dollars into the last aldermanic election to help unseat several Daley allies who sided with the mayor in support of Wal-Mart, a nonunion retailer.
Despite increased debate on the Council and fewer 50-to-0 votes since that election, Mayor Daley has continued to count on support from most aldermen on virtually every issue. After a long fight, Wal-Mart recently won Council approval for two new stores.
Still, there is a sense that the balance of power in the Council could further shift in the next election. Three of the mayor's allies have announced their retirement. Others fear an anti-incumbent movement due to the unpopular privatization of the city's parking meters and the weak economy, which could force the city to cut services.
In the last aldermanic election, Mr. Daley provided little direct material support to his embattled allies on the Council, and his friends at the Chamber of Commerce delivered far less backing for incumbents than they had promised.
Mr. Delgado said that the real estate bust could also hamper re-election efforts. In the boom years, many members of the Council relied on campaign cash from developers seeking zoning changes, but there is little new construction now.
Just five aldermen, led by Edward Burke (14th Ward), have most of the campaign cash on hand in aldermanic accounts -- almost $10 million. The other 45 aldermen together have about $2.5 million in their accounts, an average of $56,000 each.
Michael Mini, the chamber's government relations director, said the group wanted to expand its efforts to help business-friendly candidates and was considering hiring the Freeman consultants to help. The chamber paid $18,000 to Mr. Delgado's firm in the first six months of this year, according to state records.
The Freeman Institute is not the only budding effort to help pro-business candidates. State documents also reveal the recent formation of a new political fund called Welcome Wal-Mart. Philip Molfese, a Chicago campaign and public relations consultant who formed the group, said it had no ties to Wal-Mart. Mr. Molfese said he started the fund on his own because some aldermen told him they wanted to support the company but feared a union-financed push to unseat them in reprisal.
''It really is an independent thing,'' Mr. Molfese said. ''There needs to be a counterbalance.''
Gyata Kimmons, a City Hall lobbyist for Wal-Mart and a former Daley aide, said he had been unaware of Welcome Wal-Mart. ''I'm appreciative,'' he said of it.
Mr. Delgado said his firm also was open to working with ''outright progressive'' council challengers who may not be in lock-step with the business community's agenda.
But, Jerry Morrison, executive director of the Service Employees International Union's State Council, called both the Freeman Institute and Welcome Wal-Mart ''corporate front groups'' posing as grass-roots efforts.
Mr. Morrison said officials of the union had not determined how much they might spend in the 2011 election.
''We will have adequate resources to defend our friends and allies and be aggressive where there are opportunities to take additional seats,'' he said. ''I think there will be a lot of opportunities.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); APPROVALS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); RETAILERS (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



175 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Race to Succeed Chris Daly Reflects a Transformed District

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH. 
gshih@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
The Mission Hotel, home to poverty, despair and, residents said, a steady market for drugs and sex behind its faded green walls, has long been an improbable seat of political influence in San Francisco.
For years, Chris Daly, the city supervisor, swept through gritty residential hotels like the Mission during election season, rallying the marginalized and the destitute who formed his largest constituency. That support lifted Mr. Daly to victories in 2000, 2002 and 2006, and turned him into one of the most prominent and polarizing politicians in the city.
Mr. Daly is ineligible to run again because of term limits, and the candidates vying to succeed him are campaigning across a vastly different political landscape that reflects the profound economic and demographic changes taking place in San Francisco.
Mr. Daly's territory, District 6, contains hundreds of single-room-occupancy hotels with an estimated 10,000 residents. But the district's identity is being transformed by an influx of Silicon Valley professionals moving into high-rises like Millennium Tower, where Tom Perkins, the venture capitalist, bought a $9.35-million penthouse condominium last September. 
''District 6 is where the city is changing, where whole new neighborhoods are forming,'' said Jane Kim, the president of the San Francisco Board of Education, who is running for the seat held by Mr. Daly.
That new reality, Ms. Kim said, is changing District 6's politics, as she finds herself moving between soup kitchens and Starbucks in search of votes.
''We've been doing a lot of lunch and dinner lines, but we've also done a lot of coffee lines,'' she said half-jokingly. ''You can't take any neighborhood for granted now.''
For the past decade, District 6 belonged to Mr. Daly, the profane and passionate advocate for the disenfranchised, who helped turn the city's homeless population into a political force. He once nearly came to blows with Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. after showing up uninvited at a meeting accompanied by other advocates for the homeless. He built his legislative record on affordable-housing initiatives and reforms for the residential hotels, including mandatory sprinkler systems.
''For 10 years, I've gone to the mat for my people and the issues that really matter,'' Mr. Daly said. ''It may be that it's not going to look like the way I've engaged over the last 10 years.''
The diverse cast of front-runners to succeed him reflects the shifts in District 6. Ms. Kim, 32, a civil rights lawyer and former community organizer, is an advocate for affordable housing whose politics closely resemble Mr. Daly's. But unlike Mr. Daly, she is signaling that she is friendly to wealthier residents who demand cleaner streets and more police officers.
''Obviously, the difference is I also care about other policy issues as well,'' Ms. Kim said. ''It's important that we build a unified platform.''
Another leading candidate, Debra Walker, is a lesbian artist who has positioned herself as an advocate for the small-business and arts communities in the vibrant South of Market neighborhood.
Ms. Walker has the backing of the progressive establishment and organized labor. She counts among her endorsements local progressive heavyweights like State Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, Supervisors John Avalos and David Campos and the head of the city's Democratic Party, Aaron Peskin.
Ms. Walker has been a longtime tenant representative on the Building Inspection Commission, and she has promised to focus on supporting affordable housing developments for the middle class -- ''up to 120 percent of median income,'' she said.
Like Ms. Kim, she is also distancing herself from Mr. Daly's flame-throwing politics.
''The last five years especially has been defined by that acrimony,'' Ms. Walker said. ''People feel they're shut out of the process if they don't fully agree with him.''
A third leading candidate is Theresa Sparks, a transgender woman who was the chief executive of Good Vibrations, a local chain of sex stores. In a political development that perhaps could occur only in San Francisco, Ms. Kim and Ms. Walker have sought to cast Ms. Sparks as the conservative in the race.
In an interview, Ms. Sparks rejected that characterization.
''I feel comfortable in every single area in District 6, which I think is different from someone like Jane Kim,'' Ms. Sparks said. ''I ran environmental businesses for 25 years, Good Vibes for seven years, and I'm a transgender woman who's the head of the Human Rights Commission. You don't get more progressive than that.''
Some political observers believe that Ms. Kim and Ms. Walker may split the progressive vote, opening the door for a candidate well to the right of Mr. Daly.
''Daly casts a very long shadow in that district, but the perception that the district is this radical anomaly in San Francisco is just not the case,'' said Corey Cook, a professor of politics at the University of San Francisco. ''A moderate would have a real shot there.''
Mr. Daly has yet to make an endorsement. The candidate he seems to favor, James Keys, a gay black man who is a former S.R.O. resident, has not yet emerged as a first-tier contender.
Since 2000, the year Mr. Daly was first elected to the Board of Supervisors, developers have created 12,000 housing units in District 6, said John Rahaim, San Francisco's planning director. Many of the units are in high-rise condominiums that have sprung up near AT&T Park, south of Market Street.
The units are filled with young professionals who commute to Silicon Valley, where in 2009 the high-tech industry employed 410,000 workers, with an average annual income of $130,000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. More high-rises are planned for the area, which is zoned to become the densest residential area in the city, Mr. Rahaim said.
The growth is fundamentally altering the political calculus in San Francisco, Mr. Cook said, pointing out that ''when you plunk down a high-rise that brings in 1,000 new people, half of whom vote, that changes things.''
In an apparent acknowledgment that the far-left vote may be split, Mr. Daly proposed holding a ''progressive primary'' several months ago. No one agreed to participate. ''It went over like a ton of bricks,'' Mr. Daly said.
Whatever the outcome in November, it almost certainly means a new era for those who made up Mr. Daly's base of support in San Francisco's blighted center.
Last week, Walter James, 47, a resident of the Mission Hotel for six years, recalled the day four years ago when Mr. Daly came by and shook his hand.
The encounter continues to leave an impression. Mr. James, who recently signed up to volunteer for Ms. Kim's campaign, said the race this year came down to one thing: ''To me, man, it's all about who's going to fill Chris Daly's shoes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Debra Walker, running for the District 6 seat on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, campaigned Tuesday on O'Farrell Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); COFFEE & TEA (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); TERM LIMITS (70%); LAWYERS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



176 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Home Economics

BYLINE: By JUDITH WARNER. 
Judith Warner is the author, most recently, of ''We've Got Issues: Children and Parents in the Age of Medication.''

 BODY:
Economists may assert that we're in the early stages of a recovery, but surveys continue to show that the impact of the Great Recession on American families is deep, widespread and grim. A Pew Research poll published last month indicated that more than half of all adults in the U.S. labor force had experienced some ''work-related hardship'' -- a period of unemployment, a pay cut, a reduction in work hours or an involuntary move to part-time employment -- since the recession began in December 2007. A report in March from the Population Reference Bureau showed that more than 70 percent of Americans age 40 and over felt they had been affected by the economic crisis. Government data indicate that the net worth of the average American household has shrunk by about 20 percent -- the greatest such decline since the end of World War II. Long-term unemployment -- joblessness lasting six months or more -- is also at its highest level since the mid-1940s. According to recent data from the Rockefeller Institute, 20 percent of Americans have seen their available household income decline by 25 percent or more. 
And yet, despite this bleak reality, some talk persists of silver linings: less cash to spend means less materialism, a real change to ''the definition of living well,'' as Jim Taylor, a vice president of Harrison Group, a market research firm in Waterbury, Conn., told The Times as the big banks melted down in the fall of 2008. At that time, unemployed Wall Street dads were said to be discovering the unexpected joys of domesticity. Minivan moms in the summertime learned that days at the public beach were just as rewarding as playing tennis while the kids improved themselves at foreign-language camp. The glue of all this new happiness was meant to be togetherness -- a belief that still sustains reports that people are volunteering more, pulling together and even replacing their propensity to compete with their neighbors with a new spirit of cooperation and solidarity. ''There's a new level of social coordination,'' says Dan Ariely, a behavioral economist at Duke University, relating to me how parents of his acquaintance recently agreed to a multilateral halt in the escalation of kid-birthday-party madness in favor of back-to-basics cake and balloons. ''In some areas of our life we're resetting. Over time, we may get de-escalation.''
This glass-half-full narrative, the popular trope that the Great Recession will ennoble us by purging us of our excesses, has, as its reference point, the Great Depression -- or a certain idea of the Great Depression. After all, we've been told countless times, the Depression put an end to the libertine individualism of the flapper age: families stayed home and played Monopoly, finding strength and sustenance with one another. Missing from this rosy picture, however, historians point out, is the fact that, as Steven Mintz, a Columbia University historian puts it, ''they had no choice.'' The atmosphere was often pretty rotten in those times of togetherness, he says, and many kids reacted by getting away from their parents as quickly as possible: ''Teenagers who were unhappy with their families created a separate culture, a teenage culture, for the first time. Their family lives were unpleasant -- their fathers were depressed -- these kids separated themselves.''
What the Great Depression was actually like -- mostly wretched -- and how we frequently choose to think of it -- as ultimately redemptive -- are two very different things. Our society didn't fully come together over the New Deal; the opposition to it was fierce. What would bring Americans their strongest sense of unity, a powerful sense of purpose and energy -- and ultimately, jobs and large-scale, life-bettering educational opportunities -- was the cataclysm of World War II, according to the historian Glen Elder Jr., author of the classic ''Children of the Great Depression.''
Our nostalgia for the Depression speaks volumes about how we feel not just about the past but also about our lives today. A craving for a simpler, slower, more centered life, one less consumed by the soul-emptying crush of getting and spending, runs deep within our culture right now. It was born of the boom, and not just because of the materialism of that era but also because of the work it took then to keep a family afloat, at a time of rising home prices and health care costs, frozen real wages and the pressures of an ever-widening income gap. As the recent Rockefeller report showed, for most families the miseries of the Great Recession don't represent a break from the recent past, just a significant worsening of the stresses they've been under for years and years.
That the Great Recession could then bring hope for a major recalibration -- a resetting of all the clocks -- is not surprising. Unfortunately, though, it's not happening in any meaningful way. The poor are getting poorer, and the rich, despite stock-market setbacks, are still comparatively rich. The most devastating losses in household wealth over the past two years have been suffered by the middle class. And families are fraying at the seams. The Pew poll showed nearly half of people who had been unemployed for more than six months saying their family relationships had become strained, and a New York Times/CBS poll of unemployed adults last winter found about 40 percent saying they believed their joblessness was causing behavioral change in their children.
Parents who have jobs are working longer hours than ever. Mothers are taking shorter maternity leaves. The birth rate is on the decline. The divorce rate is declining, too -- it's too expensive for people to break up their households -- but that's not necessarily a family-friendly thing, as a report from the Council on Contemporary Families noted in April: ''We know from the experience of the Great Depression of the 1930s that divorce rates can fall while family conflict and domestic violence rates rise.''
What came out of the combined experience of the Great Depression and World War II -- broad measures of quality-of-life equalization like a sharply progressive tax policy with rates on the wealthy unimaginable today, the G.I. Bill, government-subsidized home mortgages for veterans -- permitted the easier, less-frenzied middle class family life that older Americans remember from the 1950s and '60s and that younger Americans dream of. In other words, it wasn't individual families that reformed themselves after the crucible of the Depression. It was our society.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY SULTAN) GRAPHIC: 32% of adults in the labor force have been UNEMPLOYED at some point during the RECESSION. (GALERIE THOMAS ZANDER AND STE IDL. SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER, JULY 2010.)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY HUMAN EMPIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FAMILY (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); LABOR FORCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); TENNIS (68%); SPORTS (68%); WORLD WAR II (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010



177 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Your Tired, Your Poor and Their Food

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES. 
William Grimes, a domestic correspondent for The Times, is the author of ''Appetite City: A Culinary History of New York.''

 BODY:
97 ORCHARD
An Edible History of Five Immigrant Families in One New York Tenement
By Jane Ziegelman
Illustrated. 253 pp. Smithsonian Books/Harper/HarperCollins. $25.99
TWAIN'S FEAST
Searching for America's Lost Foods in the Footsteps of Samuel Clemens
By Andrew Beahrs
323 pp. The Penguin Press. $25.95
One of the first sights that greeted immigrants in New York, right after the Statue of Liberty, was a prune sandwich. The offending object appeared on the menu in the vast dining hall at Ellis Island, and it served as a warning that food was going to be a cultural struggle in this strange land. Keeping faith with their native cuisines, the newcomers made a series of counteroffers -- sauerkraut, spaghetti, borscht -- that changed the national palate forever. Jane Ziegelman tells this story exuberantly in ''97 Orchard: An Edible History of Five Immigrant Families in One New York Tenement.'' Highly entertaining and deceptively ambitious, the book resurrects the juicy details of breakfast, lunch and dinner (recipes included) consumed by poor and working-class New Yorkers a century and more ago. It could well have been subtitled ''How the Other Half Ate.'' 
The address is a conceit. Ninety-seven Orchard Street was a Lower East Side tenement building, constructed in the 1860s, that at different times housed the five families in the book: the Glockners (German), the Moores (Irish), the Gumpertzes (German Jewish) the Rogarshevskys (Lithuanian-Russian Jewish) and the Baldizzis (Italian). It is now the location of the Tenement Museum, where Ziegelman, the founder and director of a multiethnic cooking program for children, is in charge of a new culinary center.
The reader spends relatively little time in the building itself, however, since the historical record is terse on what its occupants ate from day to day. Poor immigrants did not often keep food diaries, and until the quite recent past, historians did not pay attention to such mundane matters either. Ziegelman uses the address as an organizing principle and a point of departure into the food cultures and food histories of its tenants. She starts with what's known about the circumstances of each of her families, then quickly exits 97 Orchard and steps onto the city streets, where she strolls among the stalls and carts of the markets, dines at lunchrooms and cheap restaurants, and eyes the display cases at local food shops.
The narrative moves through time, starting with a tailor, Lucas Glockner, who arrived from Germany in 1846 and later prospered enough to acquire a series of tenement properties, 97 Orchard Street among them. There he was both landlord and tenant. Through the Glockners, Ziegelman roams across Kleindeutschland, or Little Germany, an enclave whose coffee cake, pumpernickel bread and lager beer became popular throughout the city. In late October, the krauthobler, or cabbage-shaver, made his appearance. Equipped with a razor-sharp blade inserted into a stout board, he charged a penny a head to slice cabbages into the raw material for sauerkraut.
Ziegelman adroitly works her way through the decades and her five cuisines. Along the way, there are fascinating diversions. We learn quite a lot about the shipboard diet for 19th-century immigrants and the dining-hall menus at Ellis Island, which improved greatly after reforms by Theodore Roosevelt and the addition of a kosher kitchen in 1911. Ziegelman also pokes her nose into the Newsboys' Lodging Houses, examines the economics of pushcarts (2,500 of them on the Lower East Side in 1905) and takes an inquisitive look at boardinghouse cuisine.
Well-meaning do-gooders, in thrall to the latest theories about hygiene and healthful eating, worried that Jewish children ate too many pickles and that Italians were running severe health risks with their heedless consumption of olive oil and pasta. A misbegotten campaign to Americanize the foreign palate commenced, undertaken in settlement houses where domestic scientists explained the virtues of American food at its blandest. ''The cooking classes were only a modest success,'' Ziegelman writes of one such program. ''The reason was simple: the Jewish homemaker already knew how to cook.''
If Mark Twain had been consulted, the program might have worked. He loved the pure, unadulterated flavors of straight-ahead American cooking, a passion that provides Andrew Beahrs with the pretext for ''Twain's Feast: Searching for America's Lost Foods in the Footsteps of Samuel Clemens.''
This is a culinary stunt book fixated on the nostalgic list of American foods Twain included in his 1880 travel memoir, ''A Tramp Abroad.'' Homesick, hungry and appalled by European food, Twain hankered after ''a mighty porterhouse steak an inch and a half thick, hot and sputtering from the griddle; dusted with fragrant pepper; enriched with little melting bits of butter of the most unimpeachable freshness and genuineness.'' Among Twain's other primal American foods were fried oysters, Southern-style fried chicken, Saratoga potatoes (i.e., potato chips), hot buckwheat cakes and trout from Lake Tahoe. Beahrs made it his mission to chase down a fair number of them in their native habitats.
The result is a weird hybrid: part offbeat literary study, part ''Blue Highways'' travelogue, part slow-food manifesto in the Michael Pollan vein. At no point does it cohere, although chasing after Twain, on whatever excuse, can be lots of fun. For Beahrs, Twain is the great national grazer, sampling the simple culinary pleasures of a country soon to be overwhelmed by industrialized agriculture and ecological catastrophe. He's a locavore whose locale constantly shifts as he moves from the Midwestern prairie to the pristine West and, finally, to the cultivated environs of Hartford and the banquet circuit of Manhattan.
Beahrs sings loud and hard for his supper. He camps out in the predawn darkness in Illinois to observe the prairie chicken, an endangered member of the grouse family that once thrived in the Midwestern grasslands. He attends a Coon Supper in Arkansas -- raccoon tastes like the dark meat of a chicken with the texture of pot roast, we learn -- and visits a trout hatchery near Pyramid Lake in Nevada, an oyster-seeding project in San Francisco Bay, the Crescent City Farmers Market in New Orleans, a cranberry bog on Martha's Vineyard.
Twain recedes to the vanishing point as these expeditions take on lives of their own. Beahrs serves up mini-histories of staple American ingredients, laments their endangered status, enshrines them in period recipes and periodically lets loose a keening lament for the lost world of abundant, flavorful food. When the elegiac mood is upon him, Beahrs tends to be fatuous: ''Sometimes it's good not to get exactly what you want, whenever you want it; sometimes it's better to be open to what a season has to offer, to celebrate what's already there.''
These heartfelt public service announcements punctuate the book, and slow the narrative. Beahrs does much better in the role of goofy sidekick to Twain on his ramblings. The book needs more Huck, less hokum.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Preparing for the Sabbath in a coal cellar in New York, circa 1890
 a Jacob A. Riis photograph.(PHOTOGRAPH FROM MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, JACOB A. RIIS COLLECTION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); RESTAURANTS (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%)

TITLE: 97 Orchard: An Edible History of Five Immigrant Families in One New York Tenement (Book); Twain's Feast: Searching for America's Lost Foods in the Footsteps of Samuel Clemens (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



178 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3403 words

HEADLINE: Sketching A Future For Brooklyn Museum

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
THOUGH it resides in a prime example of traditional museum architecture -- a Beaux-Arts building designed in 1893 by McKim, Mead & White -- there is little stale or stodgy about the Brooklyn Museum.
For more than a century the museum has been one of the country's most important cultural institutions, and for more than a decade it has also courted controversy.
And that is by design, part of a considered effort to address the challenges that it, along with many other museums, face: how to appeal to a new generation in a climate of persistent financial pressure and the ambition to grow, to do more, to expand its audience. By some measures it has succeeded. By others, including attendance goals articulated by the museum itself, it has not.
With a stagnant economy magnifying these challenges, The New York Times asked experts with various perspectives, including artists, business executives and museum directors, to take a look at a number of questions that now confront the Brooklyn Museum and others. Is attendance a good measure of museum success? How do institutions build financial support at a time when both donors and the government feel pinched? Should a museum do more to engage its local artists, who, in Brooklyn's case, are an especially vibrant group? And how should the unorthodox approach of the last decade be assessed? 
In 1999 the museum created a maelstrom by exhibiting a painting that depicted the Virgin Mary decorated with elephant dung, prompting the mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, to threaten to cut city financing. In 2002 it hosted an exhibition featuring props, models, costumes and characters from the ''Star Wars'' films that struck some reviewers as particularly lowbrow. And five years ago it added an unapologetically brash, modern glass entrance to the Old World exterior of its building.
More recently it gave away its celebrated costume collection to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and did away with traditional curatorial departments -- like Egyptian art, African art and European painting -- in favor of ''teams'' for exhibitions and collections. It included a Louis Vuitton shop in its Takashi Murakami exhibition, including handbags and other items designed by that artist. And it agreed to devote an exhibition this month to the work of whichever unknown artist beats back the challengers on Bravo's reality show ''Work of Art.''
For many, the museum's often populist efforts have been just the kind of inventive risks necessary to stay accessible to the kind of visitors it has recently shown an ability to attract. The museum's audience, which numbered 340,000 people a year at last count, is now significantly younger and more diverse than it had been, with an average age of 35 and members of minority groups making up 40 percent of its visitors. Others grumble, though, that the institution's approach has undermined its stature, undersold its world-class collections and done little to increase attendance, which museum officials had once hoped would triple. Attendance, in fact, has been flat, even after the museum several years ago introduced First Saturdays -- free nights that include music, dancing, food, a cash bar, gallery talks and films -- which account for nearly a quarter of its visitors.
Apart from the discussion over its mission and future, the museum, which operates on a $28 million budget, has had many successes in recent years, from educating school children, to mounting critically acclaimed shows and introducing countless visitors to paintings by Gilbert Stuart, landscapes by Bierstadt, the mummy of Demetrios and other works in its permanent collection.
Many of the experts who agreed to assess the museum's efforts were effusive in their support for the institution, whose innovations they embraced. Others suggested changes in its approach.
Many expressed compassion for the challenge faced by the museum's director, Arnold L. Lehman, who confronts these obstacles while working in the shadow of Manhattan and its cultural behemoths like the Metropolitan Museum and the Museum of Modern Art.
Taken together the responses speak to the passionate feelings that continue to be stirred by the Brooklyn Museum. They are not meant to provide a definitive solution or to resolve debate. They are intended to start a conversation.
PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO, former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art
The problem with Brooklyn is that it's competing with the Guggenheim, the Whitney, the Met, MoMA, all the galleries, El Museo del Barrio -- you name it. I don't know of any museum so marginalized by its locality and demographic change. The Detroit Institute of Arts and the Cleveland Museum of Art are struggling. But at least those institutions are the one thing in town, so you can still promote them as, ''Come and see great works of art.''
I'm glad I'm not its director. It's a very difficult job, and I wouldn't rush to blame Arnold Lehman; he's trying his best. But trying to change the nature of the institution so as to accommodate one's conception of popular taste doesn't work.
Part of the turnaround would be to declare, not only rhetorically but also by action, ''This is a great museum and an opportunity to see great works of art.'' The message here is that a major encyclopedic museum, one born like the Met or the Louvre along the values of the Enlightenment, flirts with popularization and the espousal of so-called popular culture at its own risk. Therein lies a paradox. I suspect that, in fact, what most museum visitors crave is some form of uplift, an experience to get them away from the humdrum of daily life in favor of an encounter with something unique, thus unreplicable. They don't just want to step into the museum as they would into a mall, but to experience a real transition from the street to the institution.
I think the current glass entrance defeats that very purpose and the exhilaration felt when a person who wasn't brought up in a mansion is able to walk into a mansion. By taking away the majesty of the entrance, they've taken away the majesty of the experience. I would take it away, if I could.
I would stress the sense of privilege people in the area should feel at being able to see great old master paintings, great American pictures without having to go into Manhattan. Promotion would stress: ''You don't have to go to Manhattan to see one of the world's great collections. We have it here in Brooklyn.''
When you have a collection of this magnitude -- art from most parts of the world, often at a very high level -- your responsibility is not just a communal one. Of course you have to emphasize service to the community. But danger always lurks when a museum is regarded first and foremost as an instrument of social engineering. A museum of the stature of Brooklyn should care for and research and publish the collections, which it holds in trust for humanity, and which I have no reason to believe it does not do, but also accompany its collections with programs that are equal to that stature and the obligations that come with it. Great museums are not just for the people who live within 20 miles. You are not the owners. You are the privileged guardians or custodians of the artistic heritage of all mankind.
I cannot believe the community would not rise to the opportunity and joy of seeing great collections displayed properly -- as a stated attraction, not an unexpected encounter. I am inclined to be indulgent and indeed to praise Arnold's willingness to experiment and to place the accent on the museum as a Brooklyn institution. The key question is whether Brooklyn really wants something different from everywhere else, something watered down, something slanted more to popular culture than to high culture. Much of this is a matter of style and perception in the message conveyed. The art is there, after all, so perhaps major retooling is to be in the message, not so much the medium. I don't know, and it's easy to talk, isn't it?
KAREN BROOKS HOPKINS, president of the Brooklyn Academy of Music
The museum doesn't deserve a barrage of criticism. Let's face it: When you work in Brooklyn, or anywhere outside of Manhattan, the stakes are simply different. When you have a great show (and I mean great), the place is packed. When you only have a very good show, the place isn't always packed.
Programs like Target First Saturdays are wonderful and help to introduce new audiences to the organization. But when all is said and done, a hit show delivers the goods every time. Is this easy to do? Of course not! The world of art is completely unpredictable, and the cost of presenting a big show can be daunting. Therefore I believe a good programming strategy that won't break the bank is one that focuses on bringing together a combination of new discoveries and blockbusters featuring well-known artists, all within the same season.
After all the talk, however, those of us toiling here in Brooklyn know that you have to earn it every day. Some seasons are just better than others; 365 days a year, no matter what's happening inside, the Metropolitan Museum has thousands of people on its front steps. It's the location, it's the scope of the collection -- it's the Met! But for those organizations outside of the mainstream the world of attendance and financing is a very different place. Although many Brooklyn neighborhoods have had an influx of new residents, the population density and philanthropic capacities of Manhattan remain enormous by comparison. But while our numbers may sometimes be smaller, the demographics are unbeatable: Brooklyn audiences are young, diverse and adventurous, which has enormous positive implications for the future.
I like to think that this struggle to succeed is what pushes us and gives us our edge. It makes working in Brooklyn just a little bit tougher, but, at the end of the day, somehow more rewarding.
WILLIAM POWHIDA, Brooklyn artist
Some of the problems facing the museum may be beyond its control because of the recession and beyond my experience as an artist. What is in its control, and an area I feel strongly about, is its identity, or for a lack of a better term, its ''brand.'' The museum has tarnished its reputation by ceding too much institutional control to outsiders, with Charles Saatchi's ''Sensation,'' the commercial artist Takashi Murakami's boutique and now Bravo's ''Work of Art'' prize show. These efforts tend to dominate the conversation and de-emphasize the museum's role in otherwise strong, scholarly exhibitions and educational outreach.
I would restore some of the museum's institutional control and relevance by developing a flagship survey show of contemporary art in Brooklyn. The museum has tried that only once in the last decade, with 2004's ''Open House,'' which was unfortunately poorly installed. It was still an important opportunity for the museum to engage one of its greatest assets, artists working in Brooklyn, and insert itself into the conversation about contemporary art that New York obsesses over.
Bushwick and Gowanus both have vibrant artist communities, just to name two, evidenced by the some 300 shows at the recent Bushwick Open Studios. The Brooklyn Museum needs to be part of the debate about contemporary art, not one about commercial tie-ins like ''Work of Art.'' I know there are significant financing and installation challenges posed by surveys, but in the long term it's all about the perception of the museum, one that can be progressive, relevant and home to a world-class permanent collection.
ROCHELLE SLOVIN, director of the Museum of the Moving Image
What's bugging people about the Brooklyn Museum? Is there any good reason not to embrace First Saturdays? If international D.J.'s are O.K. for P.S.1 Contemporary Art Center, and string quartets are judged suitable for late nights at the Metropolitan Museum, then what exactly is the objection to hip-hop and salsa at the Brooklyn Museum? My advice to the Brooklyn Museum: Continue to take excellent care of your treasured collections, hang tough, and pile it on -- more great exhibitions, more performances, more joyful noise.
DANIEL SIMMONS JR., chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts
The museum is an incredible institution that continues to be vibrant and innovative. However, it has fallen short in developing a core identity and marketing this effectively. The museum should brand itself as a contemporary-art museum with more shows geared to artists who are defining the global art scene. While this might not garner record attendance, it would produce a stable core audience on which to build. I applaud its public programs, like First Saturdays, but those should be seen as just that, a civic service and not an attendance and marketing strategy. Revenues should not be the principal driver of programs, and many shows have been perceived to be just that. Not great public relations for a serious institution.
ANN PHILBIN, director of the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles
Attendance is simply one measure in a long list of priorities--some of which are very hard to quantify. For example, how does one measure the impact of showing a young artist for the first time and starting his or her career, or the ramifications of capturing the imaginations of young at-risk school groups?
Furthermore, how is attendance defined? At the Hammer we have begun to understand that our visitor numbers should not be limited to our own box office but might also include the hundreds of thousands of people aroun the world who log on to our Web site, hammer.ucla.edu, to view podcasts of our public programs, or the many thousands currently visiting the Charles Burchfield retrospective at the Whitney Museum of American Art, which the Hammer organized. Are these not all part of a measurable sphere of audience and influence?
MAXWELL L. ANDERSON, director of the Indianapolis Museum of Art
With a national average of 2 percent to 4 percent of art museum revenue coming from admissions, the distracting glitter of crowds is not as material to institutional health as most people assume. Instead of being evaluated for their contributions to research, preservation and education, art museums like the Brooklyn Museum are increasingly expected to be commercial attractions and economic engines.
The museum's future, like that of libraries, universities and other art museums beyond tourist meccas, lies in making a case for government, foundation and individual patronage by being a hotbed of creativity. Not by making a case for the box office.
MICHAEL M. KAISER, president of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
The museum has done more than most arts organizations to build a diverse audience; that may be far more important to its management than increasing attendance steadily each year. In the end it is the mission of the organization that determines how success will be measured.
MARTY MARKOWITZ, Brooklyn borough president
The museum has developed unprecedented audience diversity at a time when so many cultural centers struggle and hire consultants to expand their audiences. It has among the most important permanent collections in the nation and has used its estimable curatorial resources to mount great exhibitions that have traveled to other museums nationwide. Thus, it is both a multicultural gathering place and a tremendous Brooklyn export.
GRAHAM W. J. BEAL, director of the Detroit Institute of Arts
Along with Brooklyn, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and, increasingly, others, the Detroit Institute of Arts has been accused of ''dumbing down'' and ''Disneyfication.'' I am, from time to time, described as leading the United States' most challenged institution, and it is true that we labor under many adverse conditions. But at least I do not have an art museum that is a world exemplar sitting across the river in Windsor, Ontario. Arnold is in an invidious position, and has tried to create a very different type of museum on the proverbial shoestring.
BILL IVEY, former chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts
Brooklyn needs to control costs and focus on growing its local audience, perhaps by developing an annual exhibition on a Brooklyn theme. Second, figure out how simultaneously to place the museum's unique collection in front of fine-arts fans everywhere. Mounting strong traditional exhibitions, while serving Brooklyn day to day, means guest curators and touring, touring, touring. Oh, and don't promise to triple attendance anytime soon.
DAVID A. ROSS, former director of the Whitney Museum of American Art
The Brooklyn Museum is far from alone in its attempts to come to grips with a society in which not just change but also the relentless rate of change creates new problems and opportunities daily. Will it make mistakes as it tries one new idea after another? Of course it will. But in the same way that great artists do not fear failure, it continues to push forward, finding new ways of serving its rapidly changing audience. Nothing would be worse than a risk-averse museum, so fully confident that it holds all the answers that it simply bores us to death.
STEPHEN A. SCHWARZMAN, chairman of the Blackstone Group, the private equity firm
To succeed, the museum has to instill the same feeling of pride that New Yorkers feel about other institutions that make this city great, from Central Park to Yankee Stadium. With its collection, among the best in the world, there is no reason why the museum cannot reclaim this role.
WENDA GU, Brooklyn artist
Attendance is the most important and objective measurement of the museum. It is also the only measurement of a museum's success.
LAURIE BECKELMAN, former chairwoman of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission
I do not think this is a time to instigate cost-savings measures like cutting hours of operation or public programs. Rather it is a time for trustees to be bold and to contribute at higher levels to ensure that the programs -- and the institution -- endure. I also believe the museum's future lies in finding ways to get international visual artists to come to Brooklyn.
KIKI SMITH, artist
Attendance is not necessarily a good measure of museum success. The quality of its collection, its administrative vision, the depth of its scholarly programming and its curatorial direction are. The nature of capitalism is dependent on growth, but it is not inherently in a museum's interest to expand.
PETER C. MARZIO, director of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston
The Brooklyn Museum is pioneering a new path that many older encyclopedic museums will have to follow if they want to survive. It is transforming itself into an ecumenical museum by focusing its collections and programs on the diverse neighborhoods of Brooklyn.
By looking closely at Brooklyn, by exploring the ideals and values of its citizens, the museum is opening a dialogue that is creating a sense of community ownership. Progress is slow and uneven, but this is a new path with few directional signs. To judge the results by attendance is to miss the new trees for the forest.
One example is the free Target First Saturdays event held on July 3. A record 24,000 people entered the museum. The dynamics were incredible. Diverse patrons interacted to create a beautiful portrait of Brooklyn. This is a new paradigm. Critics who denounce this as populism (a word that somewhere along the way has become negative) miss the point. The museum does not have a large endowment or sufficient government financing, nor does it have the cash flow provided by millions of tourists. It cannot ignore the grass roots of its communities because those communities are the base audiences.
Will the museum survive following this path? I will bet that not only will it survive these difficult economic times, but it will also mutate into a new type of museum that will grow beyond anyone's imagination.
RICO GATSON, Brooklyn artist
Some of my most amazing art experiences have been at the museum, both as an exhibiting artist and as a visitor to the spectacular collection of Egyptian art and shows like ''Andy Warhol: The Last Decade,'' ''Kiki Smith: Sojourn'' and ''Basquiat.'' Brooklyn is host to the world's most vibrant group of artists, and it would make sense for the museum to devote itself to providing a forum for these contemporary artists. High-profile exhibitions like the Whitney Biennial could draw from this pool and stimulate interest, which could energize this fine institution.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR22
 AR23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (63%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (63%); LVMH (BIT) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (63%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (63%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



179 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Food (Truck) Fight: Putting Griddle To the Metal

BYLINE: By JOSH EELLS

 BODY:
GET Matt Chernus going on the subject of food trucks -- those big refrigerated chuck wagons that frequent construction sites and late-night watering holes -- and he could be a 6-year-old describing his favorite Tonka. ''They're just cool,'' Mr. Chernus, a tattooed former professional wrestler, said the other day. ''They're big. They're really noisy. They're cool to look at. I drove by three new trucks in Hollywood today, and I got so excited. I was like a little kid.''
Mr. Chernus was on the phone from Los Angeles, where he has a food truck of his own: a heavy-metal-themed hamburger joint called Grill 'Em All (a pun on the title of the Metallica album ''Kill 'Em All''; picture a black U.P.S. truck plastered with cartoons of Vikings and wizards, and you pretty much have the idea). ''We call her the Beast,'' said Ryan Harkins, Mr. Chernus's friend, sometime band mate and business partner. ''She's beautiful.'' 
A few months back the two men gassed up the Beast and hit the road. The occasion was the filming of a new reality series, set to make its debut next Sunday on the Food Network, that hopes to do for food trucks what ''Jersey Shore'' did for tans.
The show is called ''The Great Food Truck Race.'' Seven specialty food trucks -- home-style Cajun, fine-dining French, pressed sandwiches, Vietnamese banh mis, crepes, hamburgers and banana pudding -- will set off on a six-week road trip from Los Angeles to New York, stopping along the way to peddle their grub. The teams who sell the most food advance to the next town; the losers pack up their fryers and head home. As the celebrity chef Tyler Florence, who hosts the show, put it recently, ''It's like 'Cannonball Run' with food trucks.''
We're living in a food-truck moment. Thanks to a booming gastro-culture and an economy gone bust, America's streets are filled as never before with high-quality meals on wheels. Tacos and shwarma give way to artisanal ice cream and escargot; devoted chowhounds track their favorite trucks on Twitter; and enterprising young chefs bypass storefronts for a good curb. This year Food & Wine even named one vendor (Roy Choi of the Kogi BBQ truck of Los Angeles) one of 2010's Best New Chefs. ''There's no stigma anymore,'' said Nate Appleman, the chef at the haute New York pizzeria Pulino's (and a guest judge on ''Race''), brushing aside a question about ''roach coaches'' and ''street meat.'' ''For young chefs street food has a lot of appeal.''
For programmers too, apparently. Bob Tuschman, general manager of the Food Network, said he's received dozens of pitches for truck-related shows over the past two years, more than any other topic. ''Food trucks echo a lot of the themes that we as a network believe in,'' he said: accessibility, affordability, what he called ''a diversity of food voices.'' ''We definitely wanted to jump on the trend.'' And the network picked this approach because of the competition, which shows what vendors really deal with daily, and the travel component, which introduces food trucks to areas where they aren't well known.
Strictly speaking, the show is not a race. Each week the trucks roll into in a new city, where their first stop is the health department for inspections and permits. They then spend 72 frantic hours scrambling to secure parking spots, shopping for ingredients, promoting their wares (no Twitter or Facebook allowed), cooking their food and, finally, selling as much of it as possible.
''They're basically rebuilding their business from scratch every episode,'' said Brian Lando, the Food Network's director of programming. The production crew even went so far as to search each truck before the competitions, lest anyone try and smuggle in some leftover buns.
For this first season there was no application process -- only invitations. Some of the teams are relatively established, like the Nom Nom Truck, three chirpy graduates from the University of California, Los Angeles, whose Vietnamese sandwiches have graced trend articles and glossy magazine spreads. Then there are upstarts, like Austin Daily Press, three charmingly slackerish sandwich artists from Texas (motto: ''As Toasted as You Are'') whose biggest challenge was adjusting to the daytime shooting schedule. ''We usually work from 8 p.m. to 3 a.m.,'' said Amy Hildenbrand, the truck's chef. ''Serving sober people'' is hard, she said.
Veteran reality viewers will recognize familiar scenes: ''Survivor''-style immunity challenges, tearful eliminations. But for the most part the story lines mirror the obstacles the trucks face in real life. Tires go flat. Generators conk out. Angry neighbors complain. Cops are called. In the first episode one truck ends up sidelined for the better part of a day because the team members forget to buy extra propane.
But by far the biggest X factor was the trucks themselves. Twenty feet long and six-plus tons, they sometimes have trouble crossing an intersection, much less the country. Mechanical issues abound. In anticipation, the producers brought along a mechanic for tune-ups and repairs. ''He was a busy man,'' Mr. Lando said.
Of course the most interesting breakdowns aren't the kind that happen under a hood. ''I think it's impossible to have three people cooped up in a food truck with 100-degree heat and splattering oil and customers yelling at you, and not feel the strain,'' Mr. Tuschman said. In other words: There will be beef, and not just in the burgers.
''Some of the teams definitely imploded,'' Mr. Harkins said. Alliances were made, then broken; teams squabbled with other teams; teams squabbled among themselves. ''You watch lifelong friendships absolutely fall apart,'' Mr. Florence said. ''It's pretty hard core.''
(There were happier moments as well. The Grill 'Em All guys, for instance, grew so close to the Austin truck folks that they had each other's company logos tattooed on their arms.)
In the end, despite all the culinary misadventures, network executives hope the show will leave adventurous viewers hungry to explore more, and perhaps even inspire a new generation of chefs.
Mr. Tuschman said he imagined a viewer who might have ''a great food idea'' but lacks the means to open his or her own restaurant. ''Maybe they'll think: 'You know what? Maybe I could open a food truck.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, from left, some of the delectables devised by competitors on the Food Network reality show ''The Great Food Truck Race.'' Above left, a truck crew in action
 above right, the famished hordes eager for sustenance. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM FOOD NETWORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); MEALS ON WHEELS (73%); ICE CREAM (66%); REALITY TELEVISION (65%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (64%); RETAILERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: The Great Food Truck Race (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



180 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: The View From Alcoa

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''A Sin and a Shame'' (column, July 31): 
I take issue with Bob Herbert's characterization of Alcoa as putting profits over people. When the global recession hit, aluminum prices crashed 57 percent and demand fell through the floor, forcing Alcoa to curtail some operations and to sell others. Those actions, while difficult, stabilized the company and preserved thousands of jobs, both within Alcoa and in the operations we sold.
Today Alcoa is carefully adjusting employment levels -- up and down -- commensurate with today's economic realities. Maximizing efficiency under all economic conditions not only promotes profitability, but is also the best way to protect the jobs of our remaining 60,000 employees.
It is ironic that Mr. Herbert's accusation came two days after Alcoa announced the recall of 159 laid-off employees at our Davenport, Iowa, facility.
Nicholas J. Ashooh V.P., Corporate Affairs, Alcoa New York, Aug. 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (56%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (90%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (90%); AA (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (77%) IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



181 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 4138 words

HEADLINE: In the Name of the Father

BYLINE: By PAT JORDAN. 
Pat Jordan is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
''He is very, very introverted,'' a publicist says. ''He lives alone. He plays video games by himself eight hours at a clip. He's a multimillionaire, yet he lived alone for months in a 20-by-20 garage loft.'' The publicist makes him out to be the Howard Hughes of Nascar.
Dale Earnhardt Jr., who is 35, has been the most famous driver in Nascar, and most beloved by fans, over the past eight years, and yet he has almost vanished from sight in Nascar winner circles. He has not won at Nascar's top level since 2008. Last year, his worst ever, he finished 25th out of 72 Nascar drivers in the final standings -- a sad comedown for a driver who was once a kind of Elvis of his sport, the winner of 15 races in his first five full seasons, starting in 2000. So this season would seem to be pivotal for Earnhardt, because it may well determine whether he reclaims his position as Nascar royalty -- his father, Dale Earnhardt Sr., was one of Nascar's greatest drivers -- or sink for good into midpack anonymity, grinding out one frustrating race after another as he pushes 40, the equivalent of Elvis as a second-rate Vegas lounge crooner. 
By early July, Earnhardt was driving better than he had in years. On July 2, Earnhardt won his first race in years, a Nationwide Series race -- a level below the Sprint Cup Series, the top division in Nascar -- when he drove a tribute car painted with his father's No. 3. Earnhardt called it an ''emotional'' victory because of everything his father had meant to his career and because he had finally gotten his career back on track, after years of frustration. The following night, he finished fourth in the Sprint Cup Series at Daytona with a nifty bit of driving through a 19-car crash on the 148th lap. By the 20th race of the season, in late July, he was in 14th place in the Nascar Sprint Cup Championship standings. That puts him in a good position to be one of the dozen drivers who get to compete for the Nascar Sprint Cup Championship. Only those ranked in the top 12 after the first 26 races qualify for the championship, which will be determined by the last 10 races, including the final one at Homestead, Fla., on Nov. 21.
Back in mid-February, at the Daytona 500, a good season seemed to be presaged by what was possibly his finest racing ever. Earnhardt's fans were standing and screaming so loudly that, according to Rick Hendrick, who owns the team Earnhardt races with, ''For the first time in my life, I couldn't hear the roar of engines over the crowd noise.'' Earnhardt was in 10th place with two laps to go when he began weaving in and out of traffic, through spaces between cars that, Earnhardt said, ''were not big enough for a radiator to get through. It was a blur. I just held the gas pedal down and prayed.'' Although he finished second in that race, a few weeks later he told me: ''It was the best driving I'd done in the last three years. I was so proud.'' Hendrick said at the time, ''He has his swagger and his confidence back.''
Like most businesses, Nascar has suffered during this recession. It has lost TV viewers (15 percent between 2008 and 2009), paying fans (at the Brickyard 400 this year, attendance was down by some 100,000) and sponsorships, Nascar's main source of money. Teams have folded or consolidated. Blue-collar Nascar fans have been hurt most by the recession, which is why the price of race tickets has been cut by as much as 50 percent. Furthermore, fans no longer identify with their favorite car brands -- Ford, Chevy, Dodge -- because today's cars are essentially identical race cars, not souped-up street cars that fans can buy off showroom floors as they could 40 and 50 years ago. This evolution was the idea of Bill France Jr., the longtime C.E.O. of Nascar: promote the driver, not the car. Fans want a hero, he said. For 20 years one of those heroes was Dale Earnhardt Sr., and then for the next 8 his son has been one. So myriad publicists watch over him as if he were a crown prince because Nascar has a huge vested interest in Earnhardt, perhaps its greatest money-producing driver.
For the past seven years, Nascar fans have voted Earnhardt Jr. their favorite driver. He has appeared on ''The Tonight Show With Jay Leno,'' hosted his own TV show, ''Back in the Day,'' and handed out an award at the Country Music Awards ceremony. He makes millions of dollars a year racing, and he earns another $10 million endorsing the likes of Adidas, Nationwide Insurance and Wrangler jeans, and for selling merchandise with his name, face, car number and signature on it. His crew chief, Lance McGrew, described him to me as ''the Pied Piper of Nascar.'' ''If Dale's not running good in a race, fans turn the channel. He's Nascar's most important marketing tool.'' Mark Martin, Earnhardt's racing teammate, told me, ''Junior has the weight of Nascar world on his shoulders.''
Over the phone, I spoke to Earnhardt in February after the Daytona 500, and he talked to me about a coming race in Atlanta and then told me he was barbecuing tacos with his crew. ''With cold Bud in the cooler?'' I asked. He laughed. We talked about cold Budweiser and good whiskey like Jim Beam Black. ''What's Jim Beam Black, sir?'' he said. I began to tell him, and we talked about spirits, but he was distracted by someone whispering to him, his publicist. When he spoke again, he said: ''Please don't write that, sir, about the whiskey. I'm getting looks I could get in trouble.''
In early January, I visited Earnhardt in Mooresville, N.C., a few miles from where he grew up and where he now lives. We were standing in the shadows behind a bank of cameras in a studio where he was being filmed for a National Guard commercial urging students to study hard so they can, like him, ''cross the finish line first.'' He stood under bright lights, resting his elbow insouciantly on the front fender of his garishly painted race car, co-sponsored by AMP Energy Drink and the National Guard. He was wearing his one-piece racing suit, like fire-retardant onesie jammies, and his slipper-soft racing sneakers. He smiled faintly at the cameras and said in a soft North Carolina accent, ''Hi, I'm Dale Earnhardt and I drive --'' A woman's voice behind the camera called out, ''Could you bring it up two notches?'' He muttered an expletive.
His publicist whispered to me, ''The bad news is, he'll only give you a half-hour now.'' A week earlier, she told me I could have ''a few hours'' with him; later, the day I left for Mooresville, she amended that to ''one hour.'' (In the end, we wound up talking for a couple of hours.) Not much had changed over the years: the first time I met Earnhardt, seven years ago, he was trailed by a posse of handlers, who sat in chairs, on the bed and cross-legged on the floor of my hotel room, parsing my every question before allowing him to speak.
At the time, he was racing a car for Dale Earnhardt Inc., owned and run by his stepmother, Teresa Earnhardt. Today he races for Hendrick Motorsports, along with Jimmie Johnson, who is 34, Mark Martin, 51, and Jeff Gordon, 39. Just as he was then, Earnhardt is cosseted by publicists, not only because he is a painfully shy interview but also because he is startlingly direct and honest.
His father, Dale Earnhardt Sr., grew up hardscrabble in Kannapolis, N.C., dropped out of school in ninth grade, married and had kids as a teenager and spent his early race years hustling odd jobs as a mechanic, welder, anything in order to put together a stake to keep his race cars running. He was an aggressive driver, one short step from a dirty driver. His fans called him the Man in Black, Big E, the Intimidator and Ironhead. He began his career in 1975 and was the last of a line of irascible, hard-nosed, old-timey drivers going back to moonshiners outrunning revenuers over mountain roads. Earnhardt Sr. was beloved because he started poor, like his fans, was ruthless on the track and a winner. Today many of the best Nascar drivers, like Jimmie Johnson and Jeff Gordon, are not Southerners at all (both are from California) and are clean-shaven, well-spoken men who never banged around dilapidated race cars on red clay tracks.
Big E won 76 Winston Cup races during his career, and seven Cup championships, a record he holds with Richard Petty. After his death on Feb. 18, 2001, from a seemingly minor crash into a wall during the Daytona 500, the cult of Big E grew. His fans voted him their favorite driver, for the first time, posthumously. They remembered where they were, what they were doing, on the day he died. Then they bestowed on his son the nicknames Junior, Little E and, sometimes disparagingly, the Imitator. At the time of his father's death, in the beginning of his second full season, Junior was not yet a successful driver, but his father's death seemed to energize Earnhardt's racing for Dale Earnhardt Inc. At that point, without his father in a race, Earnhardt ''felt invincible,'' he said at the time. ''I just felt I couldn't be touched.'' He won 13 races after his father's death. He began to disparage his father's fans, calling them ''sick'' and ''retarded.'' He even tried to distance himself from the Nascar trinity of Wal-Mart, hunting and country music. His tastes ran more toward rap and hard rock (he is a fan of Staind), and his idea of diversion was to photograph the Dahm triplets for Playboy's Web site.
In 2006, Earnhardt had a highly publicized falling out with his stepmother, Teresa Earnhardt, who inherited D.E.I. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, she said that her stepson ''has to decide whether he wants to be a Nascar driver or whether he wants to be a public personality'' and a merchandising tool for Nascar. Finally, amid much recrimination, Earnhardt left the smaller, folksier D.E.I. after the 2007 season to race for the more high-tech and corporate Hendrick Motorsports. (Teresa, not Dale, is the Earnhardt involved with Earnhardt-Ganassi Racing, whose driver Jamie McMurray just won the Brickyard 400 and, in February, the Daytona 500.)
Soon, Earnhardt's star was falling. It was as if Nascar had passed him by. His teammate at Hendrick Motorsports, Jimmie Johnson, has won the past four Nascar Cups. Mark Martin, a contemporary of the senior Earnhardt and the winner of 48 races, finished second to Johnson last year. Jeff Gordon, winner of four Nascar championships, finished third. Earnhardt finished 25th and was described as Hendrick Motorsports's ''forgotten man.''
After the National Guard shoot at the beginning of this year, Earnhardt came over, slapped me on the back, shook my hand and said: ''Aw, you look the same. I'll be with you in a bit. I got some things to do.'' He changed into street clothes and conducted a telephone interview in an empty room. He paced back and forth as he said, ''The funnest part for me is the racing.'' As the interview dragged on, he seemed to get bored, and his answers were clipped. ''Yep,'' he said. ''Aw, hell.''
When he got off the phone, he said to me: ''It's hard to maintain your cool dealin' with three or four P.R. people. People think I'm always pickin' my next move. Hell, I have no marketing savvy. I just do what I'm told. It's frustrating to hear I should decide whether I want to be a race-car driver or a marketing tool. In Nascar I have to be both.''
I pointed to a '70s bachelor-pad orange-and-burgundy sectional velvet sofa with aluminum legs. He smiled. ''It came out of my house. I kinda like old things.'' That goes for old drivers, too, his sister Kelley says: ''Dale respects older guys for their experience'' -- like Rick Hendrick, who is in his 60s, a soft-spoken, white-haired man. Hendrick says, ''Dale likes retro uniforms and racing nostalgia other young guys don't care about.'' He adds, ''He gives me some things that I need.'' Earlier in his career, Earnhardt was good friends with Hendrick's son, Ricky, also a driver. Then, in 2004, Ricky, his uncle John and John's twin daughters were killed in a light-plane crash on their way to a race. It devastated his father. ''Dale and I have a special understanding,'' Hendrick says. ''I lost a son, and he lost a father. And, yes, he does come to me for personal advice.''
The only other Hendrick Motorsports team member Earnhardt consults with personally is Mark Martin, who has been racing for almost 30 years. ''Dale's different than the young guys today,'' Martin says. ''He's raw, unrefined, which appeals to his fans. He's way above average showing respect to older statesmen. He doesn't have a whole lot in common with guys like Jimmie Johnson.''
For his part, Johnson says, ''Some days he'll chat me up, some days he acts like he doesn't see me.'' Johnson goes on to say: ''Being around a lot of people, that's not his comfort zone. I feel for him that things aren't going his way. I'd love to help him, but he doesn't ask for my advice.''
Earnhardt and I were sitting on the sofa talking; his publicist sat on another sofa. We talked for two hours, while his publicist fidgeted, casting expectant glances at us. Earnhardt said nobody calls him Junior or Little E anymore, except his fans. ''That's off my back,'' he said. He looked down at his hands while he talked. When I asked him why he races, he said: ''I didn't want to work for a living. What the hell am I gonna do with my life as Dale Earnhardt's son if I don't race? I was a mechanic in Dad's dealership at 18, and those were some of my happiest days. But my name was Dale Earnhardt Jr., man. Working as a mechanic would've been a real pain. People saying: 'What happened to you? You're Dale Earnhardt's son.' ''
When he began racing in his 20s, the problem was, he said, ''I didn't think I had what it took. It's a dreadful feeling.'' Kelley says of her little brother: ''I never thought he had it in him to be a driver. When we were kids, I drove a four-wheeler into a tree, and he was so scared he refused to ride with me anymore. As a boy, he'd rather play with model cars or watch football on TV. Then he'd dress into his football uniform and go outside. But he never played football. Now, as a driver, he's 180 degrees opposite.''
Earnhardt's difficulties at Hendrick Motorsports are varied and subtle and have little to do with his actual driving ability. It has been a painful transition for him from Dale Earnhardt Inc. to the more high-tech and disciplined Hendrick Motorsports team. As Gordon put it to me: ''It was eye-opening for Dale, the level of intensity at HMS. How hard everyone works. Jimmie works out at a gym five times a week. He pays attention to details.'' For his part, Earnhardt says: ''I try to keep in shape, eat right, lift weights. But I don't do it all the time.'' He adds: ''Jimmie hardly ever makes a step without thinking how it's gonna affect his racing. But I don't believe in living like that. I'd have to become a different person. I'm not willing to devote that much to it.''
One of Earnhardt's greatest problems at Hendrick Motorsports has been his inability to communicate to his crew chief what's happening with his car during a race so his crew can make adjustments during pit stops. At D.E.I., he was in a cocoon of family and friends who intuited his monosyllabic responses. According to Lance McGrew, Jimmie Johnson ''breaks his car's handling down into 10 sections going into a corner. Dale's more old school. He'll just say, 'It's loose.' I have to prod him. He's not analytical. He doesn't relay what he thinks in words. When something's bothering him, I can see it in his driving. It gets snatchier, he's not as smooth on the throttle or brakes.''
When Earnhardt moved from D.E.I. to Hendrick Motorsports, he took with him his cousin and crew chief, Tony Eury Jr. They grew up together, but at Hendrick Motorsports they had problems: missed and sloppy pit stops, missed signals on the track. Finally, their problems came to a head, after a series of poor finishes, in a spring 2009 race. ''We were pitiful, and all of us were embarrassed,'' Hendrick says. Hendrick had been concerned with ''having to manage Dale Earnhardt Jr., the superstar,'' but in fact it was performance that was the issue. So Hendrick replaced Eury with McGrew, an easygoing, cerebral, boyish-looking man of 42. Eury went over to JR Motorsports, which Earnhardt owns in partnership with Hendrick. (Eury is now Danica Patrick's crew chief there.)
''Everyone can't do what Jimmie does,'' Hendrick says. ''You tell Dale too much and he gets outta whack.'' But as Johnson himself puts it, ''You can't have a day in your car when you don't talk about your car because you don't feel social that day.''
Kelley says: ''With Dale, it's always about relationships. He needs rapport.'' She says that stems from his childhood need to have a relationship with his father. ''We didn't see Dad much. There was no quality time with him, no relationship.''
Nascar, like country music, likes to refer to itself as family, and in truth, it has always been dominated by families. The Frances, Bill Sr., Bill Jr. and now Brian; the Pettys; the Earnhardts; the Allisons; the Waltrips; the Hendricks. Earnhardt Sr. had three families. He left his first two without much consideration. He let his first wife's new husband adopt his son Kerry so he wouldn't have to pay child support. His second wife struggled financially with Dale and Kelley until their house burned down and he reluctantly took in his two children when they were 10 and 12, respectively. There was tension from the very beginning between Earnhardt Jr. and his father's third wife, Teresa. On top of that, Earnhardt Sr. was a strict, penurious and distant father. His son and Kelley had a 13-inch black-and-white TV for 15 years.
''My daddy never let us have friends over,'' Earnhardt told me, '''cause he didn't want them tearing up his new possessions. He never really did anything with me. He never told me things. We were raised by six or seven nannies. I always thought he felt I wasn't much like him.'' Kelley says that as a child, her brother was small, timid and sensitive. Kids bullied him. She tried to protect him. ''We were as close as you could be,'' Earnhardt said. ''We still are.'' He went on to say, ''I feel like a child star protected by all these stage moms.''
Finally, Teresa persuaded her husband to ship Dale to a military academy when he was 12. Of his time there, Earnhardt said: ''It wasn't that challenging. You had to have nurse's corners on your beds. And your toothbrush had to be one finger from the sink bowl.'' He lined up a pen on his knee to show me. His hands had a slight quiver, as if he were nervous talking to me. ''The bristles had to be up.''
Kelley says it wasn't all Teresa's fault. ''We were someone else's kids. She was 24 and I was 12. She didn't know how to get in our minds.'' After his father's death, Earnhardt tried hard to keep his family members close. He worked with a number of them at D.E.I., and he has 11 family members, including Kelley, their mother, their stepfather and assorted uncles and cousins, working at JR Motorsports today. ''I don't need anyone to watch my back now,'' Earnhardt says. Kelley says, ''Dad did not embrace family members working for him.'' Kelley runs and is a co-owner of JR Motorsports, which signed up Danica Patrick this year. ''I did it so Kelley could showcase her talents, you know, go out there and flex her muscles in front of people,'' Earnhardt says. (One Nascar writer noted sarcastically that Earnhardt's decision to hire Patrick, winner of one Indy race in 93 starts, was just what Nascar needed: another celebrity driver who hasn't won anything in years.)
Unlike his father, Earnhardt has never been married. ''For years I didn't put myself in the best position to meet the right kind of women,'' he says. ''I don't want to get married and divorced like my father.'' So he lives alone, cooks his own meals. It doesn't bother him, he says. ''I got a girlfriend. She stays with me sometimes. She's a Mooresville girl.''
Earnhardt is reclusive because beyond his own small world in Mooresville (what his publicist calls his playground), his life isn't his own. It wasn't his own when he was under the shadow of his father, and now he has found himself held hostage again, this time by Nascar. He's too valuable for Nascar to be left on his own. So he's constantly trailed and driven and steered this way and that by his handlers.
As in all big sports, fans are the lifeblood of Nascar. Earnhardt Sr. told his son he had to ''do something to appeal to people.'' But Earnhardt Jr. doesn't have a persona like the Man in Black. ''My fans see what my life is,'' he says. ''It's not much different from the guy down the street. They identify with me. I try to be myself.'' I ask him what that self is. He shakes his head and smiles. ''I'm still trying to complete that journey.''
Rick Hendrick says the fans who once flocked to Earnhardt because he was Earnhardt Sr.'s son ''have faded away. Now he has his own fans, people who love him 'cause he's blue collar.'' As a result of his vast fan base, Earnhardt receives what some might call a disproportionate amount of fame and money. Jeff Gordon, not a favorite of fans, has said that ''if you look at his stats versus his popularity -- I don't want to be harsh -- but I think he's almost embarrassed that he hasn't earned it.'' (''Dale's not alone in having a father in this sport pave the way for him,'' McGrew counters. ''There's lots of sons and brothers in Nascar lucky enough to be born into a racing family.'')
Earnhardt admits he liked being famous at first. ''It was fun,'' he says. ''When you get notoriety, you're scared of it, then you learn how to make it work for you. But you get worried you're gonna get swept up in it, and it might get turned off. You've got to realize fame doesn't make life that much more exceptional.'' What it has made him, he says, is ''more reclusive.''
At one point when we were talking, his cellphone rang, and he said to me: ''It's my sister. Do you mind if I take it?''
I laughed. ''You don't have to ask me,'' I said. But he did have to ask me. I'm an older guy, the kind he is used to treating with respect. He once told me that the most important thing to him is to please people.
After his call, he said: ''It's something I gotta do with Kelley. Do you mind?'' I said not at all. ''Come to Hendrick Motorsports next week,'' he went on, ''and we can talk some more.''
''What about after you see your sister? Maybe we can have a late lunch?''
''Sure,'' he said. Then he caught his publicist out of the corner of his eye. She was shaking her head no. He lowered his head and looked at the floor. ''Aw, maybe it'd be better next week.''
I drove to Concord, N.C., for the Hendrick Motorsports media day in January. The place looked like a modern college campus with its spotless white concrete-and-glass buildings perched on small hills.
At noon, I had lunch with about 200 members of the news media in one of the vast buildings. A man in a blue oxford shirt and khaki pants took the stage -- Hendrick Motorsports's chaplain. He thanked us for coming to meet the drivers and ''eat free food.'' Then he asked us to join him in a prayer for Pepsi, the team's sponsor. The media prayed.
After lunch, the four drivers came onstage and sat on folding chairs. They wore dark slacks and white dress shirts with the Hendrick Motorsports logo and their names on the front. Johnson and Gordon looked like John Edwards clones. Martin was so thin and tiny, his legs dangling from his chair a foot from the floor, that he resembled Benjamin Button at birth. Earnhardt evoked Ulysses S. Grant with his reddish beard and feline, inscrutable blue eyes. Later, when a moderator addressed a question to him, he put his head down and mumbled an answer.
Before I left Hendrick Motorsports, I asked him if he was satisfied with what he has done in Nascar. ''I accomplished more than I ever thought I would,'' he said. ''At one point I didn't think I had what it took. Racing's not like other sports. A kid can go in the backyard with his dad and throw a ball, and you see he can do it on the field too. But in racing, you don't know until you do it.''
Then he said: ''I want to make Rick proud he hired me. I don't want to end this relationship with neither of us getting anything out of it.'' I asked him whether Hendrick might fire him if he wasn't successful this year. ''I got fired before,'' he said. ''That's part of life. I'd just like to win three races this year for Rick.'' Then, forcefully, he added, ''I gotta be relevant.''
What has been the hardest thing for him to deal with in his career?
He stared at his hands and said: ''All my life I've been the smaller measure of the man. When my Dad died, I wanted to honor him. But I wanted to distance myself from him too. I wanted to get out from under being Dale Earnhardt's son.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Even when he isn't winning, Dale Earnhardt Jr. remains the most popular driver in Nascar. (MM22-23)
IT'S THE DRIVER, NOT THE CAR: Earnhardt and his pit crew at Chicagoland Speedway in July. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK PETERSON/REDUX, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM25)
 MEASURING UP: Dale Jr., with his famous and distant father, in 1985. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) (MM26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NASCAR RACING (90%); AUTO RACING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (71%); RANKINGS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



182 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Shira Rosenhaft, Thomas Conoscenti

 BODY:
Shira Abbie Rosenhaft and Thomas Salvatore Conoscenti were married Saturday in Brooklyn Bridge Park. The Rev. Jesse D. Hendrich, a minister of the Church of Spiritual Humanism, officiated. 
The bride, 30, is keeping her name. She plans community events and coordinates media sponsorships on behalf of WNYC and WQXR, public radio stations in New York. She graduated from Hampshire College, and received a master's in performing arts administration from New York University.
She is the daughter of Richard N. Rosenhaft of Portland, Ore., and the late Allida H. Grossman. Her father retired as an art teacher at Glencoe High School in Hillsboro, Ore. The bride is the stepdaughter of Dr. Patricia Mizutani, a radiologist and a partner at Vancouver Radiologists in Vancouver, Wash.
The bridegroom, 29, works in Brooklyn as the director of real estate and research for the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, a nonprofit local development corporation that coordinates planning and development activities in Downtown Brooklyn. He graduated from Vassar College and received a master's in city and regional planning from the University of California, Berkeley.
He is the son of Marilyn R. Conoscenti and Thomas Conoscenti of Nesconset, N.Y. His mother works in Ronkonkoma, N.Y., as a contracts examiner for the Suffolk County Department of Social Services. His father owns an economic consulting firm in Nesconset that bears his name.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CALENDARS (87%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC RADIO (71%); RADIOLOGY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



183 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Going for Less Than the Best

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
''I did not need a balcony,'' said Foram Matalia, a renter at the new 225 Grand building in Jersey City. She also decided in advance that she could live without a sparkling view of the New York City skyline. But she knew she wanted a one-bedroom apartment in a classy new structure for herself and her husband
Ms. Matalia said she looked at units -- in the same building, and elsewhere -- that were ''way expensive, like $2,200 a month.'' But by remaining clear-eyed about what she could forgo, she said, and by bargaining for all she could get, she was able to rent a fifth-floor apartment for a little over $1,600 a month. 
''The apartment doesn't face the city,'' she said, ''but we can see the Statue of Liberty out the living room window.''
Call it the ''less-than-fully-loaded'' lifestyle, which seems to be spiking in popularity in this state where ominous rumblings from Trenton indicate the economy may be stuck in low gear for quite a while longer. People want to live in buildings with a good location and lots of amenities, but sometimes the only way to do it is to buy or rent the cheapest apartment in the building.
Michael Harris, who bought an 817-square-foot condominium with ''less-than-the-best'' views, as he said, at Canco Lofts in Jersey City a few months ago, feels entirely at home with the compromise he made.
''I see part of another building out the window, and the mountains of western New Jersey, instead of New York,'' Mr. Harris said. ''After I decided I wanted to live here, because of the amenities and the location, I looked at half a dozen units in my price range. Some were smaller than this one, and some had more light. But I decided I could happily trade off for the space.''
Jacqueline Urgo, the president of the Marketing Directors in Manhattan, which is handling leasing or sales for about a dozen newer ''luxury'' buildings in northern New Jersey, said increasing numbers of people are finding brand-new units affordable with the price breaks and other enticements being offered. (Mr. Harris said his closing costs were paid by the Canco developer.)
''But still, just getting in the building might be a stretch for someone's budget,'' Ms. Urgo said. ''If they are stretching to be in a luxury building with lounge, pool, fitness center, etc., then they know they need to take the least expensive bite of the apple.''
Some people take advantage of their own offbeat hours or predilections to get lower price points, she noted. (''Vampire'' buyers, as brokers sometimes refer to people who work at night, do not reap the same benefits from huge windows and exceptional views, and may leap at inside units with smaller price tags, Ms. Urgo and other marketers say.)
Others just focus on the idea of getting in on the ground floor -- yes, sometimes literally -- at a new building they think will be 'hot,' Ms. Urgo said. ''They think, maybe we can upgrade later within the building,'' she added.
Jodi Stasse, the president of Stasse and Company, which is marketing Canco as well as the Trump Plaza Residences condominium tower in Jersey City, said: ''Everybody who walks in the door either place wants to live in the best unit. It's the first thing they want to see, even if they know beforehand they can't afford it.''
People like to get a sense of all the possibilities, she said. ''If they fall in love with the Canco amenities, the look, the feel of the neighborhood inside the building,'' which has a full-time concierge, a 24-hour gym, a free shuttle to the nearby PATH station, and extra-tall ceilings in every unit (starting at 14 feet), Ms. Stasse said they often become realistic about not having a penthouse, or as much space as they desire.
At Canco, a converted factory complex (it was the American Can Company headquarters), most apartments are quite large, but some studios and one-bedrooms have only around 600 square feet. All the windows are supersized -- 11 feet tall or more -- but some units have only two windows and partially obstructed views.
Irfan Ozaltine, who with his wife recently bought a 900-square-foot studio there, said his unit currently looks out over a parking lot. ''But we are hoping for the future,'' Mr. Ozaltine said, ''because Canco has a plan to put a park there.''
Will Herbert, a stock trader, stayed put for six years at the Vanguard building of the Shipyard complex in Hoboken because he savored the amenities -- especially the ''30-second'' walk to the ferry station, he says -- and because he had received a good deal on an apartment facing the street that offered little privacy unless the blinds were closed.
Mr. Herbert said he discovered recently that he is still willing to compromise to live at the Shipyard, though differently. A couple of months ago, he moved to a newly completed rental building there, the Berkshire.
''My new apartment now is actually slightly smaller,'' Mr. Herbert said, ''and it costs $250 a month more. But it's on a corner, with a lot more light. After all those years, that was my new priority.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AT HOME: Michael Harris, above, is happy with his condo at Canco Lofts even though the views are less than perfect. Foram Matalia, left, gets a glimpse of the Statue of Liberty from her fifth-floor rental at 225 Grand. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); BUDGETS (66%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



184 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Far From the Poor, Real Estate Woes Nip at Lake Forest

BYLINE: By TOM HUNDLEY

 BODY:
With apologies to the fictional town of Lake Wobegon, the real-life Chicago suburb of Lake Forest is a place where it sometimes seems that all the women drive S.U.V.'s, all the men are C.E.O.'s and all the children have above-average S.A.T.'s.
The per-capita income for Lake Forest residents is $77,000. There is a road named Rockefeller. And if you are fortunate enough to live within this leafy redoubt of old wealth and new, the rest of the world and its troubles can seem very far removed.
But the national tidal wave of foreclosures that has swamped large parts of the metropolitan area's housing market, mainly in low-income neighborhoods, is now starting to lap at the unspoiled shores of this community on Lake Michigan. 
''In the first half of 2010, the largest increases in new foreclosures occurred in the region's middle- and higher-income communities,'' according to a report this month by the Woodstock Institute, which tracks housing trends in the region.
DuPage County was hardest hit in the Chicago metropolitan area, with a 74.8 percent increase in new filings in the first six months of 2010; Lake County, home to Lake Forest, was second, with a 64.9 percent jump. But in Lake Forest, the increase in the number of foreclosures was a jarring 78.9 percent.
An examination of real estate transactions in Lake Forest through the end of July found that of the 127 houses sold this year, 18 of them, or 14 percent, were either in foreclosure or were transferred on so-called short sales -- that is, when the selling price falls short of the amount owed on the mortgage.
What is happening in Lake Forest is part of a larger trend, said Geoff Smith, the vice president of Woodstock Institute.
''The numbers are tapering off in the low- to moderate-income communities because these foreclosures were mainly driven by subprime loans, which for the most part have been cycled through the system,'' Mr. Smith said.
Now the crisis is scything through the region's middle- and high-income communities, where most of the foreclosures are tied to prime loans made in the last two to three years, he said.
If the subprime debacle was triggered mainly by lenders offering gimmicky mortgages to poor people who could not afford them, this new phase of the crisis is the result of more mundane economic factors: a lingering recession, high unemployment and a weak housing market.
The majority of the foreclosures still involve single-family homes, but condominiums are beginning to make up a larger share of the filings. In north and northwest Cook County, condominiums now represent 30 percent and 44 percent, respectively, of the new foreclosures -- a jump of 76 percent over last year, according to the Woodstock Institute's data.
In one northwest Cook County community -- unidentified in the report -- there were 98 foreclosure filings from a single development.
The numbers in Lake Forest are comparatively small -- 34 foreclosures this year compared with 11,103 in Chicago, according to the institute's tally -- but the impact has been especially nerve-racking.
Two years ago, the words ''foreclosure'' and ''short sale'' did not exist in the local real estate lexicon, said Dick Christoph Jr., a Realtor with Coldwell Banker in Lake Forest.
Available records indicate that the average asking price for foreclosed houses in Lake Forest in the first six months of this year was $860,000. There were more foreclosed properties valued at more than $1 million than there were under $500,000.
How did this come to pass in Lake Forest, where people are not only wealthy, but also like to think of themselves as wise in the ways of money?
The culprits, real estate experts say, are interest-only and no-down-payment loans, which were popular with high earners who saw the housing bubble as a way to enhance their wealth.
From the mid-1990s until the bubble burst two years ago, it was virtually impossible to lose money in real estate in Lake Forest.
''You'd ask someone how they were doing, and they'd say, 'Oh, I made $100,000, $200,000 this year, but my house went up $200,000,' '' Mr. Christoph said. ''So they started spending like they were earning $400,000 a year. In reality, they were living above their means.''
When housing prices tumbled, these homeowners found themselves under water: the market value of their property was less than the mortgage and any other outstanding loans. And the high end of the market seems to have been hit hardest of all.
''We've seen a remarkable drop in large-home prices,'' said David Moore, a businessman who serves on the Lake Forest City Council. ''Homes on the water that used to go for $10 million or $11 million -- it's being whispered that you can get them now for $4 million or $5 million.''
Mr. Moore said there was a stir last week when the Noble Judah house, considered by some city residents to be the finest property in town, was put on the market as a short sale for $5.99 million. A few years ago, the 85-year-old manor would have commanded three times as much, he said.
No statistics are available, but experts say a significant number of high-end foreclosures and short sales seem to be ''strategic walk-aways'' or what some have dubbed ''ruthless defaults.''
''It does appear that some of these owners may be doing it for strategic reasons, as a way to handle their assets,'' said Stuart M. Widman, a Chicago lawyer and member of the Lake Forest City Council. ''It's not the way I would handle things.''
But some real estate agents, including Mr. Christoph, are advising underwater sellers to consider a walk-away. ''The banks will hate me for saying this,'' Mr. Christoph said, ''but if you can't ride it out and you're going to be caught in a short sale, quite frankly it makes sense to stop paying the mortgage.''
''A lot of people just got caught up in this thing,'' he added. ''They're not bad people; it's not a deadbeat scenario. You have to protect yourself and move on.''
While banks might not be happy with Mr. Christoph's advice, they do seem to take a different approach to these high-end defaults, or as F. Scott Fitzgerald -- whose Daisy Buchanan character was inspired by a Lake Forest debutante -- observed, the very rich ''are different from you and me.''
Defaulters in wealthy communities are not likely to be faced with eviction by the sheriff. Banks will generally allow these owners to stay in the house as long as they continue to maintain it. Derelict houses with overgrown lawns, the fallout of the foreclosure crisis in many down-and-out urban neighborhoods, are a rarity in Lake Forest.
But even as they work to keep up appearances, residents of Lake Forest and other upscale suburbs will probably be under increasing financial pressure for as long as the recession continues.
''I'd like to tell you we are bottoming out and that things will start to improve,'' Mr. Christoph said, ''but I think we are going to see a lot more of these larger-priced homes go into foreclosure before we're through with this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This house at 5 East Laurel Avenue is a short sale at $3.6 million, said Dick Christoph Jr., a Lake Forest real estate agent.
 Lake Forest, whose downtown exudes prosperity, is seeing more foreclosures in its neighborhoods because many owners were living beyond their means, said Mr. Christoph of Coldwell Banker. The classic Noble Judah house, right, is listed as a short sale. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BONNIE TRAFELET/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); TRENDS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (88%); LAKES (78%); CITIES (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



185 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: In Search of a New Playbook

 BODY:
In less than 90 days, millions of irritable voters will go to the polls to choose a new House and much of the Senate. If Democrats hope to retain control of both chambers in a year of deep dissatisfaction with incumbents, they need a sharper and more inspirational playbook than the one they are using.
Political forecasters have warned for months that the widespread anti-Democratic sentiment in the nation could well coalesce into a Republican wave that approaches that party's gains in 1994. President Obama's independents have deserted him, the business and Tea Party wings of the Republican Party are alight with fervor and cash, and even season-ticket Democrats are searching for their old enthusiasm. 
In part, that is because the significant accomplishments of the last two years -- health care reform, the stimulus package, the resuscitation of the auto industry, financial reform -- were savagely attacked by the right and aggressively misrepresented as the hoof beats of totalitarianism. Most of those efforts were actually highly diluted to draw centrist support, but they did not really get much of it, and the compromises meant that the bills were defended only halfheartedly by Democrats who should have stood up more firmly to the rage.
Put most broadly, the Democrats have been failing to delineate the differences between themselves and Republicans, to remind voters what Republicans would do if returned to power and how little their policies have changed from those during the two terms of President George W. Bush.
Recently, this has started to change. President Obama has become uncharacteristically combative, delivering a series of ardent speeches that other Democrats would do well to imitate. In remarks at a Democratic fund-raiser in Atlanta last Monday, he pointed out that Bush-era Republicans had cut taxes for millionaires, cut rules for special interests, and cut loose working people to fend for themselves.
Since then, he said: ''It's not like they've engaged in some heavy reflection. They have not come up with a single solitary new idea to address the challenges of the American people. They don't have a single idea that's different from George Bush's ideas -- not one. Instead, they're betting on amnesia.''
Democrats could start to banish that haze of memory by reminding voters what is actually in those giant packages of legislation: Protections for patients against insurance companies. Rules keeping adult children on health policies, and requiring coverage for pre-existing conditions. A new consumer financial protection bureau to fight lending abuses. The preservation or creation of nearly three million jobs, averting Depression-level unemployment. The local benefits of stimulus projects.
Republicans fought against each of those measures, and seem to be spoiling to hold hostage middle-class tax cuts in order to preserve tax cuts for the rich. Democrats have been far too timid in taking on those issues, to the point that they now will have to do more than simply remind voters of Republican opposition.
For most voters, the only real issue is high unemployment, and it is here that Democrats seem to have set aside bold thinking and fallen into the Republican trap of placing deficit fears ahead of job revival. Rather than spend time during the campaign stoking anxiety over Social Security, Democrats should aggressively counter the myth that the deficit is causing unemployment, and advocate using government in ways that might re- inspire voters.
A few suggestions: Using the revenue from reinstating taxes on the rich to put people back to work, rebuilding and repairing the country. Providing robust support for state and local governments, many of which have cut past the bone. Repairing the unemployment system so that it is a real safety net and not a political tool.
As the economy recovers, there will be money available for sane and careful deficit reduction, territory the Democrats know far better than their opponents. A House or Senate controlled by Republicans, leading to longer stalemates and years of political posturing, is not the way to get there. Instead of shrinking from their accomplishments, Democrats should use their remaining time to build on them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); INSURANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



186 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: For Politicians, a Marriage of Inconvenience

BYLINE: By LOU CANNON. 
Lou Cannon, a biographer of , Ronald Reagan, is an editorial adviser and columnist for the State Net Capitol Journal.

 BODY:
Summerland, Calif.
WHEN a federal judge ruled last week that a California ballot measure banning same-sex marriage violated the Constitution, he complicated the political strategy of Meg Whitman, the personable Republican billionaire who wants to be our next governor. Yet while most close observers of California politics think the decision is either irrelevant to the race or puts Ms. Whitman in a tough corner, there's also a chance it could play out in a way that gives her an edge on her opponent, Attorney General (and former governor) Jerry Brown.
After disposing of a more conservative rival in the Republican primary, Ms. Whitman has been trying to court independent voters, especially women, in a state where Democrats vastly outnumber Republicans. She has favored a woman's right to abortion, moderated the anti-immigration views she expressed in the primary race and supported the state's existing laws providing civil unions and other protections for gays and lesbians. 
On Wednesday, when Judge Vaughn Walker struck down the state's same-sex marriage ban on the grounds that it violated the 14th Amendment, Ms. Whitman tried to avoid the issue by saying it was the first step in a long legal process. Soon enough, however, with social conservatives outraged by the ruling, Ms. Whitman's campaign put out a statement quoting her as saying that marriage should be ''between a man and a woman.''
That was the politically safe position that every major presidential candidate, including Barack Obama, took in 2008. Same-sex marriage, a wedge issue for social conservatives, has come out the loser in all 31 states where it's been tested on the ballot.
But in California, the division on the issue is far narrower than elsewhere, and the long-term trend favors same-sex marriage. Proposition 8, the ban invalidated by Judge Walker's ruling, passed in 2008 with 52 percent of the vote. Two recent surveys, one by the venerable Field Poll and another by the Public Policy Institute of California, have found a shift since then, with slight majorities favoring same-sex marriage.
Most California statewide officeholders cheered Walker's ruling, led by Jerry Brown, a vocal supporter of gay rights. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, said the ruling enhanced California's ''growing reputation of treating all people and their relationships with equal respect and dignity.''
The state's two Democratic senators, Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein, lauded the judge as well. Ms. Boxer is seeking re-election; her Republican challenger, Carly Fiorina, had supported the same-sex marriage ban, saying it was the will of the voters. But even Ms. Fiorina has been playing down the issue.
Stuart K. Spencer, a retired Republican political consultant who in 1967 helped engineer Ronald Reagan's winning campaign for California governor, said that most statewide candidates will avoid talking about same-sex marriage because the electorate is so closely divided.
On the other hand, Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political scientist at the University of Southern California, tells me that overturning the ban could provide a mild boost for Democrats ''if it fires up the base and shakes Democrats out of their lethargy.'' And Allan Hoffenblum, a nonpartisan political analyst, believes that same-sex marriage is a digression for candidates in a state where the jobless rate is above 12 percent and voters are disgusted with the repeated failure of the Legislature and the governor to balance the budget.
Bill Carrick, a Democratic consultant not affiliated with either the Brown or Boxer campaigns, however, believes that Judge Walker's ruling is ''a short-term plus for Jerry Brown and another long-term nail in the demographic coffin of the Republican Party.''
Well, if history is any guide, it is more likely that same-sex marriage may lose its potency as a political issue. In 1994, after an emotional anti-immigrant campaign during another economic downturn, California voters approved Proposition 187, which would have denied most health and educational benefits to illegal immigrants. When the law was challenged in the courts, the issue largely disappeared from the political radar screen. (Most of it was thrown out as unconstitutional in the late 1990s.)
Similarly, in 1996, California voters approved Proposition 209, which did away with most state and local government affirmative action programs. This issue also declined in political importance as the initiative took a long detour through the courts before finally being upheld as constitutional this summer.
Given this history, how could the issue actually help Ms. Whitman? While an abstract legal ruling, subject to appeal, may not bring conservatives out in droves for a candidate they don't see as a true believer, a rush of same-sex marriages -- and news media images of gays and lesbians at these ceremonies -- could bring a backlash at the polls in November.
This cannot happen if the ruling remains under a stay, first imposed by Judge Walker on Wednesday. That will depend on more rulings likely involving the judge, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and perhaps the Supreme Court.
This raises another question: even if the issue stays on the front burner, can Ms. Whitman take advantage of it? Signs are not promising. Her recent efforts to woo centrist voters and keep conservatives on board have not gone well. Last week she was booed and picketed when she appeared before a Latino group to discuss her immigration views. She was chastised by two popular conservative Southern California radio talk show hosts for refusing to back the repeal of a law that calls for reducing California's greenhouse gas emissions.
In any case, it's safe to say that the legal journey on same-sex marriage is just beginning, and few are willing to wager over which way it will turn out. The question for now, though, is whether same-sex marriage will be an effective wedge issue come November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); JUDGES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BALLOTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COHABITATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); TRENDS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); ABORTION (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (55%); IMMIGRATION (53%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); JERRY BROWN (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



187 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; WORKING OUT WITH TONY ROBBINS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: No Such Thing as a Setback

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
TONY ROBBINS -- self-help guru, business mogul and, most recently, aspiring television star -- needed some encouragement. The Great Motivator was on a chest press anchored with a 460-pound weight, which he had to slowly lift. A metronome counted the beats: One ... two ... three. Release.
There to help was Fredrick Hahn, the owner of Serious Strength Personal Training Studios in Manhattan, where Mr. Robbins, 50, works out when he's in town. Mr. Hahn pointed to a plaque on the wall and said: ''Remember: Breathe freely, go slowly, stay focused.'' 
The words could have come from Mr. Robbins. Instead, he exhaled loudly. ''Wow, that was good,'' he said, sipping water from a paper cup. He moved to another machine and Mr. Hahn placed a fan by Mr. Robbins's feet. ''I don't want you to sweat, because when you sweat you get overheated and you're not as effective,'' Mr. Hahn said.
Mr. Robbins nodded. He understood ''effective.'' That is, after all, what he teaches in his books, seminars, DVDs and -- at least until recently -- a TV show, ''Breakthrough With Tony Robbins.'' They are all about maximizing your potential. Or, to quote the title of his 1992 best-seller, how to ''Awaken the Giant Within.''
He himself does not seem to have any trouble awakening the giant within, or without. Everything about him is supersized: his charm; his booming voice; his 6-foot-7, 275-pound frame.
Soon, Mr. Robbins completed his routine: 300 pounds on the seated leg curl; 460 pounds on the chest press; 600 pounds on the leg press. Seven machines in 25 minutes. For some, it's an extreme routine, but not for Tony Robbins.
''Life isn't balance,'' he said. ''Balance is a lie. Whatever I do, I do a million percent.'' (Examples: In the last two months, he has lectured in California, Bali, India, China, Scotland and Italy; he and his wife, Sage, own homes in Vancouver; Fiji; Sun Valley, Idaho; and Desert Palms, Calif.)
Mr. Robbins changed into a navy shirt and jeans and headed toward Central Park for a late-afternoon stroll. It was not your average walk in the park. Indeed, he managed only a few feet before passers-by began calling out.
''Hey, Tony!''
''I love your book!''
''Hey, thanks,'' Mr. Robbins said, hand extended, charisma in hyperdrive. ''What's your name? Earl? Good to meet you!''
He asked an exultant young woman named Carol how she knew his work. She said she first encountered him years ago, when she was unemployed. ''You had tapes back then,'' she said. ''I kept implementing everything you said throughout my life. Pretty soon I thought, is that my idea or did I steal it from him?''
Mr. Robbins laughed. ''Trust me, I probably stole it from somebody somewhere, too,'' he said, wrapping his arms around her. ''Oh! I'm doing a new show called 'Breakthrough With Tony Robbins' on Tuesday night.''
''Are you kidding me?'' Carol said. ''I've got it programmed into my phone.''
Carol, along with many other fans, will no doubt be disappointed to learn that the show -- which challenged participants to ''rewrite their story'' -- was pulled after two episodes, one of which featured a quadriplegic who parachuted out of a helicopter. The reason: poor ratings.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Robbins is viewing the setback, which came late last week after this interview was conducted, as a chance for his own growth. As he explained by e-mail from his home in Fiji, where he owns the Namale Resort and Spa: ''My work is about helping people transform their own lives. The feedback from both the audience and television critics shows we achieved that, and I'm grateful for the reach and experience that the specials created.''
Earlier, back in the park, a scalper with tickets to the Flaming Lips approached. ''I've seen you on TV, man!'' he said. Mr. Robbins shook his hand and posed for a picture.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GROWING: Tony Robbins, the self-help author, before his show was canceled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%)

PERSON: ANTHONY ROBBINS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); IDAHO, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%); SCOTLAND (72%); INDIA (52%); CHINA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



188 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
INVITED TO IRAN, EXPATRIATES RECEIVE A CHILLY RECEPTION
The Iranian government paid last week for several hundred ''highly placed'' Iranians living abroad to come back for a three-day, all-expenses-paid trip as part of a prominent effort to alter the country's image as a pariah. The event did not exactly go as planned. PAGE 6
VIOLENT DAY ACROSS IRAQ
A car bomb detonated a fuel tank in Iraq's second-largest city, Basra, spreading fire through a crowded market, Interior Ministry officials said, in the worst attack on a violent day that marked five months since Iraqis voted for a new government that has yet to be created. PAGE 8 
MRS. OBAMA'S TRIP FAULTED
Michelle Obama hoped to enjoy a quiet summer break in southern Spain with her younger daughter and a few friends. But critics have called the trip tone-deaf, coming in the same week the United States reported the loss of another 131,000 jobs. PAGE 10
NEW U.S. OVERTURES TO IRAN
Arguing that global sanctions have brought more economic pain than Iran's leaders anticipated, the United States government is making a renewed appeal to Iranian leaders to reopen negotiations on their nation's nuclear program. PAGE 10
National
TRAFFIC CAMERAS BECOME WALLET AND CAMPAIGN ISSUE
As cash-challenged localities increasingly rely on traffic cameras to levy fines on drivers, the cameras have become a hot issue on the campaign trail and have even drawn federal scrutiny in a trend reflecting prevalent populist outrage. PAGE 16
REPAIRS TO THE SPACE STATION
Unexpected ammonia leaks and a jammed quick-disconnect fitting derailed a marathon eight-hour spacewalk to replace a coolant system pump aboard the International Space Station. PAGE 16
A CALL FOR RECONCILIATION
The Rev. Bernice King, daughter of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., implored the Southern Christian Leadership Conference to come together after infighting that has pushed the civil rights organization to the brink of extinction. PAGE 16
New York
CRACKING THE LOCKS ON RELIEF FROM THE HEAT
Few neighborhood traditions are as cherished as opening a fire hydrant on a hot summer day. Nearly all of the city's 109,000 hydrants have, at some point, cooled overheated residents. Summer Rituals by Manny Fernandez. PAGE 20
Sports
AN ANNOUNCER RETURNS TO PLAY-BY-PLAY
Dick Enberg has been the voice of Wimbledons, Final Fours, Rose Bowls and Super Bowls during a career that has earned him 14 Emmy Awards. But at 75, Enberg can be found at a most unlikely station: doing play-by-play on San Diego Padres telecasts. PAGE 1
SABATHIA GUIDES YANKEES
C. C. Sabathia pitched like an ace, working eight sturdy innings in a 5-2 victory against the Boston Red Sox to increase the Yankees' lead over Tampa Bay in the American League East to one and a half games. PAGE 1
THOMAS'S GARDEN RETURN
If James L. Dolan, the owner of the Knicks, wanted to infuriate his critics and defy the N.B.A., his decision to name Isiah Thomas -- who fans thought was gone for good in April 2008 -- a consultant to the team certainly succeeded. Sports of The Times by William C. Rhoden. PAGE 8
Obituaries
LEE LOCKWOOD, 78
An American photojournalist, he captured rare glimpses of life in Communist countries, documenting the treatment of an American prisoner of war in North Vietnam and persuading Fidel Castro to sit for a highly personal interview. PAGE 18
Sunday Business
A TREE FALLS
And a Business Blooms
Seth Meyer and John Wells harvest Seattle's urban trees doomed by development, disease or storm damage, and turn them into custom furniture. Their business, started four years ago, bears all the markers that would seem to point toward collapse and extinction in a recessionary economy. Yet the company, Meyer Wells, has thrived. PAGE 1
Arts & Leisure
FROM NIPS AND TUCKS
To a Big Juicy Movie
Ryan Murphy, the creator of ''Nip/Tuck'' and ''Glee,'' and who directed Julia Roberts in the film ''Eat Pray Love,'' has become one of the most sought-after talents in Hollywood. Not bad for a guy who grew up poor in Indianapolis, where he was taunted for being gay and spent the first decade of his professional life toiling as a print journalist. PAGE 1
ARABIAN NIGHT
History is all around here, on a road winding south along the Red Sea coast from the birthplace of Christianity to the birthplace of Islam. But for one night Jordanians, Lebanese, Iraqis, Saudis and Palestinians were interested only in dancing from dusk until dawn at Distant Heat, an electronic dance music show that featured European D.J.'s. PAGE 1
Magazine
MY LIFE IN THERAPY
What 40 years of talking to analysts has -- and hasn't -- taught a writer. PAGE 28
THE COPYRIGHT ENFORCERS
In an age of illegal downloads, iPod shuffles and karaoke machines, how can a 30-year-old music-rights representative persuade every small-town bar, beauty parlor and diner to pay for music? PAGE 38
In the Name of the Father 22
Book Review
AS DARKNESS FALLS
The centenarian Hans Keilson worked for the Dutch resistance and wrote masterly midcentury novels set in Nazi-occupied Europe. Reviewed by Francine Prose. PAGE 1
A VIEW OF THE BRIDGE
It's hard to believe that only 73 years ago, the Golden Gate Bridge did not exist. Yet today, the structure rises like ''a natural, even an inevitable, entity,'' Kevin Starr writes in ''Golden Gate: The Life and Times of America's Greatest Bridge.'' PAGE 7
Sunday Styles
ON CAMPUS
In the Mideast
In what educators are calling the fastest growing study-abroad program, American college students are increasingly choosing to spend their junior year in Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates, places that most Americans know only through news reports. Many choose the Middle East, hoping to experience the Arab world beyond America's borders and viewpoints. PAGE 1
WEDDING MENU CONTROVERSY
Weddings are all about compromise. City or country? My religion or yours? For Chelsea Clinton, a vegetarian, it was the decision to serve meat to the guests at her July 31 wedding. For some couples, that is a concession too far. PAGE 2
Automobiles
ART TO GO
The Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance is often called the world's premier automotive beauty pageant. It is the centerpiece several vintage car events in the week ahead in California. SPORTSSUNDAY, PAGE 10
Week in Review
EPIC CONFUSION:
The Superathlete's Tale
The notion of looking up to the sports hero was always dubious. Now? Forget it. The new definition of a sports hero is someone whom we don't yet have enough information on. The travails of athletes like Alex Rodriguez, Lance Armstrong, Tiger Woods and LeBron James illustrate a piece of ancient wisdom: Hubris and temptation have laid low many a would-be hero. PAGE 1
AN ENDURING JOBLESSNESS
Americans have almost always taken growth for granted. Recessions kick in, financial crises erupt, yet these events have been thought of as a temporary departure. But as expectations for the recovery diminish daily and joblessness shows no sign of easing, a different view is taking hold. PAGE 1
Travel
NORMANDY'S QUIET GLAMOUR
The seaside towns of the Cote Fleurie in France have everything Cannes has, like expansive beaches, film festivals and lively nightclubs. But fanfare is not their style. PAGE 1
Editorial
IN SEARCH OF A NEW PLAYBOOK
If Democrats hope to retain control of both chambers in a year of deep dissatisfaction with incumbents, they need a sharper strategy. Week in Review, Page 7
GO SLOW ON THE MORATORIUM
The moratorium on deep-water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico must remain in place, at least for now. Week in Review, Page 7
REVISION: THE LAVELLE CASE
Because of a cover-up in the Nixon White House, editorials in this newspaper misstated the role of an Air Force general in a series of bombing raids on North Vietnam. Week in Review, Page 7
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The documentary ''Precious Life'' is instructive for those who want to criticize Israel. Week in Review, Page 8
MAUREEN DOWD
Where's the first lady when the president needs her? Going her own way. Week in Review, Page 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACECRAFT (89%); BASEBALL (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); TRENDS (72%); SPACE STATIONS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); TENNIS (66%); SPORTS (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (68%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



189 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: I'm American. And You?

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
Once, in what seems like another eon of Republican politics, George W. Bush dreamed of building a multiethnic party that would achieve dominance in a nation where the words ''majority'' and ''minority'' were losing their meaning. Mr. Bush was adamant, in the days after the terrorist attacks of 2001, that American Muslims not become the targets of public resentment, and he later pushed a plan to offer illegal immigrants a path toward citizenship.
Republicans are now taking a decidedly different approach. Last week, a group of senior Republican senators called for hearings on repealing the 14th Amendment; that's the one that affords children born on American soil automatic citizenship. At the same time, Sarah Palin and Newt Gingrich were among those posting outraged Twitter updates over the decision to allow an Islamic center and mosque near the site of the fallen trade center towers.
These stands garnered a fair amount of publicity, and at a moment of voter insurrection, they may well yield short-term advantages for the party. History suggests, however, that the long term may be more problematic. 
In both controversies, there are legitimate debates to be had. The 14th Amendment, after all, was enacted in 1868 as a means of ensuring that black Americans would be granted a full slate of rights in the era after slavery. Critics of immigration policy argue, not unreasonably, that it now has the effect of encouraging Latino immigrants to slip across the border and have children who aren't entitled to the opportunities of citizenship. The senator who first raised the issue last week, the moderate Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, can hardly be described as an anti-immigrant crusader.
The debate over the Islamic center, to be named Cordoba House, is also complex. Critics, including the Anti-Defamation League, said it was simply too insensitive to victims' families, regardless of one's commitment to freedom of worship.
It's hard, though, to make a thoughtful case for anything in 140 characters or in a 30-second cable TV clip, and the way that some Republicans happily pounced on these debates could reasonably be characterized as political opportunism. (Rick Lazio, the Republican running for governor of New York, darkly suggested that radical entities might be behind the building of the mosque, as if the most publicly scrutinized building on the East Coast might strike someone as a good place to locate a sleeper cell.)
Conservative politicians were playing to the moment; in a recent CNN poll, 62 percent of respondents said the policies that made America a ''melting pot'' in the early 20th century were a good thing, while only 31 percent said the same policies were making the country stronger now.
Giving that resentment an outlet at the polls, some politicians seem to think, will propel them past the Democrats in November--and maybe even right into 2012.
On some level, the reactions to both issues that surfaced last week, or at least the more reductive versions of them that ricocheted online, were about the basic question of who gets to share in the American experience -- whether that means the experience of citizenship or, in the case of the mosque, the experience of grieving for Americans lost.
A nativist impulse underlies this type of political appeal, and it is not new. It springs, perhaps, more from human nature than from any defect in the American character; when our way of life feels imperiled, we tend to cast a wary eye toward those who embody otherness. At moments throughout our history, when there loomed the perception of a threat to the established order of things, we have sought clarity on the issue of who fully belongs in the society and who doesn't.
Sometimes the threat is economic or cultural. The 1850s, for instance, saw the rise of the American Party -- more commonly called the Know Nothings, because that was their response to any inquiries about their secret activities. Like us, they found themselves stranded in a fast-changing society, its economy transformed by emerging railroads and this gizmo called the telegraph.
''If your status was slipping, and if your grandfather had been a general in the Revolution but now you had no access to the new money, you could feel like your country was going away,'' explains Ted Widmer, a Brown University historian who wrote a book on the period. The Know Nothings responded by lashing out at Catholic immigrants from Germany and Ireland. Some members supposedly stole a stone meant for the Washington Monument, because it was a gift from the pope, and threw it into the Potomac River.
At other times, the societal peril has been physical and imminent. After the attack on Pearl Harbor, for instance, Franklin Roosevelt and his New Dealers oversaw the forced relocation of more than 100,000 people of Japanese descent. Most were citizens, made suspect by their customs and their language.
Nothing quite so drastic has occurred amid the anxiety of the current moment, one that reflects, perhaps, a collision of forces both economic and existential. First, we have endured the decades-long sputtering of the industrial engine that once powered America's towns and cities, the shuttering of factories and downtown storefronts. This has created the sense among some voters -- not always illusory, by any means -- that their jobs and neighborhoods are endangered by interlopers, a fear that has empowered a long line of populist politicians and commentators.
And then came the cataclysm of 2001, when a new era's foreign enemies made themselves known on American soil, leaving in their wake a lingering sense of vulnerability, reminiscent of the cold war.
These trends have opened the door, once again, to nativist appeals -- some more subtle than others. And because of the political realignment that began in 1980 (when the term ''Reagan Democrats'' -- meaning ethnic whites -- entered the lexicon) and reached its apex in 1994, when the South tipped into the Republican column, the voters who are most susceptible to such appeals reside, at this juncture in our politics, primarily in the Republican base.
When Mr. Bush, a Texan fluent both in Spanish and in immigration policy, advanced a plan to reform the system in 2006, he was going directly into the teeth of that sentiment within his own party. His failure virtually guaranteed that his party -- already beset by an unpopular war and mounting distrust from black Americans -- would not become the broader coalition he had hoped to build.
This could be a problem for Republicans in the years ahead, as the American electorate rapidly grows more diverse. ''You can win elections temporarily by accumulating large percentages of the white vote,'' says Matthew Dowd, who was a top strategist in Mr. Bush's two elections, ''but over time, it's unsustainable.''
It's also true that however much the forces of American exclusivity may bob their way to the surface from time to time, the current of our history seems to carry us toward a more inclusive ideal. As Mr. Widmer points out, when the Know Nothings petered out rather quickly (it was hard to hate immigrants when they were dying on Civil War battlefields), some sizable number of them meandered over to Abraham Lincoln and his new Republican Party.
It turned out that what the Know Nothings really detested, even more than immigrants, were two entrenched parties -- Democrats and Whigs -- who offered no persuasive solutions to the agony of displacement. Leadership, of a more genuine sort, carried the day.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 15, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A article last Sunday about the changing Republican stance on immigration misspelled the given name of a Republican senator from South Carolina who first raised repealing the 14th Amendment, which grants citizenship to anyone born in the United States. He is Lindsey Graham, not Lindsay. The article also referred imprecisely to the 100,000 people forced to relocate to camps during World War II. While they were of Japanese descent, they were not necessarily Japanese immigrants. (Most were American-born citizens.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Birthright: Several Republican senators are calling for the repeal of the 14th Amendment, which gives citizenship to those born on American soil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (WK1)
 Controversy: Plans for an Islamic center near ground zero drew fierce criticism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE/GETTY IMAGES) (WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIZENSHIP (77%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); TERRORISM (71%); GOVERNORS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010



190 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: How to Lose an Election Without Really Trying

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
COULD George W. Bush be a kind of Gipper-in-reverse and win yet one more for the Democrats? Clearly this White House sees him as the gift that will keep on giving. The 2010 campaign against the Bush administration is in full cry, with President Obama leading the charge. The Republicans are ''betting on amnesia,'' he confidently told the claque at a recent fund-raiser. ''They don't have a single idea that's different from George Bush's ideas.'' It's now the incessant party line.
Sounds plausible, but it's Obama who's on the wrong side of that bet, to his own political peril. 
Betting on amnesia is almost always a winning, not a losing, wager in America. Angry demonstrators at health care town-hall meetings didn't remember that Medicare is a government program, and fewer and fewer voters of both parties recall that the widely loathed TARP was a Bush administration creation supported by the G.O.P. Congressional leadership. So many Republicans don't know Obama is a natural citizen -- 41 percent in a poll last week -- that we must (charitably) assume some of them have forgotten that Hawaii was granted statehood. The G.O.P. chairman is sufficiently afflicted with amnesia that he matter-of-factly regaled an audience with the counterfactual observation that the war in Afghanistan, Bush's immediate response to 9/11, began under Obama.
The president is also wrong when he says that every single current G.O.P. idea is a Bush idea. Many are not. And those that are not are far more radical.
A political campaign built on Obama's faulty premises cannot stand -- or win. The polls remain as intractable as the 9.5 percent unemployment rate no matter how insistently the Democrats pummel Bush. To add to Democratic panic, there's their ''enthusiasm gap'' with the Tea-Party-infused G.O.P., and the Rangel-Waters double bill coming this fall to a cable channel near you. Some Democrats took solace in one recent poll finding that if Republican economic ideas were branded as ''Bush'' ideas, the pendulum would swing a whopping 49 percentage points in their favor. But even in that feel-good survey, only a quarter of the respondents were worried that a G.O.P. Congress would actually bring back Bush policies.
Bleak as this picture looks for the Democrats, it is so only up to a point. No one knows what will happen on an Election Day almost three months away. One encouraging sign for the party in power is the over-the-top triumphalism of the right. Conservative pundits are churning out daily prognostications with headlines like ''Ten More Reasons Dems Are Toast.'' A recent Wall Street Journal front-page news story hyping a far-fetched Republican scenario for retaking the Senate was something of a nostalgic throwback to the kind of wishful thinking that inspired ''Dewey Defeats Truman.''
But rather than wait for miracles or pray that Bushphobia will save the day, Democrats might instead start playing the hand they've been dealt. Elections, the cliche goes, are about the future, not the past. At the very least they're about the present. It's time voters were told just how far right the G.O.P. has lurched since Bush returned to Texas. And the White House might also at long last -- at very long last -- craft a compelling message, not to mention a plan, to offer real hope to the jobless. Repeated boasts of a resurgent auto industry (where the work force is 30 percent smaller than prerecession) won't persuade anyone, and neither will repeated assurances that legislation passed months ago will kick in over the long haul. Some 16.5 percent of America's workers are now either unemployed and trying to find a job, involuntarily working part time, or have stopped looking for work altogether. That figure doesn't even include the many Americans who've had to settle for jobs for which they are overqualified.
For Obama even to stipulate that the G.O.P. has ideas about how to deal with this crisis is generous. Consultants are telling Republicans to advance no new programs at all, given how far a simple no to the president has taken them thus far, and they are following orders. But what we can discern of the Republican ''ideas'' lying in wait almost makes Bush's conservatism actually seem compassionate.
The public is largely unaware of this because the conservative establishment in both Washington and the press has been relentless in its effort to separate the G.O.P. from the excesses of the Palin-Fox-Beck-Breitbart bomb throwers and from wacky Tea Party senatorial candidates like Sharron Angle of Nevada and Rand Paul of Kentucky. To hear most non-Fox conservative pundits tell it on Sunday talk shows or op-ed pages, these unruly radicals are just a passing craze. The new post-Bush G.O.P., we're told, is exemplified by responsible, traditional small-government conservative governors like Mitch Daniels (of Indiana) or Chris Christie (of New Jersey).
But it's Daniels and Christie who are the anomalies. The leaders who would actually take over should the Republicans regain Congress are far closer to the revolutionaries than most voters imagine. Take Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, who has been relentlessly promoted by the right as the intellectual golden boy of the G.O.P. and who would be elevated to chairman of the powerful budget committee in a Republican House. His much publicized ''Roadmap for America's Future'' -- hailed by Fred Barnes of The Weekly Standard as ''the most important proposal in domestic policy'' since Reagan's voodoo economics -- not only revives the failed Bush proposal of partially privatizing Social Security but tops him by replacing Medicare with a voucher system that, like Ryan's skewed tax cuts, would benefit the superrich while raising taxes and medical costs for everyone else.
Ryan's proposal has only 13 co-sponsors in the House (out of 178 G.O.P. members). That number is low, he recently conceded, because his colleagues are ''talking to their pollsters, and their pollsters are saying: 'Stay away from this. We're going to win an election.' '' Once that election is won, the road will be clear and the ideologues will take over the asylum. Ryan's radicalism will be abetted by the new House speaker, John Boehner, who didn't even wait for the BP well to be plugged to announce that ''a moratorium on new federal regulations'' would be ''a great idea.''
In the theoretically more sober Senate, the G.O.P.'s rightward shift is arguably even more drastic. The pernicious Bush economic orthodoxy -- tax cuts as a magic elixir to both create jobs and reduce deficits -- remains gospel even as two veterans of Reaganomics, Alan Greenspan and David Stockman, have gone public over the past week to disavow it. But factor in the Senate's rush to xenophobia, and Bush, who pushed hard for immigration reform, starts to look like Nelson Mandela.
Now we have a Republican Senate leader, Mitch McConnell, joined by such onetime ''moderates'' as John McCain and Charles Grassley, calling for hearings to ''look into'' the 14th Amendment. That Reconstruction landmark, guaranteeing citizenship to anyone born in America, was such a prideful accomplishment of the old Party of Lincoln that the official G.O.P. Web site has been showcasing it to counter the Republicans' current identity as a whites-only country club. Even Lindsey Graham -- who could rightfully be anointed ''This Year's Maverick'' by The Times Magazine as recently as July 4 -- has joined the 14th Amendment revisionists and is slurring immigrants as baby machines who come to America to ''drop a child'' for nefarious purposes. The Hispanic-bashing has gotten so ugly that Michael Gerson, the former Bush speechwriter, wrote last week that Graham and McCain ''may never fully recover'' their reputations.
Given this spectacle, Obama and the Democrats are, if anything, flattering the current G.O.P. by accusing it of being a carbon copy of Bush. But even if the Democrats sharpen their attack, they are doomed to fall short if they don't address the cancer in the American heart -- joblessness. This requires stunning emergency action right now, August recess be damned. Instead we get the Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, offering the thin statistical gruel that job growth has returned ''at an earlier stage of this recovery than in the last two recoveries.''
The tragically tone-deaf Geithner is on his latest happy-days-are-almost-here-again tour. He made that point in multiple television appearances as well as in a Times Op-Ed page article in which he vowed to ''do more'' to give workers ''the skills they need to re-enter the 21st-century economy.'' On the same day his essay appeared last week, The Times ran a front-page report on ''99ers,'' the growing band of desperate jobless Americans who have exhausted their 99 weeks of unemployment insurance benefits. The 99er featured in Michael Luo's article, a 49-year-old unemployed corporate worker named Alexandra Jarrin, is a late-in-life college graduate and onetime business school student who owes $92,000, as she put it, ''for an education which is basically worthless.'' She's on the verge of homelessness not because she lacks the skills she needs to re-enter the 21st-century economy. She and countless others like her, skilled and unskilled, lack jobs, period.
The Democrats have already retreated from immigration and energy reform. If they can't make the case to Americans like Alexandra Jarrin that they offer more hope for a job than a radical conservative movement poised to tear down what remains of the safety net, they deserve to lose.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MEDICARE (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



191 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Go Slow on the Moratorium

 BODY:
From the moment he imposed it on May 27, President Obama has been under pressure to lift the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Louisiana politicians have argued that the shutdown has done more than the oil spill to cripple the local economy; economists have predicted mass layoffs; and industry has warned of an exodus of rigs to more drilling-friendly parts of the world. The drumbeat has grown louder now that the ruptured well has been plugged. 
The administration has heard but wisely resisted these entreaties. It has said it will end the moratorium before it expires on Nov. 30 only if it can be certain that the rigs are safe and that industry is far better prepared to deal with a blowout than it was when the Deepwater Horizon exploded in April.
This a perfectly defensible position.
Jobs have indeed been lost. The offshore oil economy depends more on the big deepwater rigs than on the production wells and shallow-water rigs still in business. Each of the big rigs employs 250 workers and provides jobs for three times that number in support services. With more than 30 wells covered by the moratorium, the total hit could theoretically come to 30,000 people.
Yet nearly a dozen of the rigs are operating under special exemptions, including the two that are digging the relief wells. Most of the rest have kept temporary crews on board, and only two rigs have left the gulf. BP has set aside $100 million for out-of-work rig workers.
Other factors besides jobs will affect the administration's thinking. One reason for the shutdown was that nobody wanted to risk another spill while the rogue well was gushing 50,000 barrels of oil a day; assuming the well stays plugged, thousands of workers and boats could now be redeployed to deal with another spill.
Administration officials also say they have been impressed with a promise by four major oil companies to commit $1 billion to a new containment system based on lessons learned from the BP disaster. And while its findings have been challenged as too rosy, last Wednesday's report from federal scientists that much of the oil has disappeared has added to the general sense of optimism.
Even so, this is no time for the administration to let down its guard. The spill exposed a deep-seated culture of carelessness and overconfidence in industry and among its federal overseers that cannot be expected to change overnight. And each day brings fresh reminders of how far industry has to go.
Ian Urbina's front-page story in Thursday's Times, for instance, disclosed that Transocean, the Deepwater Horizon's owner, was so worried about unsafe practices aboard its rigs that it ordered an independent investigation of its North American division. The investigation, which examined three other rigs besides the Deepwater Horizon, spoke of ''previous incidents and near hits experienced throughout the organization,'' as well as deferred maintenance and safety issues.
Transocean operates more than a dozen deepwater rigs in the gulf, and few complained more vigorously than its chief executive, Steven Newman, when the moratorium shut most of them down. His own report provides convincing evidence that the moratorium, at least for now, must remain in place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL SPILLS (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); LAYOFFS (77%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010



192 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Way Back Machine | The Mayor Is Shot

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS


HIGHLIGHT: The mayor of New York was shot a century ago on Monday. On a ship docked in Hoboken, no less. 

 BODY:
Most New York City mayors are typically booed at ballgames, but fortunately only one, William J. Gaynor, was wounded in an attempted assassination. It happened a century ago on Monday.
The bullet, fired by a disgruntled former municipal employee, remained lodged in Gaynor's neck. Three years later, suffering from the lingering effects of the wound, he succumbed to a heart attack - the only mayor of modern New York to die in office.
Although nominated by the Tammany machine in 1909, Gaynor emerged as a fiercely independent reformer. He fought police use of excessive force and corruption (though Police Lieut. Charles Becker would be convicted during Gaynor's tenure of ordering the murder of the gambler Herman Rosenthal). He championed mass transit. He abolished East River bridge tolls.
Few tangible signs of his legacy endure, though.
Astoria Park was promptly named in his honor, but Tammany aldermen later rescinded the designation. A Brooklyn intermediate school that bore his name was closed last year. With City Hall being renovated, his official portrait, which usually hangs on the third floor, is in storage.
A memorial to the former mayor still stands in Brooklyn's Cadman Plaza. And a plaque that he presented to St. Mary Hospital in Hoboken, N.J., where he was treated after the shooting, was found a few years ago by Michael Miscione, the Manhattan borough historian, in the basement of a Brooklyn building belonging to the Franciscan Sisters of the Poor. It's on loan to the Museum of the City of New York, where it is on display.
Born upstate in 1851, Gaynor became a reporter for The Brooklyn Argus. As a lawyer who lived in Park Slope (as mayor, he would typically walk to City Hall) and as a candidate for the State Supreme Court, he challenged John Y. McKane, the omnipotent Coney Island party boss, who was later convicted of criminally thwarting democracy. Gaynor was considered incorruptible. He literally kicked out of his office politicians who tried to buy his support.
Still, in a rare miscalculation, Tammany nominated him in 1909 against a field that included the publisher William Randolph Hearst. Gaynor won. His inauguration as New York's 97th mayor was his first visit to City Hall.
Seven months later, on Tuesday, Aug. 9, 1910, he boarded the liner Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse for a month-long European vacation. He was posing for photographers and chatting on the deck with well-wishers from his official family and with a fellow passenger, the president of Chile, when he was accosted by John J. Gallagher, who had been fired by the city's docks department a few weeks before as a 25-cents-an-hour night watchman on the East River piers.
Gallagher, a 58-year-old Irish immigrant who lived alone in a boarding house on Third Avenue, had been accused of dereliction of duty. He claimed he was the victim of a conspiracy. He wrote the mayor seeking redress. He also tried to meet with him a few days earlier at City Hall, but was rebuffed with a note that said the mayor "can do nothing in the matter of which you write."
"You took the bread and meat out of my mouth," Gallagher cried and fired several shots from a .38 revolver, striking the mayor and hitting his sanitation commissioner, William H. Edwards, a 300-pound former Princeton football player, in the arm.
"Tell the people goodbye for me," Gaynor gasped, believing that he was mortally wounded.
He was taken to St. Mary, where he recuperated for several weeks. He returned to City Hall on Oct. 3.
The shooting prompted such an outpouring of sympathy that short-lived boomlets of support projected Gaynor for the governorship and even the presidency. But the mayor spurned higher office.
"When a man has gone down into the Valley of the Shadow and looked the specter Death in the face, and said to it, 'I am ready,' nothing in this world looks very large to him," Gaynor wrote.
Shortly before the shooting, a constituent had warned him against going around the city unescorted. "I do no think anyone would do me any harm unless he was a lunatic, and it is hard to guard against lunatics," Gaynor replied.
Just after the shooting, Gaynor blamed "journalistic scoundrels" for stoking public sentiment against him and creating a climate for violence. (Apparently because Gaynor was ailing, Mr. Gallagher was never tried for shooting the mayor. He was sentenced to 12 years imprisonment for shooting Mr. Edwards and died in 1913 in a state hospital for the insane.)
A former lay member of the lay brotherhood of the Christian Order (he later renounced Catholicism), Gaynor could be secretive, scrappy, ill-tempered and blunt. He did not suffer fools. When he was introduced to a fanatical supporter of Sunday blue laws, a man who affected the title canon, Gaynor refused to shake hands and barked: "Canon? You're no canon. You're only a popgun."
Yet a friend also described him as melding "the methodical persistence of Grant and the tactical genius of Lee."
Just before sailing for Europe again on Sept. 4, 1913, he delivered a vituperative parting salvo at Tammany and planned an independent re-election campaign. In the meantime, he said, "I am going to spend two weeks on the ocean where nobody can get at me." He died aboard the steamship Baltic on Sept. 10.
Gaynor's body was returned to New York on the liner Lusitania. He was buried in Green-Wood Cemetery.
The following April, a 71-year-old unemployed blacksmith fired at Gaynor's successor, John Purroy Mitchel, in City Hall Plaza, but missed, striking the city's corporation counsel in the cheek instead. In defense, Mr. Mitchel drew his own revolver, which he had become accustomed to carrying (and with which, Mr. Miscione, the historian said, Mitchel once shot a friend in the leg by accident).

        
Justice Department Declines to Reopen Malcolm X Case
        
Way Back Machine | Doomsday, East Patchogue, 1925
        
Way Back Machine | Air Mail Arrives
        
Way Back Machine | Name That Bridge, 1931 Edition
        
Way Back Machine | You Think This Is Hot?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); CITIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); ASSASSINATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (76%); MURDER (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (54%) assassinations; Way Back Machine; William J. Gaynor; Gaynor, William J.; City Hall; Government & Politics; Local History; The Way Back Machine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012



193 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2010

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: How Much is Enough?

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Explorations of new routes to contentment for those at the top of the global income scale. 

 BODY:
 Aug. 9, 9:03 a.m. | Updated 
Stephanie Rosenbloom has a captivating story in The Times this weekend on Americans who are trying to take some steps back along the "work-spend treadmill." 
This is provocative, even dangerous, stuff, given how the concept cuts against so many norms, particularly as economists and politicians have pushed for more spending as the route out of persistent economic troubles. For a different view, read Ron Bailey's critique of my post on Adam Smith's forgotten warning that an economic orientation focused on growth can lead to "the endless pursuit of unnecessary things." And of course this is only really an issue for that rarefied slice of humanity for whom simplifying life is moving from San Francisco to a trailer in Malibu to focus on surfing.
But it's clear that on the path toward roughly 9 billion people seeking decent lives, it's worth examining both the top and bottom ends of the income curve. 
This kind of examination isn't just related to personal happiness or, say, environmental damage. John P. Holdren, now President Obama's science adviser, wrote in "Science and Technology for Sustainable Well-Being" that when you measure human harm in years of life lost (e.g., a child cut down by disease loses decades; a grandmother dying of a stroke at 80 loses a few years), the major afflictions of poverty and affluence do us in at roughly equal rates.
Some relevant pieces of mine can be found in this lengthening string of Dot Earth posts under the tag "wellbeing". 
I've also written a few pieces on the merits of making something once in awhile instead of buying something (tagged "DIY," for do it yourself).
Finally, have a look back at my 2005 news article, A New Measure of Wellbeing from a Happy Little Kingdom.
What have you read, or done, related to this notion of finding contentment through simplicity?
 Aug. 9, 8:55 a.m. | Updated In a column in The Times Sunday magazine, Judith Warner cautions against celebrating downsizing, asserting that the Great Recession has been far more wretched than redemptive for most people, with the rich just getting slightly less rich while the poor got poorer and the middle class lost a big slice of its hard-won wealth.

        
With Economy Still Trumping Emissions, Obama Plans an Education Push on Climate
        
African Science Academies Miss a Big Factor in Climate Statement
        
Will Storm's Wall Street Impact Influence U.S. Carbon Policy?
        
Why Climate Disasters Might Not Boost Public Engagement on Climate Change
        
On Romney, Obama and U.S. Investments in Science

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SCIENCE POLICY (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); CLIMATOLOGY (71%); EMISSIONS (71%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%) Consumer Behavior; Holdren, John P; Poverty; Rosenbloom, Stephanie; United States Economy; Warner, Judith; Economics; human nature

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); ADAM SMITH (56%) Holdren, John P; Rosenbloom, Stephanie; Warner, Judith

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012



194 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Colorado Races Could Test Depth of Discontent

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
GREENWOOD VILLAGE, Colo. -- Two Senate primaries that were supposed to be tranquil affairs have turned into roaring Rocky Mountain shootouts that could provide the best test yet of how deeply anti-establishment, anti-Washington sentiment is running this year.
With the outcomes set to be settled on Tuesday, independent analysts and party operatives say the contests between the Republicans, Ken Buck and Jane Norton, and the Democrats, Michael Bennet and Andrew Romanoff, are close, making it uncertain who will be left standing to compete in November for a seat that appears up for grabs.
It was not supposed to be this way.
Mr. Bennet, the incumbent who was appointed last year to fill a Senate vacancy, and Ms. Norton, a former lieutenant governor, were blessed early on by their parties' hierarchy. They were supposed to breeze to their respective nominations by virtue of the fund-raising help, as well as the stature, the White House could give Mr. Bennet, 45. Ms. Norton, 55, stood to gain the same benefits from the imprimatur of leading national Republicans and the United States Chamber of Commerce. 
But Mr. Romanoff, 43, a former Colorado House speaker, and Mr. Buck, 51, a veteran prosecutor, could not be dissuaded from challenging the favored choices. Now they find themselves with a chance to win.
Should they triumph, it would represent a stinging repudiation of the Obama administration and of the Washington Republicans who coalesced around Ms. Norton.
''It would be a huge slam in both cases on the respective establishments,'' said Floyd Ciruli, an independent pollster in Denver.
Policy differences in the races are subtle. Mr. Buck and Ms. Norton both promise to cut federal spending, repeal the new health care law and get tough on immigration; Mr. Bennet and Mr. Romanoff pledge to help create jobs, aid struggling families and push alternative energy sources. Given the common policy themes, the insurgent-versus-establishment narrative has loomed large.
Mr. Buck has built his campaign around the notion that he is the outsider, playing that card to the hilt as he traveled the state to meet with Tea Party activists and like-minded groups while castigating Congressional Republicans as well as Democrats for the nation's economic straits.
He notes that Ms. Norton has been endorsed by most sitting Republican senators; got fund-raising help from the head of the National Republican Senatorial Committee; is the sister-in-law of Charles R. Black, a top Republican consultant in Washington; and was encouraged to join the race by Senator John McCain of Arizona, who appeared with Ms. Norton over the weekend.
Mr. Buck has been endorsed by Senator Jim DeMint, a South Carolina conservative who has split with party leaders on backing challengers this year. But unlike other fire-breathing conservatives who defeated Republicans embraced by party heavyweights in Kentucky, Nevada and Utah, Mr. Buck is no newcomer to politics.
Born in New York and educated at Princeton, he served as the lawyer for Dick Cheney, then a congressman, during the Iran-Contra hearings and worked three years for the Justice Department. He served 14 years in the United States attorney's office in Colorado before being elected district attorney of Weld County, north of Denver, in 2004.
''I am not saying I don't have a lot of connections,'' Mr. Buck said in an interview at his Denver campaign office. ''I am saying I am not the candidate of Washington, D.C.''
His extensive government resume is not lost on Ms. Norton, who scoffs at her opponent's efforts to claim the outsider mantle and points out that he is married to a former co-chairwoman of the state party.
''It is a clever thing to brand yourself as,'' Ms. Norton said at an appearance at a picnic for Arapahoe County Republicans in this conservative bastion outside Denver. ''But he has been a government lawyer for how many years? I am the only native-born Coloradan, the only one in this race on both the Republican and Democratic side who isn't an Ivy League attorney.''
Mr. Buck attended Princeton, Mr. Bennet and Mr. Romanoff were schooled at Yale, and neither Democrat was born in the Centennial State, though they have put down roots there. Mr. Romanoff won four terms in the state legislature, rising to speaker, while Mr. Bennet served as Denver's school superintendent.
In a twist, Mr. Bennet, though technically the incumbent, is the only one of the four candidates who has never won election to public office. His appointment by Gov. Bill Ritter to fill the seat vacated by Ken Salazar when Mr. Salazar became interior secretary was a surprise, but he has come to be highly regarded by his Democratic Senate colleagues.
The White House has made it a priority to elect Mr. Bennet to a full term. President Obama traveled to Colorado to raise money and endorse him -- a moment replayed in Bennet television ads -- and even participated in a telephone town-hall-style meeting last week. Over the weekend, workers at the Democratic National Committee set up a phone bank on Mr. Bennet's behalf.
But neither the concerted party push for Mr. Bennet nor the prospect of an administration job deterred Mr. Romanoff, who last month sold his residence to generate money for his final campaign blitz. (The White House has acknowledged that a top official had suggested a possible administration job to Mr. Romanoff to get him not to challenge Mr. Bennet.)
''I know a lot of people in Washington were not keen on this exercise in democracy,'' Mr. Romanoff said of his decision to challenge Mr. Bennet, ''but I am not running to represent them. I am running to represent Colorado. Coloradans are quite capable of making up their own minds.''
He has erased Mr. Bennet's substantial early lead in polls, partially with an endorsement from former President Bill Clinton and the help of a very tough ad titled ''Greed,'' which claims that a firm that was managed by Mr. Bennet ''looted'' a struggling movie theater chain in a financial deal.
On Friday, Mr. Romanoff began running a new ad citing a New York Times article that raised questions about financing deals Mr. Bennet engineered while he was the school superintendent in order to close a pension shortfall.
Mr. Bennet has hit back against Mr. Romanoff and the Times article, saying both were off base. As for the business deal attacked by Mr. Romanoff, Mr. Bennet said that he did the right thing in rescuing a distressed chain of theaters. He said that if anyone were an outsider in his race, it would be him, given his lack of previous political experience.
''I spent my entire life outside of politics and never ran for office before,'' he said in an interview on Sunday. ''I bring a perspective that is different from what a lot of people in Washington bring to the job and what Andrew would bring.''
Mr. Buck and Ms. Norton have engaged in an intense back and forth as well, with Ms. Norton essentially challenging Mr. Buck's manhood for allowing an independent group to run television commercials attacking her on his behalf.
In a retort that was caught on video, Mr. Buck said Colorado voters should back him because ''I do not wear high heels.'' That sparked ads and accusations from the Norton campaign that he was making sexist aspersions. A Norton sign at the Republican picnic featured a pink high-heeled pump with the message ''The Buck Stops Here.''
Mr. Buck was also captured on video disparaging proponents of the anti-Obama ''birther'' movement who attended his campaign events, drawing more criticism from Ms. Norton. Both events may have slowed the momentum of the Buck campaign after he appeared to be pulling ahead this summer.
But even though she has establishment backing, Ms. Norton is not campaigning that way -- characterizing Washington as out of control and joining the other candidates in disparaging the capital culture.
''All four of them are trying hard to figure out how to get as far away from Washington as they can,'' said Kenneth Bickers, head of the political science department at the University of Colorado in Boulder, ''even though they all want to get elected to go to Washington.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jane Norton, a Republican candidate for Senate and former lieutenant governor, at a picnic in Greenwood Village for Arapahoe County Republicans. The sign is a retort to Ken Buck, her rival.
 Mr. Buck, the district attorney of Weld County, or Ms. Norton will face off in November against the winner of Tuesday's Democratic primary between Michael Bennet and Andrew Romanoff. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); HEALTH CARE LAW (63%); JOB CREATION (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BENNET (90%); JIM DEMINT (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010



195 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Economic Slowdown Catches Up With Nascar

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and DAVE CALDWELL; Richard Sandomir contributed reporting. Dave Caldwell reported from Long Pond, Pa.

 BODY:
After years of jam-packed races, sky-high television ratings and record merchandise sales, Nascar has seen attendance at nearly every track slip this year as recession-weary fans continue to cut costs.
The Behler family could see that firsthand while sitting atop their old school bus in the infield at Pocono Raceway for last week's race in Long Pond, Pa. From that perch, they saw empty patches of grass with untrampled dandelions that in years past were covered by other spectators' cars, campers and trailers.
Fans like the Behlers who are showing up to races are spending less, too.
''Everybody's still coming, but no one's spending,'' said Susan Behler, who arrived last Sunday, race day, instead of Friday night to save money. ''Three years ago, I used to spend $200 or $300 every time I came here. Now, it's a question: do I need it?'' 
Other sports leagues have been hurt the past two years. But Nascar -- with its heavier reliance on working-class fans, low fuel prices and the beleaguered auto industry -- has suffered disproportionately, racing industry executives say. Ratings on television, sales of licensed goods and sponsorships, the lifeblood of the sport, are also suffering. Several racing teams have merged in the last three years.
Nascar compounded matters, the executives say, by changing its rules in ways that made the racing safer but stripped the sport of some of the spontaneity that made it compelling. Under pressure, Nascar has reversed some of those moves, helping to rejuvenate competition on the track this season. With the economy on the mend, Nascar and its teams, sponsors, track owners and broadcasters seem confident that the worst is over.
The larger question, though, is whether in the coming years, the sport will return to its glory of the early 2000s as a money-printing juggernaut, a barometer of Middle American tastes and a political bellwether, or whether it will become a more modest, streamlined version of itself.
''It was a good candy bar when it was right,'' said H. A. Wheeler, the former president of Lowe's Motor Speedway (now Charlotte Motor Speedway) and Speedway Motorsports Inc. ''It's still a good candy bar, but people are tinkering with the mix. A lot of sports lose momentum, and they can get it back, but it takes a lot of work.''
Some in the sport say that the family dynasty that controls Nascar is also to blame for its recent woes. The France family has been criticized as imperialistic and secretive. Big Bill France, who founded Nascar in 1947, drove Nascar with a firm hand, as did his son, Bill, who died in 2007. The younger Bill's son, Brian, who is now the chairman, oversaw recent changes like the introduction of the Car of Tomorrow, which was designed to improve safety but ended up stifling some of the rough-and-tumble feel of the races.
Nascar, track owners, drivers and others have worked to reverse the tide. To lure fans back, track owners have cut ticket prices, worked with hotels to waive minimum-stay requirements and added dining options. Carfax and the Michigan International Speedway will sell gas for 99 cents a gallon at a station near the track. Nascar created a 12,000-member fan council that is regularly consulted.
In response to the council, races on Sundays now begin consistently at 1 p.m. so fans can attend church without missing any of the action. There is discussion about ways to shorten races.
On the track, Nascar required drivers to put spoilers back on their cars to improve the racing and make them look more like older stock cars; passed rules to encourage more bumper-to-bumper driving; and urged drivers to voice their opinions to spice up the rivalries and offset criticism that the sport had become too sanitized. A few drivers have sparked feuds, which make for great theater. But others have bashed the sport and its organizers, which has led to fines.
''We made it clear that we want drivers to express their personalities,'' said Andrew Giangola, Nascar's director of business communications. ''We're competing against Disney and the local amusement parks.''
Many involved in Nascar say these changes have helped revitalize the races. In past years, drivers from the top multicar teams -- like Hendrick Motorsports, which fields the four-time champion Jimmie Johnson -- have dominated the races. So far this season, there have been averages of 12 leaders per race and of 26 lead changes, both records. Nearly 50 drivers have held the lead for at least one lap.
The renewed excitement on the track, however, has not fully translated into success at the gate. Through the first 22 races this season, attendance declined at 16 races compared with a year ago. About 140,000 fans attended the Brickyard 400 in Indianapolis this year, half as many as in 2007.
On Thursday, Atlanta Motor Speedway said it would lose one of its two Sprint Cup races next year, in the first realignment of Nascar's crowded schedule, in an effort to boost attendance. Nascar is also considering changes to add drama to the Chase for the Sprint Cup, the 10 races at the end of the season that determine the series winner.
Television ratings have faltered as well. In February, 13.3 million viewers watched the iconic Daytona 500, compared with 15.9 million viewers last year; viewership for the Brickyard 400 on ESPN fell 12 percent.
''The racing so far has been terrific this year, as competitive as it's been in years,'' said John Wildhack, an executive vice president at ESPN, which is packing Nascar content into broadcasts of ''SportsCenter'' that follow the races. But ''it'll take time for the changes to resonate.''
National television coverage raised billions of dollars and turned the sport into a household name, but it also gave fans another reason to avoid going to the track and spending on lodging, food, tickets and merchandise.
''Why pay for a seat in the stands when you can see everything on TV?'' said Tom Hayes of Torrington, Conn., who attended the race at Pocono.
Nascar certainly is still a behemoth. Races routinely draw more than 100,000 fans, and television viewership is second only to that of N.F.L. games among major sports.
Yet the days of easy money may have passed. A four-time champion, Jeff Gordon, does not have a full-time sponsor for next year because DuPont, which has had its logo on Gordon's car for 17 years, has not committed to remaining with him. Kevin Harvick, who is leading in the standings this season, does not have a major sponsor for 2011, either. Fans, too, may be slow to open their wallets. About $1 billion worth of Nascar merchandise was sold last year, 23 percent below the peak set in 2006, and sales are expected to dip again this year, according to The Licensing Letter, an industry newsletter.
''Once you change your habits, it's going to make it tough for us to get them back in the mode'' of spending, said Richard Petty, who was one of Nascar's most famous drivers and now owns a team. ''Nascar, the sponsors we have, the car owners, we're sitting here scratching our head. But I don't think we know what the answers are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Empty seats were common last month at the Brickyard 400 in Indianapolis, where attendance was about half that of 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARRON CUMMINGS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Fans watched a Sprint Cup race last weekend at Pocono Raceway in Long Pond, Pa. Dale Earnhardt, far left, among the most popular drivers, with Bill France Jr., the son of Nascar's founder, in 2000. The sport has suffered since their deaths. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUSTY JARRETT/GETTY IMAGES FOR NASCAR
 CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D2) CHART: Losing Audience: Ratings for Sprint Cup races on broadcast television fell 25 percent from 2005 to 2009. (Source: Nielsen Company) (D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); SPORTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (53%)

COMPANY: SPEEDWAY MOTORSPORTS INC (83%); LOWE'S MOTOR SPEEDWAY INC (63%)

TICKER: TRK (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (83%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (52%) FRANCE (86%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010



196 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: America Goes Dark

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The lights are going out all over America -- literally. Colorado Springs has made headlines with its desperate attempt to save money by turning off a third of its streetlights, but similar things are either happening or being contemplated across the nation, from Philadelphia to Fresno.
Meanwhile, a country that once amazed the world with its visionary investments in transportation, from the Erie Canal to the Interstate Highway System, is now in the process of unpaving itself: in a number of states, local governments are breaking up roads they can no longer afford to maintain, and returning them to gravel. 
And a nation that once prized education -- that was among the first to provide basic schooling to all its children -- is now cutting back. Teachers are being laid off; programs are being canceled; in Hawaii, the school year itself is being drastically shortened. And all signs point to even more cuts ahead.
We're told that we have no choice, that basic government functions -- essential services that have been provided for generations -- are no longer affordable. And it's true that state and local governments, hit hard by the recession, are cash-strapped. But they wouldn't be quite as cash-strapped if their politicians were willing to consider at least some tax increases.
And the federal government, which can sell inflation-protected long-term bonds at an interest rate of only 1.04 percent, isn't cash-strapped at all. It could and should be offering aid to local governments, to protect the future of our infrastructure and our children.
But Washington is providing only a trickle of help, and even that grudgingly. We must place priority on reducing the deficit, say Republicans and ''centrist'' Democrats. And then, virtually in the next breath, they declare that we must preserve tax cuts for the very affluent, at a budget cost of $700 billion over the next decade.
In effect, a large part of our political class is showing its priorities: given the choice between asking the richest 2 percent or so of Americans to go back to paying the tax rates they paid during the Clinton-era boom, or allowing the nation's foundations to crumble -- literally in the case of roads, figuratively in the case of education -- they're choosing the latter.
It's a disastrous choice in both the short run and the long run.
In the short run, those state and local cutbacks are a major drag on the economy, perpetuating devastatingly high unemployment.
It's crucial to keep state and local government in mind when you hear people ranting about runaway government spending under President Obama. Yes, the federal government is spending more, although not as much as you might think. But state and local governments are cutting back. And if you add them together, it turns out that the only big spending increases have been in safety-net programs like unemployment insurance, which have soared in cost thanks to the severity of the slump.
That is, for all the talk of a failed stimulus, if you look at government spending as a whole you see hardly any stimulus at all. And with federal spending now trailing off, while big state and local cutbacks continue, we're going into reverse.
But isn't keeping taxes for the affluent low also a form of stimulus? Not so you'd notice. When we save a schoolteacher's job, that unambiguously aids employment; when we give millionaires more money instead, there's a good chance that most of that money will just sit idle.
And what about the economy's future? Everything we know about economic growth says that a well-educated population and high-quality infrastructure are crucial. Emerging nations are making huge efforts to upgrade their roads, their ports and their schools. Yet in America we're going backward.
How did we get to this point? It's the logical consequence of three decades of antigovernment rhetoric, rhetoric that has convinced many voters that a dollar collected in taxes is always a dollar wasted, that the public sector can't do anything right.
The antigovernment campaign has always been phrased in terms of opposition to waste and fraud -- to checks sent to welfare queens driving Cadillacs, to vast armies of bureaucrats uselessly pushing paper around. But those were myths, of course; there was never remotely as much waste and fraud as the right claimed. And now that the campaign has reached fruition, we're seeing what was actually in the firing line: services that everyone except the very rich need, services that government must provide or nobody will, like lighted streets, drivable roads and decent schooling for the public as a whole.
So the end result of the long campaign against government is that we've taken a disastrously wrong turn. America is now on the unlit, unpaved road to nowhere.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BONDS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); POLITICS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010



197 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Investor Appetite for Bonds in a Tepid Recovery Weighs on Rates

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Just how low can interest rates go?
Rates keep falling, and Wall Street increasingly seems convinced that they will stay low for years. But it isn't the Federal Reserve that is cutting them -- it is the bond market. The weak-kneed economy has investors piling into United States Treasury securities, driving prices up and yields down.
The stampede into bonds is lowering the rates on things as diverse as home mortgages and corporate loans. The two-year Treasury rate sank to a record low on Friday, briefly edging below 0.5 percent. Thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages have fallen below 4.5 percent -- another record. And, with clouds gathering over the economic recovery, the Fed is expected to hold its benchmark rate near zero this week. 
All of this is good news for people borrowing money, but bad for those saving it in bank accounts and money market funds. The average one-year certificate of deposit now pays 1.3 percent a year. Such meager returns are particularly painful for people living on fixed incomes.
But rates are unlikely to turn higher soon, economists say. In fact, they could fall even further. While the Fed cannot lower its official federal funds rate much more -- that rate has been stuck at 0.25 percent all year -- it can ease credit in other ways.
On Wall Street, a consensus is forming that the Fed might take less conventional steps, like buying more Treasury securities, to push market rates lower still.
Ward McCarthy, the chief financial economist at Jefferies & Company and a longtime Fed watcher, said he expected the Fed to formally acknowledge that, in the words of its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, the outlook for the economy is now ''unusually uncertain.'' Given the glum outlook, the Fed will probably take other steps to ease credit, like reinvesting proceeds from its holdings of mortgage bonds and Treasuries into short-term Treasuries, Mr. McCarthy said in an e-mail.
Market rates have already dropped precipitously this year. The 10-year Treasury yield -- a benchmark for a wide range of loans and one of the most closely watched rates in the world -- has fallen by more than a full percentage point since early April. It dropped further on Friday, to 2.82 percent, as disappointing news on employment added to the worries about the economy. The rate is still above the 2.06 percent nadir touched in December 2008, in the depths of the financial storm.
William H. Gross, a managing director at Pimco, the giant bond fund manager, said the jobs report strengthened his argument that the economy and the job market would remain weak for the next few years. He calls his unhappy situation ''the new normal'' for the American economy.
''Currently, financial markets have accepted this thesis, the best evidence of which is the two-year Treasury yield at 0.50 percent,'' Mr. Gross said in an e-mail. ''If investors expected the Fed to raise rates at any time in the next two years, the yield would be much higher.''
Like Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Gross expects the federal policy makers to consider other steps, besides lowering rates directly, to try to revive growth. The Fed, for its part, will probably keep the fed funds rate at 0.25 percent for two to three years, he said.
Goldman Sachs economists said in a research note on Friday that they, too, think the Fed will respond to the weak jobs market with another round of unconventional easing. ''These measures could involve more asset purchases -- probably Treasury securities,'' the economists wrote. Those purchases could total at least $1 trillion, they said.
Lower and lower rates may eventually encourage corporations to invest the big stockpiles of cash in plants and equipment. That, in turn, could lead to new jobs. But if companies instead sit on their hands, waiting for sure signs of an economic revival, basement-level rates may not do much to spur the economy. The latter, Mr. Gross said, amounts to ''waiting for an economic Godot.''
But even if companies do not regain their nerve, bond investors will profit, since bond prices will keep climbing.
The bond crowd has done much better than stock investors lately. Since early May, the price of 10-year Treasuries has jumped about 6 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, by contrast, has fallen about 4.3 percent in that time.
Nariman Behravesh, the chief economist at IHS Global Insight, said the Fed would probably hold off raising rates until late next year. And if the economy deteriorated further, it might hold off until early 2012, he said.
''It is going to be quite some time before the Fed starts to tighten in any meaningful way,'' he said.
But what is bad news for savers is good news for borrowers, especially potential home buyers. A big hope is that low rates will eventually stimulate the housing market. And midsize and large companies, or at least the creditworthy ones, can borrow money at attractive rates in the corporate bond market, as well as from banks.
''Once we get through the foreclosure mess, housing could come back quite strongly,'' Mr. Behravesh said. ''There is a huge pent-up demand for housing.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Downward Pressure: Investors are flocking to bonds, driving down interest rates. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BOND FUNDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); PRICE INCREASES (56%)

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); BILL GROSS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010



198 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Amid Heightened Tensions, North Korea Seizes a South Korean Fishing Boat

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- North Korea seized a South Korean squidding boat in waters near their eastern sea border, the South Korean Coast Guard said Sunday, straining already high tensions between the two Koreas. 
The 41-ton boat was believed to have been detained after entering the North's exclusive economic zone, where foreign fishing boats are banned, the coast guard said in a statement.
There was no immediate confirmation from North Korea that its forces had impounded the squidding vessel. But the North Korean government, angry over an ambitious South Korean naval exercise due to end Monday, had said it would respond with ''strong physical retaliation'' and had warned civilian vessels to stay clear of the maritime border between the two Koreas.
Four South Koreans and three Chinese crew members were aboard the squidding vessel, the Daeseung 55.
When South Korean fisheries authorities contacted a crewman on the boat by satellite phone on Sunday afternoon, he said that the boat was being towed to Songjin, a port on the eastern coast of North Korea, for interrogation of the crew. Then the communication was cut off, coast guard officials said.
''Our government hopes for the safe return of our ship and crew according to international laws,'' the coast guard's statement said.
Inter-Korean relations have plunged to their lowest point in years since a South Korean warship, the Cheonan, was sunk in March, killing 46 sailors.
A South Korean investigation attributed the sinking to a North Korean torpedo. The North has denied responsibility and called the accusation a justification for warmongering by South Korea and its main ally, the United States.
As part of the aftermath of the Cheonan attack, the South Korean military has been conducting a major naval exercise off of the west coast of the divided peninsula involving 4,500 troops and more than two dozen ships.
In the years immediately following the 1950-53 Korean War, North Korea was accused of prowling into South Korean waters and kidnapping those on South Korean fishing boats. Hundreds of South Korean fishermen from those ships never returned home.
Such episodes have become rarer in recent decades. But fishing boats from either side have occasionally drifted into the other's waters, often after engine trouble. How fast they were released often depended on the tenor of bilateral relations at the time.
The South Korean squid ship left Pohang, a port on the east coast of South Korea, on Aug. 1 and was scheduled to return to port on Sept. 10. It made its last daily radio report to the South Korean Coast Guard on Saturday evening.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); KOREAN WAR (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); OCEANS (78%); FISHERIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010



199 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: As the Economy Slows ...

 BODY:
The economic news -- on growth, consumers, housing and manufacturing -- was bad enough before the jobs report for July, released last Friday. The report leaves no doubt that a slowdown is well under way. The odds of renewed recession remain uncomfortably high. 
And yet, the response from Washington has been inadequate, at best, with Democratic initiatives too timid and Republicans bent on obstruction. When legislation does emerge from the gridlock, it is invariably a disappointment in the face of a dissolving recovery.
Case in point: Another 131,000 jobs were lost in July, according to the latest employment report, and job loss in June was revised to 221,000, from 125,000. The unemployment rate held steady, at 9.5 percent, but that is only because 181,000 people quit looking for work last month.
Such ''missing workers,'' those who either have dropped out or have never entered the labor force since the recession began, now number 3.9 million. That's on top of 14.6 million officially unemployed and 8.5 million who are working part time but need full-time jobs.
There is no positive spin for this. Many of the recent losses resulted from the end of temporary jobs with the Census, but private-sector employment has also slowed sharply. At the same time, huge budget shortfalls have led to escalating job loss among state and local government workers. Against that backdrop, the Senate passed a bill last week -- just before its summer break -- to provide an additional $26 billion in aid to the states, including paying for 140,000 teachers. Speaker Nancy Pelosi called the House back from vacation, and it is expected to approve the aid this week.
What gets lost in the frenzy is the fact that the measure started out as a $50 billion effort -- divided between help for states to pay their share of Medicaid bills and aid for education. At that level, it was a reasonable response to anticipated budget shortfalls estimated at well over $100 billion this year. Now, deep spending cuts and tax increases will still be needed to balance budgets, undermining the recovery.
Worse, the bill was scaled down as it was becoming increasingly clear that the economy was deteriorating, a sign of the rift between policy making and reality.
The Senate left town last week without passing a modest bill to spur small-business lending. Republicans used delay tactics to block a vote. Now the bill will not move until fall, a setback that could ripple through the Senate calendar, putting other plans to create jobs in energy and infrastructure in legislative limbo.
With unemployment persistently high, the economy is losing whatever momentum it had after last year's stimulus. Recovery, such as it is, appears to be a repeat of the lopsided growth of the Bush years, with corporate profits rebounding and jobs and incomes lagging. Back then, policy makers advised patience, saying that with time, economic gains would distribute themselves more evenly. We know how that ended.
There is no one way to foster job growth. There are many ways, and they should all be deployed. Maybe after Congress gets back from vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); DISMISSALS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); APPROVALS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); MEDICAID (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010



200 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2329 words

HEADLINE: A PARISH TESTED; From Haiti, Looking to Family 1,500 Miles North for Help

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -- As Alourds Grandoit hitches her chair across the yard, following the spots of shade, her thoughts linger mostly on the dead: 10 relatives lost in the Jan. 12 earthquake. But sometimes they turn to a plastic barrel that is wending its way toward her, from her cousin's two-family house in Queens to a ship moving down the Atlantic coast to -- someday soon -- a truck rumbling up the road to her brother's cinderblock bungalow, where she moved when the cataclysm wrecked her home.
Inside the barrel are dresses from Marshalls, soap from the Far Rockaway flea market, evaporated milk from the grocery store. Since the earthquake, her cousin, Gislaine Vieux, who left Haiti 41 years ago, has made weekly expeditions to her favorite shops looking for bargains. She piles them carefully in a barrel until it is full. She has sent two so far.
These simple offerings cannot salve the pain that Ms. Grandoit, 70, feels for the family crushed in the ruins of her cozy, humming house -- among them her husband, three of her five children and a grandson. 
But as the barrel bobs toward her, it carries something like a message in a bottle from ''lot bo dlo,'' Creole for ''the other side of the water'': the relatives who slipped away over the years into a mysterious new life abroad have not forgotten her. No government official or relief worker has visited her. No one has even counted her dead. Yet money and moral support are flowing south from New York, and however dwarfed they might seem by her catastrophe, they are the only outside help she has.
Fifteen hundred miles north on Hollis Court Boulevard, lined with the pointy roofs and small square lawns typical of middle-class Queens, Ms. Vieux can no longer imagine moving back to Haiti -- ''No electricity, no security; I'm not used to those things anymore,'' she confesses -- and the earthquake has made the homeland seem even farther away. Yet it has also strengthened the tendrils of love and compassion, of guilt and generosity and dependence that tie her to family back home.
Stories like these reveal how Haiti's disaster is remaking relationships already complicated by the strains of immigration and exile. Haiti's chaotic history has spawned a diaspora that sends more than $1 billion in annual remittances from places like the United States, Canada and France. Now the earthquake is magnifying the connections -- and the gaps -- between those who left and those who stayed behind.
At Ms. Vieux's Roman Catholic church in Queens, which she and her husband helped reinvent from an emptying parish of European immigrants into a hub of New York's Haitian community, the quake stunned the successful and the struggling alike. When the church, SS. Joachim and Anne, began registering missing friends and relatives in a notebook, it filled quickly with hundreds of names.
Six months later, parishioners are still taking in relatives from Haiti, joining relief missions and wiring enough money south to cause a worrying drop at the collection basket. Their compassion seems tinged with a new homesickness, a sense of inadequacy, even a strange envy -- a longing to be part of a monumental experience in Haiti's history.
Here in Haiti, their relatives wait for help from a comparatively comfortable world some can only vaguely imagine, from loved ones toward whom they feel by turns admiring and abandoned.
And even for the most solicitous Haitians in the United States, the disaster remains somewhat abstract. Few Queens parishioners have returned and witnessed the texture of post-quake life for their relatives, details like these:
Gertrude Beni's feverish 14-year-old daughter lies mosquito-bitten on the concrete foundation of their fallen house, pressing her cheek to the only surface that is slightly cooler than the air.
Gisele Prinvil's 1-year-old clambers over rubble in an immaculate white dress.
Ms. Grandoit's grandson Boris, 11, sits in a room stuffed with mattresses rescued from the house that entombed his mother and little brother. He is doing his homework.
Gifts Across the Water
Ms. Grandoit's house was a gift from ''lot bo dlo.'' Her brother Fritz did well enough in Brooklyn -- doing what, she never knew -- to fulfill a staple immigrant dream: In 1988, he bought his sister a house that transformed her life.
It stood off Rue Bourgelat, in a working-class section of Port-au-Prince where pigs bathe in sewage canals. It had two stories, balconies, room for 15 people. It was a hive of warmth and activity; Ms. Grandoit always had extra food for visitors.
The earthquake destroyed it in 25 seconds. Those who were upstairs lived. Those who were downstairs died -- except one. A grandson lay flat in a bathtub until relatives dug him out.
Ms. Grandoit, tiny and elegant, now lives with her brother Roland. He never asked the survivors to move in; they just knew they were invited. Clattering traffic throws dust into the yard, the well water teems with insects, electricity is intermittent. But Ms. Grandoit spends afternoons in the spangled shade of a grape arbor -- luxury compared to the stifling tents of many survivors.
She has no words to describe her loss. She refuses to visit the remains of the house, which like most of the city's ruins lie untouched. ''It's over,'' she says.
But she lists the dead as if saying a rosary. She digs their photographs out of a worn leather pocketbook: Her grandson Kevens, 5, and her daughter Eunide, 44, both in Santa Claus hats. Her daughter Judith, 41, and son Franklin, 36 -- both accountants, the family's only breadwinners -- grinning last year in New York on a visit to Ms. Vieux, her cousin.
In Queens, Ms. Vieux's house has silk flowers and matching towels in the bathroom, framed Bible verses and gleaming china cabinets along the walls. She still remembers the date she left Haiti: Aug. 9, 1969. Searingly homesick, she forced herself to stay; her family back home needed her income. She worked 30 years in a hospital operating room, restocking the instruments the surgeons needed.
Ms. Vieux, 66, used to visit Haiti often, but the trips tapered off as the country grew more chaotic. When disaster struck, she was planning her first visit in a decade.
In the earthquake, her sister lost a leg. But the one who needed her most was Ms. Grandoit. Ms. Vieux wired money. It did not feel like enough; she wanted to send gifts she had touched.
Ms. Grandoit, an orphan, had lived as a young woman with Ms. Vieux's parents. She was washing clothes at a neighbor's water tap when a shoemaker, Emilius Jean Vernet, remarked on her beautiful legs. They married in 1965.
Ms. Grandoit's house became ''a center for the family'' that ''projected warmth,'' said her son Patrick Jean Vernet, 39, an unemployed computer technician.
The day of ''the event,'' their shorthand for the quake, they had just finished dinner when Franklin, married three days earlier, came home.
Judith ran downstairs to greet him; Patrick, heading upstairs to iron clothes, heard them laugh. He grabbed his mother as ceilings and walls fell. They called into what remained of the ground floor. Silence.
With neighbors, Ms. Grandoit's sons-in-law tunneled under the wobbly wreckage. They found nine bodies. They loaded them into a pickup truck and sedan and drove to a relative's land. They sprinkled holy water on the corpses, buried them, and scratched their names in the hard, sand-colored earth.
These days, Jean Vilvet Charles, a son-in-law who buried his wife and a son, reminds his surviving son, Boris, that ''life is not over.''
''It's a blessing if we're still alive, if we can keep going,'' he said.
In Queens, Ms. Vieux peered at new photos from Port-au-Prince. They allayed some worries -- Ms. Grandoit looked healthy -- but inspired others. Mr. Charles had lost weight, and Ms. Vieux wondered, ''Do they have enough to eat every day?''
Jobless in Haiti, and Queens
''You see, I'm living in a place like this,'' Venante Elize Vertus said, apologizing. ''I cannot say, please, sit down, have a cup of coffee.''
''This'' is a chain of makeshift shelters -- a canvas tent and huts made of scrap wood, metal, tarps and tree branches, where she lives with her daughter, Gertrude Beni, and Ms. Beni's seven children in the muddy, buggy lot where their house once stood. Waiting for a lifeline that may never come, they imagine living this way forever.
They live in La Colline, 90 minutes west of Port-au-Prince. The main road is flanked by concrete houses that sank when landfill turned to jelly. A dirt trail leads suddenly to leafy countryside. Children bathe in a cloudy runoff canal. Men here say they have never had jobs besides cultivating small patches of land, and they imagine working for a boss and a salary.
Ms. Beni has no job either, but she is always busy. One evening, she loaded handfuls of popcorn into small bags, to sell for pennies. She has gathered a chest-high pile of stones for rebuilding when she has the money -- whenever that is.
''We depend on one person and this person is not working,'' she said.
She meant her brother Jean.
Eleven years ago, he went on tour to New York with Septan Trional, an old-school jazz band famous enough to be painted on one of Port-au-Prince's colorful buses. When the band left, he stayed. He sings in the choir at the church in Queens, SS. Joachim and Anne.
But Jean Beni's version of the immigrant narrative has yet to find a happy ending -- and proves that a relative overseas is no surefire solution.
Because he stayed illegally, he was unable to find reliable work. He gets the occasional paid gig, but sings mainly ''for God,'' as his mother puts it.
''We wish one day that God is going to change his life, and change our life,'' Ms. Vertus said.
Mr. Beni, 45, has not seen his family since he left. He knows they are alive and living outdoors. That is about all he knows.
His mother keeps the details from him. She is afraid of putting pressure on him.
''I couldn't tell him a lot of things'' -- for instance, sometimes their only food is fruit they find on trees -- ''because I know he's not working,'' she said.
So she never calls.
His sister is less sympathetic. ''If I was in Jean Beni's place I would have sent for my mom a long time ago,'' Ms. Beni said.
If she could go abroad, she says, she would do anything -- baby-sitting, cleaning. She shows where she hurt her wrists washing other people's clothes.
Ms. Vertus dug out pictures of her son looking like a disco star in an open shirt, crooning into a microphone. ''Sometimes I just take them out and take a look,'' she said out of her daughter's earshot.
Singing at a New York wedding three years ago, Mr. Beni met a Haitian-American medical technician. They married. He got a green card last December, the first step toward getting visas for his mother and someday his sister. But first, he needs a job. He recently got a license to work as a lab technician, but he has not told his mother. He is afraid of letting her down.
Discouraging a Dream
Gisele Prinvil is an entrepreneurial sort. That may be why her aunt once urged her to move to Brooklyn, and why she imagined doing it, or joining a cousin, the Rev. Jean Moise Delva, one of the priests at the church in Queens.
Before the earthquake, she was a fritay seller, cooking griot (fried spiced pork) over charcoal on the street. Each Saturday, she bought a pig and butchered it. Each week she made enough for basic needs and the next pig. She thought of saving for a plane ticket and a visa.
But as she searched for her four children after the quake, someone made off with her capital -- meat, money, pots, the tin stand that sheltered it all from the sun.
Her misfortune, relatively small by earthquake standards, may well prevent her from becoming the newest arrival to her cousin's Queens parish. Convinced the disaster has made immigration harder, Father Delva -- who grew up with her but moved to New York as a teenager -- finds himself discouraging that dream.
Ms. Prinvil's husband gets occasional work dismantling rubble. With her father, sister and children, they share a homemade shack with three small beds. Some sleep on the dirt; in the rain, it turns to mud.
In her neighborhood in Leogane, two hours west of the capital, many houses collapsed. Neighbors share undamaged bathrooms, cook together, light their way at night with cellphone screens. But the air smells of excrement and trash. Ms. Prinvil's toddler, Chamaelle, constantly has diarrhea.
Ms. Prinvil, 34, has organized neighbors to clear rubble, and has lobbied aid groups for water and was promised a better shelter, but is frustrated by delays.
So in June she phoned the priest she calls Jean-Jean with some modest requests: money for sheet metal to replace her shack's leaky tarp. And less than $200 to restart her business.
Father Delva, 35, promised to send cash. From the day of the earthquake, he has felt compelled to witness it, and to take action.
In May, he visited and saw the sights he had craved and dreaded: his cousin in a shack, his childhood haunts in ruins. He will spend August on a diocesan mission to Haiti, ministering to people in tent cities.
But he sighs when his cousin talks of emigration. ''It's not easy nowadays,'' he said.
He has seen the consequences in the parish. He counsels people who arrived after the earthquake on emergency visas but now struggle because they cannot work. Getting tourist visas is harder since the quake, and if she got one, what then -- stay illegally?
''It's better to stay back home and take care of her kids,'' he said. ''And whatever we can do we will send to her.''
Meanwhile, Ms. Prinvil has no mental picture of her cousin's world. Asked what she sees herself doing in New York, she admits with a shy smile that she has no idea; maybe set up a fritay grill on the street.
''The first thing is to know about the life there,'' she said. ''Maybe I can't do fritay.''
A Parish Tested: Articles in this series are examining the reverberations of the Haiti earthquake on a Roman Catholic congregation in Queens.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOPE FROM ABROAD: Alourds Grandoit, 70, lost 10 relatives, including her husband, in the Jan. 12 quake in Haiti. No relief worker has visited her, but money and moral support have flowed from New York.
A BROTHER'S GENEROSITY: Ms. Grandoit with, from left, Roland Grandoit, 73, a brother who took in surviving members of their family
Frankie Jean-Baptiste, 25
Jean Vilvet Charles, 50
Patrick Jean Vernet, 39
Donald Phanord, 9
Boris Charles, 11
and Darwing Phanord, 13. At far left, the ruins of Ms. Grandoit's house in Port-au-Prince. (A13)
LOST IN THE QUAKE: In her pocketbook, Alourds Grandoit keeps photos of relatives who died in the rubble, including her daughter Eunide and grandson Kevens, 5, in Santa Claus hats
and her son Franklin and daughter Judith, both accountants.
REMEMBRANCE: Jean Vilvet Charles, Ms. Grandoit's son-in-law, at the graves of his wife, Judith, and son Kevens. He reminds his surviving son, Boris, that ''life is not over.'' He says, ''It's a blessing if we're still alive, if we can keep going.''
 MAKESHIFT HOME: Gertrude Beni and her mother, Venante Elize Vertus, live with Ms. Beni's seven children in a canvas tent in a muddy lot where their house once stood in La Colline, 90 minutes west of Port-au-Prince. Their lifeline in Queens is a brother, Jean Beni, but he is unemployed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); IMMIGRATION (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (78%); FRANCE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010

 
