

1 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Where China Outpaces America

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
Thomas L. Friedman is off today.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI
Here's a fact about China that you may not know: people in Shanghai today have a longer life expectancy than Americans.
A child in Shanghai is expected to live 82 years. In the United States, the figure is not quite 79 years. (For all of China, including rural areas, life expectancy is lower, 73 years -- but rising steadily.)
The harsh repression in China these days rightly garners headlines, but health data reflect another side of a nation that could scarcely be more complex and contradictory. 
For those who remember Shanghai a quarter-century ago as a dilapidated city where farmers would collect night soil from families without sanitation, it's extraordinary that among permanent residents of Shanghai, infant mortality is 2.9 deaths per 1,000 births. That is well below the rate of 5.3 in New York City. (Include migrant laborers living in Shanghai, perhaps a fairer comparison, and the rate climbs to a bit higher than in New York.)
That Shanghai child enjoys a world-class education in a public school -- the best school system of any in a recent 65-nation survey, although it's also true that Chinese schools have their own problems such as widespread cheating and stifling of creativity.
Since 1990, the country has reduced infant mortality rates by 54 percent, according to Unicef statistics. On a Chinese scale, that represents more than 360,000 children's lives saved each year.
That's what makes China such a fascinating and contradictory place. Other countries, from Egypt to North Korea, oppress and impoverish their people. But the Chinese Communist Party in the reform era has been oppressive politically -- even worse lately, with the harshest clampdown in two decades -- while hugely enriching its people.
President Hu Jintao and other top Communist Party officials are autocrats, yes, but unusually competent autocrats. Polls show Chinese citizens pretty happy with their lot by international standards, although there's some doubt about how meaningful these polls are. My hunch is that if the Communist Party did hold free elections, it would win by a landslide -- especially in rural areas.
A Harvard scholar once told me that today's China is best approached with ambivalence, and that seems about right to me. The crackdown that I deplored in my last column is real, and so is the stunning level of official corruption. But the same government that throws small numbers of dissidents in prison also provides new opportunities to hundreds of millions.
What's the trade-off between imprisoning a brilliant Nobel Peace Prize-winning dissident like Liu Xiaobo and saving hundreds of thousands of babies' lives each year through improved health care? There isn't one. The two sides of China are incommensurate. They are the yin and yang of 21st-century China.
The United States tends to perceive China through a Manichaean lens -- either the economic juggernaut overcoming poverty and investing brilliantly in alternative energy, or the Darth Vader that tortures dissidents. In fact, both are equally real. Likewise, China abuses trade pacts, but it has also been appreciating its currency (mostly through inflation) much more than Americans give it credit for.
We face a period in which Chinese-American tensions are likely to rise, aggravated by the American presidential election and the Chinese leadership transition in 2012, as well as by the crackdown that was the topic of my last column.
When I lived in China in the 1980s and '90s, there was always an awkward economic imbalance between me and my Chinese friends. I had a car, and they had bicycles. I paid for our meals together because I was so much better off.
Now there's a new imbalance: Some of those same people ride around in chauffeured limousines while I get around in taxis. They take me to fancy restaurants whose prices give me headaches.
One Chinese friend took me to a home with private indoor basketball court and personal movie theater. It was a tribute to the stunning improvement in the country's standard of living. But it also speaks to growing income gaps at a time when, by official figures, 320 million rural Chinese do not even have access to safe water.
Moreover, some of the economic boom appears attributable to a bubble, particularly in real estate. And some of the grand fortunes are linked to corruption by government officials. One friend, the son of a Politburo member, once told me that he was being paid hundreds of thousands of dollars a year by a Chinese company just to be on its board. That way, the company could persuade local governments to give it land at reduced prices.
What are we to make of such a country?
That it contains multitudes. And that at this time of rising China-United States tensions, any simplistic black or white view of it may well be right -- but also incomplete and misleading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INFANT MORTALITY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); POLITICS (86%); FAMILY (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); NOBEL PRIZES (65%); MIGRANT WORKERS (53%); CORRUPTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (54%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) EAST CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EGYPT (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



2 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: The 30-Minute Interview/Evan Stein

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Stein, 39, is the president of the J.D. Carlisle Development Corporation, which was started by his grandfather, Harry Feldman, and the M.D. Carlisle Construction Corporation.
J.D. Carlisle manages about 600,000 square feet of commercial space and nearly 2,000 apartments citywide. Its developments include Morton Square, the Cielo, Gramercy Green, and the Beatrice.
Q Are you the de facto C.E.O.? 
A Yes, absolutely. There's no C.E.O. The chairman is my partner, Jules Demchick. Our chairman is responsible for assemblage of the property, financing, and usually the initial plan. Once the acquisition is done, he moves on to the marketing and we move to the development. M.D. Carlisle Construction is the vehicle that physically builds the projects. With buildings like the Beatrice you almost need to know the end of the movie before you begin.
Q Will the Beatrice, your newest and biggest project, have a happy ending?
A I hope so. I put my grandmother's name on the building.
Q Was this your most difficult development?
A It's by far the most expensive, and this was the most complicated. We have several uses in this building, so that takes a tremendous amount of management to understand how all the pieces work together: how the restaurant is working with our hotel, how the residential building complements the hotel. And we have a garage.
We're certainly not in the black yet, because the building is in its infancy, but from an economic view we're pleased with the results.
Q What is the occupancy?
A We are 99 percent. Of 300 rental apartments, we have left four penthouses that we are just allowing for occupancy May 1. All the penthouses start at $20,000, up to $23,500 monthly. We're already getting a lot of activity on them. And the hotel's doing well; it's exceeding our expectations.
Q Why rentals and not condos?
A We cut our teeth on rentals. In the '60s and the '70s, we built probably 60- or 70-plus rental projects. The rentals are scattered all over Manhattan. Our recent history was condominiums -- we had three or four projects that were a function of the times.
It's hard to put your heart and soul into something where at the end of the day you don't have a tangible asset anymore.
Q Would you ever consider converting the Beatrice, if, say the market soared again?
A I hope not. I'd be lying to you if I told you I haven't been asked that before. We have several rental buildings that have gone through four or five real estate booms, but we like rentals.
Q What's your assessment of the New York market now?
A In the long-term perspective we're very bullish, but you're going to have short-term challenges -- whether they be economic, political or availability. There are still tremendous opportunities here, and we're seeking them out.
Q Do you have any other projects in the works?
A We do have three or four projects that we're excited about. Unfortunately, we can't talk about them because we're under confidentiality agreements.
They're going to be some rental, some condo; three are ground-up and one is a gut renovation. We're looking at a couple in the outer boroughs at this point in time, and certainly in Manhattan.
Q So why doesn't J.D. Carlisle have a Web site?
A We get asked that a lot. We're low-profile people; we don't usually have to advertise who we are.
Q You knew at an early age that you wanted to be involved in real estate, didn't you?
A Yes, because my hero was my grandfather, who founded this business -- my maternal grandfather, Beatrice's husband.
He has been my hero since the minute I could understand who he was, and I would have done anything to be with him -- to be him. When I was graduating from college, he asked if I would consider coming to work with him. I jumped at the opportunity and 17, 18 years later, here's where we are. He's since retired.
Q What was your first job there?
A I went to school for accounting so I started off computerizing their accounting systems, and I got bored very, very quickly. I made the request for an assistant superintendent's job. I went to work with a hard hat climbing into the demolition. Just being on a construction site every single day helps me to understand how things wind up working, all the nuances that you need to understand.
Q Do you live in any of your buildings?
A I live in Morton Square. One of the advantages of developing is you get a good price.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESTAURANTS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



3 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Assimilation Nation

BYLINE: By RON CARLSON. 
Ron Carlson's most recent book is a novel, ''The Signal.''

 BODY:
MY NEW AMERICAN LIFE
By Francine Prose
306 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $25.99.
The great grinning tradition of American satire has always been healthy because this confounding country provides an abundance of jaw-dropping moments every day, moments that don't need rewriting or amplification to reveal their comic craziness. All you need is the ability to see them and then present them plainly, as if you were born yesterday, with nothing but big eyes and a sense of right and wrong. O.K., maybe born the day before yesterday and in Albania, but still with that sense of right and wrong. Francine Prose has just such a sharp protagonist in her wry novel, ''My New American Life,'' a book that brims with smart surprises. 
The person with the new American life is Lula, a 26-year-old waitress from Tirana, Albania, who has been living in a shared apartment in New York and is deeply worried about being deported. Then again, as she notes, everyone in George Bush and Dick Cheney's America seems to be worried: ''It was just a matter of time before someone on Fox News got the bright idea of sending back the Pilgrims.'' Lula is alert and full of longing and beautifully out of place. Like many newcomers, she's more aware of American vibes and American history than the family that eventually takes her in. Lula's droll observations, as she navigates between her new life and her Albanian friends, give Prose's novel the verve we've seen in her previous /fiction.
The comparison between Lula's two countries provides a study in the new civics. ''Paranoia,'' she determines, ''was English for Balkan common sense.'' And in the Balkans, there is no phrase for a ''win-win situation.'' In America, she notes, although a congressman apologizes for an affair and the president tells the press that the United States doesn't torture, ''it was interesting how everyone lied and only the adulterers got caught.'' When her new boss calls her ''our little Albanian pessimist,'' he's quickly corrected: she's simply a ''realist.''
The novel traces the period that Lula stays with that new boss, whom she calls Mr. Stanley, and his son, Zeke. Glad to let go of her life in the city, she answers an ad on Craigslist and becomes a sort of nanny for Zeke, a senior in high school who lives with his father in suburban New Jersey. Mr. Stanley left teaching to work in the financial district, and he's trying to do right by his son after his wife's dramatic departure. Lula's job is to keep Zeke company and keep food in the big empty house.
In a charming turn, Lula spends some of her time writing stories, retelling Albanian folk tales that she adjusts and passes off as true and that Mr. Stanley and the immigration lawyer he finds for her both applaud. She considers writing a memoir about her youth -- for a minute -- but opts instead for romanticized fiction. After all, Lula in Baywater thinks of herself as a princess in a tower. For a while.
She's a perfect observer of American life in the opening decade of the 21st century. Of course, a young woman who ''spent the formative years of her childhood under the paranoid leadership of a psychotic dictator, a person who has seen economic collapse and rioting and chaotic violence and everywhere gangsters in control'' provides a perfect lens for seeing this country.
Watching the evening news on television, Lula feels sorry for the president, ''so like a dim little boy who'd told a lie that had set off a war.'' When he tries to warn Americans about bird flu, he has trouble with the word ''avian'' -- ''His forehead stitched each time he said it and his eyelids fluttered, as if he'd been instructed to think of birds as a memory prompt.'' The vice president gets a note or two as well, but Lula's best when she's surprised by the broader panorama of American life. One night in a restaurant she sees the patrons playing musical chairs, a game she considers remarkably cruel. After all, in Albania there were never enough chairs to go around.
Setting so much of modern America in high relief, mordant and comic, light and dark, Lula reminds us more of Fran Lebowitz than Alexis de Tocqueville. Her friend Dunia is wry and knowing, much more cynical, a foil to Lula's relatively placid domesticity. Once a waitress with Lula in New York, Dunia has now achieved the American dream: she is married to a plastic surgeon and has credit cards. ''It's not like Communism,'' she remarks. ''The shopping is better. The sex is worse.''
Lula's own romantic interest is Alvo, a shady, charismatic young Albanian who shows up one day in the suburbs with two other men, asking a strange favor that swims under the rest of the story. Alvo, who may be a criminal or a construction worker -- or both -- is the absolute opposite of Mr. Stanley. On their one big date, on Christmas Eve, Lula dances with him and rationalizes their relationship in a way Woody Allen would recognize: ''How handsome he was and how glad she was to be here with him. Why should she care about a gun, some moody weirdness, a certain lack of clarity about what he did for a living? And O.K., some low-level stalking.''
Lula's dreams and pragmatism form a heady, bittersweet comic mix. But ''My New American Life'' isn't essentially a book about romantic love, about some prince coming to the tower, even though gender politics ring on every page. (''Flirtation and charm worked everywhere, second only to money.'') The essence of the novel isn't Lula's American rite of passage; it's the makeshift family she forms with her employer and his son. Mr. Stanley, it turns out, is a tender guy who misses his vanished wife and forgives her negligence. And Zeke is that rarity: a good boy. He's kind to Lula and interested in her stories.
When the three of them go on a college tour, Zeke spends a night participating in the ''big sibling'' program. Almost. After the night takes an astonishing and sadistic turn, Lula longs to comfort the justifiably shaken boy. At the college, ''she'd been mistaken for his sister and his mother, and tonight she felt like both, wishing she could protect him from so much she couldn't control.'' Maybe, she reflects, ''that was what family meant: wanting, and not being able, to help the people you love.''
Lula is good company, somebody most readers would welcome into their families. Throughout this witty novel, she demonstrates an affecting hunger for an American life, even if she often finds that life plenty weird. Watching a television cooking show just before Thanksgiving, Lula hears a phrase she can't get over: ''a successful turkey.'' Wanting to be the perfect hostess, she wonders: ''How successful could it be, dead and eaten?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE BERGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); DEPORTATION (53%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (68%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); CRAIGSLIST INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%); DICK CHENEY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TIRANA, ALBANIA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ALBANIA (93%)

TITLE: My New American Life (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



4 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; HANDLEBARS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Civilized and Road-Legal But Ready to Play Dirty

BYLINE: By DEXTER FORD

 BODY:
ANZA, Calif.
JUDGING by the vehicles seen on our highways -- from towering war-zone S.U.V.'s to behemoth all-purpose adventure motorcycles -- a visitor might think Americans are obsessed with the idea of going anywhere, no regard given to whether or not the roads are paved.
Or, perhaps, we want to look as if we could -- assuming that next weekend all the children's soccer games are suddenly canceled. 
For image-driven riders, the Husqvarna TE 449 delivers that go-anywhere look. But it's no poseur. Equipped with all the gear needed to qualify for license plates, this new-for-2011 model keeps going long after machines of lesser capabilities have turned back.
In my time with the Husky around various types of Southern California terrain, I found that if there was a dirt road, trail, desert wash or goat path leading to my destination, this motorcycle would get me there.
Street-legal in all 50 states, the new Husky is just as capable of traversing deteriorating urban pavement as it is racing across the Mojave. The versatility goes some ways toward justifying its $9,174 price, including shipping and dealer setup, bringing practicality to what might otherwise be seen as a weekend playtoy. Need to jump a curb, dodge a pothole or thump over an abandoned car? No problem.
The TE 449 carries the name of a 17th century Swedish maker of muskets and, later, motorcycles; Husqvarna built its first motorbike in 1903. Though far from a household name in the United States, the company has a storied racing heritage in the deserts (including wins in the Baja 1000) and as the winner of motocross championships. Steve McQueen rode one in the motorcycle racing documentary, ''On Any Sunday.''
But Husqvarnas have been assembled in Varese, Italy, since the brand was bought by an Italian cycle maker, Cagiva, which subsequently sold it to BMW Motorrad of Germany. Which has outsourced the engine production to Kymco of Korea. Which actually produces the engines in Taiwan.
Hey, it's a small world after all.
The TE 449 and its slightly more powerful sibling, the TE511, are Husqvarna's latest entries in the dual-sport category -- lightweight race-capable dirt bikes fitted with the emissions equipment, quiet mufflers, lighting, turn signals, horn and road-certified tires and brakes that keep motor vehicle regulators happy.
Having a license plate on a dirt-capable bike offers a rider access to unpaved (but public) roads, and getting from one off-road trail to the next can be accomplished without having to load the bike into a pickup or trailer. The TE can serve as a go-anywhere, do-anything commuter, an urban errand runner -- or even a weekend canyon bike if the tires are swapped for rubber with a street-oriented tread pattern.
Lightweight single-cylinder engines also return excellent fuel economy -- perhaps contributing to sales of dual-purpose machines improving by nearly 25 percent in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the period a year earlier.
The 2011 TE 449 is a departure for Husqvarna in a number of ways, and an even greater detour, it would seem, for BMW. While better known for its refined long-distance machines, BMW has long sold a line of heavier dual-purpose bikes, from the single-cylinder G 650 GS to the huge twin-cylinder R 1200 GS Adventure. But these machines are designed more for pavement and smoother dirt roads than the light and agile TE 449 and TE 511.
The TE 449 uses what BMW calls its Coaxial Traction System, which means that the pivot for the rear suspension swingarm turns on the same axis as the front chain sprocket; the drive chain's tension remains constant as the rear wheel arcs through its 11.8 inches of travel. And a long swingarm is designed to enhance traction, Husky says.
The TE uses a lightweight electric starting system. Nobody seems to miss kick-starting once they've pushed the magic button.
As a street bike, the Husky is, well -- a dirt bike. It is tiptoe tall, its suspension is soft, its seat is narrow and rock hard, its handlebars buzz and its shift lever is solid aluminum -- it would tear up your wingtips in about a block. Its exhaust pipe will melt riding pants, scald skin and scorch worsted wool. So comfort and fashion are not its strong suits.
But in the things that matter -- riding position, throttle response, braking, turning -- it's a hoot. The same characteristics that make for a competent dirt bike -- an upright seating position and handlebars that provide the leverage to recover from a slide on loose surfaces -- also help to produce a good street bike, at least at the speeds typical on public roads. The TE 449 validates this particular ticket with an enthusiastic stamp of approval.
Out in the Mojave desert, or in the boulder-strewn hills northeast of San Diego, the Husky makes even more sense. The fuel-injected engine pulls like an electric winch from idle to the shift point with no surprises or flat spots. The rear wheel, as advertised, claws into the dirt and drives off with minimal wheelspin or drama.
The single-cylinder 449 cc liquid-cooled twin-cam engine, which can seem overmatched while buzzing along at 80 miles an hour on the Harbor Freeway, is powerful enough to toss you into trouble out here. Closed-course racers can get more power by substituting a louder muffler and remapping the fuel injection.
The combination of relatively light weight and ample, predictable power add up to a machine that will go just as fast as the rider can, with the emphasis on maneuverability over high-speed stability. The multiadjustable KYB suspension -- the rear using a new linkage system -- will need testing and tuning to suit a rider's weight, riding style and terrain preferences, but the parts are all there, waiting to be dialed in.
The only serious problem is the exhaust tubing, which lacks the heat shield Husqvarna adds to the more street-oriented SMR supermoto versions. My favorite nylon riding pants are now my ex-pants, patched together with duct tape where they melted.
Poseurs will have a problem, I suspect, but off-road enthusiasts will probably be fine with that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VERSATILE: Husqvarna's TE 449 is street legal, but is no slouch in the desert. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEXTER FORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (77%); CHILDREN (76%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (71%); SOCCER (71%); EXTREME SPORTS (71%)

COMPANY: HUSQVARNA AB (84%)

TICKER: HUSQ.B (STO) (84%); HUSQ.A (STO) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3546 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOLS (84%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (77%); TAIWAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



5 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: How Happy Are You? In a Boston Suburb, It's a Census Question

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY; Ted Siefer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SOMERVILLE, Mass. -- When they filled out the city's census forms this spring, the people of Somerville got a new question. On a scale of 1 to 10, they were asked, ''How happy do you feel right now?''
Officials here want this Boston suburb to become the first city in the United States to systematically track people's happiness. Like leaders in Britain, France and a few other places, they want to move beyond the traditional measures of success -- economic growth -- to promote policies that produce more than just material well-being.
Monitoring the citizenry's happiness has been advocated by prominent psychologists and economists, but not without debate over how to do it and whether happiness is even the right thing for politicians to be promoting. The pursuit of happiness may be an inalienable right, but that is not the same as reporting blissful feelings on a questionnaire.
''Does it matter if I am a little manic right now?'' one Somerville resident wrote on the census form. (Apparently not: he gave himself a ''10'' for happiness.) 
So far, more than 7,500 people have mailed back the survey, some of them clearly not limiting their answers to municipal concerns. In response to the question ''How satisfied are you with your life in general?'' one man gave himself only a 6, explaining, ''I would like to be three inches taller and speak Quechua fluently.''
In some ways, Somerville is a perfect test tube for such an experiment. Sandwiched between Harvard and Tufts Universities, the city is a blue-collar bastion with a growing population of young professionals and academics. Somewhat less lovely than its upscale neighbor, Cambridge (but with lower rents), Somerville used to be renowned for crime and nicknamed ''Slummerville,'' but its reputation and priorities have been changing as it gentrifies.
''We need to change our mind-set in how we serve people,'' said Mayor Joseph A. Curtatone, who has been hailed at the White House for the city's pioneering program against obesity. He called the happiness survey ''a no-brainer'' that he approved as soon as it was suggested.
''Cities keep careful track of their finances, but a bond rating doesn't tell us how people feel or why they want to raise a family here or relocate a business here,'' Mr. Curtatone said.
To draw up its questions, Somerville turned to a neighbor, Daniel Gilbert, a Harvard psychology professor who wrote the 2006 best seller ''Stumbling on Happiness.'' Dr. Gilbert, who donated his time, is also helping the city do a more detailed telephone survey, using a randomized sample of Somerville's 76,000 residents.
''Social policies are always meant to promote things that promote happiness, so how could it be a bad idea to measure directly the very thing you are trying to maximize?'' Dr. Gilbert said. ''Should we build more parks or highways? Should workers get longer coffee breaks or more vacation days? We don't have to guess about the answers to these questions.''
Somerville officials say they hope to see how parks and bike paths affect the happiness of people living nearby, or how people's feelings change when mass transit services are improved.
The survey that was mailed with the census asks people to rate the nuts-and-bolts aspects of their communities -- the police, the schools, the availability of affordable housing -- as well as the ''beauty or physical setting'' of Somerville, an industrial town full of triple-decker houses. The city wants to know: ''Taking everything into account, how satisfied are you with Somerville as a place to live?''
Then there are the really touchy-feely questions, seemingly plucked from a personality test. ''When making decisions, are you more likely to seek advice or decide for yourself?'' the survey asks. ''In general, how similar are you to other people you know?''
Vanessa Lagerman, 28, who has lived in Somerville for six years, is one resident who appreciates the city's efforts. ''Since I've been here, I've noticed a lot of things the city has been doing, like installing bike lanes,'' said Ms. Lagerman, a graduate student at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. As for the survey, ''I think it's a good thing, because policies can be changed to make people happier.''
Other residents also said they felt flattered by the city's attention.
''I'm glad they're trying to use 21st-century tools to get a feel for what people want,'' said Conor Brennan, the owner of P J Ryan's, a pub in Teele Square. ''Of course, any survey like this is going to depend on the mood of the person at that moment. If they filled it out in the middle of this last winter, that's probably going to lower the score.''
Though Mr. Brennan did not recall receiving the form or filling it out, he did offer an off-the-cuff numeric assessment of his own happiness and that of his family: ''8+.''
Somerville officials hope to create a well-being index that they can track over time and perhaps eventually compare with results in neighboring towns (assuming the other towns follow their example). But they acknowledge that figuring out how their policies affect that index will be a challenge.
''We want to see what the baseline data tell us and then expand,'' said Tara Acker, director of SomerStat, the city's program to analyze data. ''Is there a correlation between happiness and open space or green space? If we see low levels of satisfaction correlated to low levels of income, perhaps we want more programs aimed at low-income people.''
For example, city officials said, the arrival of a new and long-sought extension of the Green Line light rail system to Somerville could be a natural experiment to let them track whether happiness goes up among people who live nearby.
In Britain, a similar happiness survey is being undertaken this spring at the behest of the prime minister, David Cameron, whose administration proposed such drastic spending cuts that violent protests broke out in the street. France, which has had its own riots, has also been analyzing citizens' happiness.
Fortunately, there has been no such turbulence in Somerville, which prides itself as being the place where Marshmallow Fluff was invented.
''The data may show nothing of interest or they may hold big surprises -- you just can't tell until you collect them,'' said Dr. Gilbert, the Harvard professor. ''But given that it costs nothing to add some questions about happiness to a census that is already going out, why wouldn't you?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Residents of Somerville, Mass., like Jamie Thatcher and Maddie Carlson, are being asked to rate their happiness on a 1-to-10 scale.
 Surveys are asking residents like Lee Simonds about their city, as well as questions that seem plucked from a personality test. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); MAYORS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); BONDS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



6 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: What's the Prognosis for Family Doctors?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Family Physician Can't Give Away Solo Practice'' (''Doctors Inc.'' series, front page, April 23):
In evaluating the replacement of family practitioners by rotating medical teams, the conclusion is that ''care often improves, but a relationship is lost.'' This analysis highlights a core dilemma confronting modern medical practice.
Physicians' personal connections with their patients should be considered an integral and invaluable part of complete medical treatment, not a separate and expendable entity. To say that care can improve while the physician-patient connection is reduced is a sad and unfortunate contradiction. 
The loss of this aspect of care diminishes the relationship for both the patient and the doctor, and jeopardizes not only the future of medical care in this country, but our very humanity.
DENNIS B. APPLETON Madison, Wis., April 24, 2011
To the Editor:
Although a decreasing percentage of family physicians are in small and solo practices, the model is not extinct, nor are those physicians practicing inferior medicine. Many of my colleagues in California and across the country provide outstanding care in smaller practices.
Quality isn't the problem; it's the lopsided payment system that overpays subspecialists while undervaluing primary care physicians who keep people as well as possible through preventive medicine and expert treatment of chronic diseases. The inequitable payment system explains why primary care physicians are closing their doors and most medical students don't choose this specialty.
At last count, more than 60 percent of the nation's 956 million annual office visits were made to primary care physicians, and 78 percent of these practices had five or fewer providers. Let's better support these heroes who deliver care under nearly impossible financial conditions by better supporting primary care and America's health.--
JACK CHOU President, California Academy of Family Physicians Baldwin Park, Calif., April 26, 2011
To the Editor:
Your article quotes me as expressing ''outright disdain'' for single practitioners. I have far too much respect for the medical profession, including solo practitioners, to make such offensive and derogatory statements.
Rather, I was trying to convey the thinking of a subset of health policy experts who are encouraging a movement away from solo practice. It was not my intention to support or endorse this position but to call attention to it.
DAVID J. ROTHMAN New York, April 26, 2011
The writer is a professor of social medicine at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons.
To the Editor:
While there is little doubt that the end of the ''Marcus Welby'' era of family medicine is of concern, the acute shortage of family physicians being produced by our nation's medical schools is even more worrisome. At Tufts University School of Medicine, for example, students graduate with a median debt of over $250,000, and despite a highly rated, mandatory six-week clerkship in family medicine, very few students choose this as a career.
Possible solutions being developed revolve mainly around transforming the work life of family doctors and significantly increasing their compensation. The urgency of this problem cannot be overstated.
Consider the consequences of failure: without a personal physician, the 64-year-old woman who called the doctor profiled in your article about heart palpitations and a bad headache would have surely wound up in an emergency room with the same outcome at 10 times the cost.
Multiply that by the enormous influx of baby boomers into our health care system in the next decade and you begin to understand the medical and economic disaster that might await us.
ROBERT L. DICKMAN Newton, Mass., April 24, 2011
The writer, a doctor, is retired chairman of family medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine.
To the Editor:
''Family Physician Can't Give Away Solo Practice'' tells the sad story of a single practitioner who may have to close shop. But there is one hope for the family doctor: technology.
The profiled physician, Dr. Ronald Sroka, is burdened by his apparent reluctance to embrace computerization. But Dr. Sroka can still adapt. I know, because I did. Thanks to my tech-savvy son and openness to new technologies and responsibilities, my overhead dropped from 45 percent to 15 percent. Today, a smartphone and a laptop are as essential as my stethoscope.
In addition to treating patients, I act as a secretary, insurance biller and even custodian. Now I'm privileged to see fewer patients, and provide better care to my patients, while making more money for my family.
I hope physicians like Dr. Sroka consider a similar path before abandoning the deeply satisfying career of a family doctor.--
ROBERT K. NOVICH Larchmont, N.Y., April 24, 2011
To the Editor:
Your article describes Dr. Ronald Sroka's hardships in maintaining his private practice and states that he ''cannot bring himself to join a large group practice or work for a hospital because he opposes their growing use of nurse practitioners for primary care.''
I commend Dr. Sroka's commitment to patient-centered care and service to his community, but his opposition to nurse practitioners seems contradictory. Nurse practitioners are highly trained and are certified to diagnose illness and treat patients. They also focus on health education, disease prevention and patient advocacy. The growing field is centered on the core philosophy of providing individualized care -- a goal shared by Dr. Sroka.
Rather than oppose nurse practitioners, Dr. Sroka should embrace the concept of an interdisciplinary team, which is key to not only achieving financial stability but also keeping comprehensive care a priority.--
LISA GUTIERREZ San Francisco, April 23, 2011
The writer is studying to be a nurse practitioner.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 3, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a letter on Sunday from Dr. Robert L. Dickman about family medicine used his outdated title. He is the retired, not the current, chairman of family medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LUCI GUTIERREZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (94%); FAMILY PRACTICE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); WRITERS (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



7 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3709 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Curve

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
LIKE a lot of other college seniors, Alexandra Leumer got her introduction to the heady and hazardous world of law school scholarships in the form of a letter bearing very good news. The Golden Gate University School of Law in San Francisco had admitted her, the letter stated, and it had awarded her a merit scholarship of $30,000 a year -- enough to cover the full cost of tuition.
To keep her grant, all that Ms. Leumer had to do was maintain a grade-point average of 3.0 or above -- a B or better. If she dipped below that number at the end of either the first or the second year, the letter explained, she would lose her scholarship for good.
''I didn't give it much thought,'' she said. ''I didn't think it would be a challenge.'' 
Her grades and test scores were well above the median at Golden Gate, which then languished in the bottom 25 percent of the U.S. News and World Report annual rankings of law schools.
How hard could a 3.0 be? Really hard, it turned out. That might have been obvious if Golden Gate published a statistic that law schools are loath to share: the number of first-year students who lose their merit scholarships. That figure is not in the literature sent to prospective Golden Gate students or on its Web site.
But it's a number worth knowing. At Golden Gate and other law schools nationwide, students are graded on a curve, which carefully rations the number of A's and B's, as well as C's and D's, awarded each semester. That all but ensures that a certain number of students -- at Golden Gate, it could be in the realm of 70 students this year -- will lose their scholarships and wind up paying full tuition in their second and third years.
Why would a school offer more scholarships than it planned to renew?
The short answer is this: to build the best class that money can buy, and with it, prestige. But these grant programs often succeed at the expense of students, who in many cases figure out the perils of the merit scholarship game far too late.
On the Golden Gate campus recently, a group of first-year students at risk of losing their scholarships were trying to make sense of the system. Most declined to be identified for this article because criticizing the school seemed, at minimum, undiplomatic. But the phrase ''bait and switch'' came up a lot. Several assumed that they were given what is essentially a discount to get them in the door.
''I had a friend once who told me that hunting is a sport,'' said one Golden Gate merit grant winner who anticipated coming up shy of a 3.0 average. ''I said, 'Hunting is not a sport.' He said: 'Sure it's a sport. It's just that the animals don't know they're in a game.' That's what it feels like to be a law student these days. You have no idea you're in a game.''
The school's dean, Drucilla Stender Ramey, declined to say exactly how many students would lose their scholarships this year, suggesting that doing so would violate the privacy rights of the students. She acknowledged, though, that lost merit scholarships have been the source of much campus misery.
''Of course some students are disappointed,'' she said. ''I thought I'd be 5-foot-10, and I'm 4-11. But if you gave students sodium pentothal,'' also known as the truth serum, ''they'd say, 'This is a new and very difficult undertaking, the school will support me as best they can and, hopefully, with hard work and good luck, I'll be able to retain my scholarship.'''
Nobody knows exactly how many law school students nationwide lose scholarships each year -- no oversight body tallies that figure -- but what's clear is that American law schools have quietly gone on a giveaway binge in the last decade. In 2009, the most recent year for which the American Bar Association has data, 38,000 of 145,000 law school students -- more than one in four -- were on merit scholarships. The total tab for all schools in all three years: more than $500 million.
It's a huge sum, particularly when you realize that merit scholarships were exceptionally rare at law schools a mere generation ago. But given that many students lose their grants after the first year, the question is this: What exactly are law schools buying with all of that money?
JERRY ORGAN, a professor at the University of St. Thomas School of Law in Minneapolis, has been one of the few academics to study law school merit scholarships. Six years ago, after a conversation with the school's director of admissions, Professor Organ learned that the number of applicants weighing merit scholarship offers had soared since his days as an applicant in the early 1980s.
''I'm from a middle-class family, and I couldn't ask my parents for tens of thousands of dollars to pay for law school,'' he said. ''So, in the days before the Internet, I read through lots of law school brochures and discovered that just a handful offered merit scholarships.''
The difference between the early '80s and today, he concluded, can be summed up in one name: U.S. News, which began ranking law schools in 1987.
If it sounds absurd that America's legal education system could be whipsawed by, of all things, U.S. News, you have yet to grasp the law school fixation with rankings. Unlike undergraduate colleges, law schools share far more similarities than differences, particularly in the first-year curriculum.
So a lot of schools regard the rankings as their best chance to establish a place in the educational hierarchy, which has implications for the quality of students that apply, the caliber of law firms that come to recruit, and more. Striving for a high U.S. News ranking consumes the bulk of the marketing budget of a vast number of schools.
Which is where scholarships come in.
The algorithm used by U.S. News puts a heavy emphasis on college grade-point averages and Law School Admission Test scores. Together, those two numbers determine about 22 percent of a school's ranking. The bar passage rate, which correlates strongly with undergraduate G.P.A.'s and LSAT scores, is worth an additional two points in the algorithm. In short, students' academic credentials determine close to a quarter of a school's rank -- the largest factor that schools can directly control.
So the point of most merit scholarship programs, Professor Organ said, isn't merely to tempt prospective students who might otherwise not attend, though that clearly is one result.
''What law schools are buying is higher G.P.A.'s and LSATs,'' Professor Organ said. In other words, the schools are buying smarter students to enhance their cachet and rise in the rankings.
Each does it a little differently.
The University of Florida's law school requires students to maintain a 3.2 G.P.A. to keep their scholarships; at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in Manhattan, it's a 2.95. The Chicago-Kent College of Law has a number of grant offerings, one of which sounds like the refueling options for a rental car: students can get a $9,000 annual scholarship guaranteed for all three years, no matter what their G.P.A., or $15,000 a year on the condition that they earn a 3.25 or above. If they get between a 3.0 and 3.25, they keep half the scholarship. Below a 3.0, it's gone.
Some elite schools don't give any merit scholarships, and some give them conditioned only on maintaining good academic standing -- which translates to ''don't flunk out.'' But merit stipulations -- or stips, as they are known by students -- are used by 80 percent of law schools for which information is publicly available, Professor Organ found.
And it's not just institutions in the bottom half of the U.S. News rankings. If your school is ranked 35th, perhaps you're gunning for No. 30 and you can see No. 40 creeping up in the rear-view mirror.
Of course, there is nothing inherently wrong with incentives that ask students to earn strong grades in exchange for a break on tuition. But given that students are often shocked when their scholarships disappear, there are some basic questions about good faith and full disclosure here -- an irony, given that those topics are covered in law school.
Catering to the U.S. News rankings also has ''strange and unintended consequences,'' says Thomas F. Guernsey, dean of the Albany Law School.
To him, the strangest is that the bulk of law schools skimp on aid to students who can least afford tuition. The number of need-based scholarships has actually shrunk in the last five years, according to A.B.A. figures, to 18,000 from 20,000 five years ago.
Mr. Guernsey said he'd like to scrap Albany's system and give money away in the third year, based on the student's ability to pay off loans. ''But if I moved money to loan repayment assistance,'' he said, ''I wouldn't have the money to give to applicants for scholarships coming in, which is likely to mean that the best applicants will go somewhere else.''
Another consequence of merit mania: a lot of heartache and anxiety. After fall semester exams, it dawns on thousands of 1L's, as first-year law students are known, that their financial future is about to change dramatically for the worse.
As realities set in, many are irate. Others, like Ms. Leumer, who graduated from Golden Gate in 2009, feel snookered.
''By the middle of second semester of that first year, everyone saw the system for what it was,'' she said. ''We were furious. We realized that statistically, because of the curve, there was no way for many of us to keep our scholarships. But at that point, you're a year in. They've got you. You feel stuck.''
GOLDEN GATE LAW was founded in 1901, and sits today in a modern building of concrete and brick in the city's Financial District, not far from Fisherman's Wharf. Six years ago, the school attracted some unflattering attention when the A.B.A., which accredits law schools, put it on two-year probation. One reason was that the percentage of graduates who passed the bar on their first attempt, at just over 30 percent, was too low.
Ms. Ramey, who became dean in 2009, said the probation did nothing to affect the number or size of scholarship offers. But in 2006, Ms. Leumer quickly realized that she was surrounded by dozens of students just as motivated to get a 3.0 as she was. Concern turned into worry when, in her first semester, her grades included a B-minus in torts and a B-minus in contracts.
Translated numerically, she had a 2.786.
''I felt like I was getting used to a new form of testing,'' she recalls, ''and had to just get more efficient at studying.''
In the second semester, she raised her grades in almost every class, except one. She ended the year with a 2.967. In the parlance of 1L's, she had ''curved out.''
By then, Ms. Leumer had a serious case of scholarship remorse. Her goal had been to get a law diploma without taking out huge loans, but as the first year ended, she was looking at a $60,000 bill for the next two years of tuition.
A friend and classmate, Rachael Welden-Smith, wound up with a 2.9 in the first year, and, with that number, a deep sense of regret. The previous year, she'd been accepted and sent a deposit to a higher-ranked law school, but she chose Golden Gate when it offered to cover half her tuition with a merit grant.
''At the time,'' Ms. Welden-Smith said, ''I didn't think of the law school as a business.''
What both women realized too late is that it's often mathematically impossible for everyone to keep their grants. This year at Golden Gate, for instance, 57 percent of first-year students -- more than 150 in a class of 268 -- have merit scholarships. But in recent years, only the top third of students at Golden Gate wound up with a 3.0 or better, according to Ms. Ramey, the dean. If past patterns hold, dozens of first-year Golden Gate scholarships are about to vanish.
Ms. Ramey says it is statistically possible for 70 percent of first-year students to maintain a 3.0. She also maintains that Golden Gate 1L's are well informed about the odds they face in keeping scholarships.
''Students who have done well in college assume they will do well in law school,'' she said. They would know better ''if they read our materials, if they listen to anything we told them in our admission process, or read our course catalog.''
Actually, it takes a bit of forensic accounting to figure out how hard it is to keep a 3.0 at Golden Gate. Knowing the G.P.A. that a school expects of its merit winners says little unless you also know where it sets its curve -- essentially, its median grade. A 3.0 at a school where the median is 2.6 is a lot harder to achieve than at a school where it's 2.8.
It also helps to know how many others in a given class have the same offer -- information that Golden Gate, like many schools, puts on its Web site but not in its congratulations letters.
Students who don't seek out this data tend to regard merit scholarship offers as a school saying ''We love you.'' It's more like an invitation to a foot race, and before you get to the starting line you'd better know how fast to run and how many others are running.
''I went online and found a standard deviation calculator,'' said one Golden Gate 1L, explaining what he did to size up the difficulty of achieving a 3.0. Then he taught himself how to use that calculator. He entered data from the school's student handbook, which includes a table with details like the maximum and minimum percentage of A's, B's, C's and D's that a professor can award in a given class.
''The school puts the information on the top shelf,'' said Cassady Toles, another Golden Gate 1L, ''but there is a ladder in the room.''
Many schools, it seems, expect students to find the ladder. The Wayne State University Law School in Detroit tells merit scholarship winners in congratulations letters that they will need a 3.25 G.P.A. to keep their grants, worth nearly $25,000 a year. That means students need to wind up in the top third of their class. But that information isn't in the letter.
How come?
''It's not that we couldn't include it,'' said Ericka Jackson, assistant dean of admissions. ''We are always looking for ways to improve communications with students, and that is an easy fix.''
Then again, disclosing exactly how hard it is to get a 3.25 could diminish Wayne State's appeal to students the school wants most, which could have real repercussions. So many schools are packed so tightly together in the U.S. News rankings that even minuscule gains and losses have an impact.
In the most recent U.S. News rankings, released in March, the median LSAT score at Baylor Law School in Waco, Tex., stood at 162, up two points from the previous year. But that small uptick is part of the reason the school rose to No. 56 in the rankings -- up eight spots on the list of 190
How many of Baylor's 1L's are on merit scholarships? Ninety percent, according to David Swenson, a professor who helped design Baylor's grant program. Given the G.P.A. requirements, he added, 8 out of 10 of those students can expect to keep the money next year.
''It was an accident,'' said Professor Swenson, when asked why the school offered more scholarships this year than it is likely to renew. A greater number of 1L's than expected enrolled at Baylor last fall, he explained, making it the largest class in the school's history.
IN the world of law school deans, U.S. News plays roughly the same role as the final standings in Major League Baseball -- rise and you're golden, sink and you're fretting. The dark comedy in all of this is that many deans consider the rankings to be absurd. They know that schools' reputations don't change much in a given year, and that the U.S. News algorithm can amplify tiny vibrations into quakes.
But as much as academics bemoan the algorithm, it has an audience that can't be ignored, comprising students, lawyers, judges, university presidents and parents.
A lot of parents.
''I remember when I was at Northwestern, a mother called me because her son was deciding between law school at Emory and Boston University,'' said Rayman L. Solomon, now the dean of Rutgers School of Law at Camden. ''He wanted to go to B.U., which was a couple spots behind Emory, because he wanted to live in Boston, not Atlanta. And she was convinced that he was throwing his life away.''
Faith in the meaning of the rankings all but forces a school to offer merit scholarships. Every fall, admissions offices and applicants begin an immense, multilayered haggle that resembles nothing so much as a bustling souk. Aspiring 1L's shop for the best combination of money and prestige, and schools dangle acceptance letters and dollars.
As common as G.P.A. requirements are, they often barely register in applicants' deliberations. The very human tendency to overestimate one's talents is part of the problem. Like the children of Garrison Keillor's fictional Lake Wobegon, all incoming 1L's seem to believe that they are above average.
Consider what happens at Chicago-Kent, the school that offers students less scholarship money ($9,000) if they want it guaranteed, and more ($15,000) if they can clear the 3.25 G.P.A. hurdle. Ninety percent opt for the larger and riskier sum, according to school officials. A ''significant'' number later lose their scholarships, says the school's dean, Harold J. Krent.
''The real issue is that students don't think about this decision in the sophisticated way that you'd like them to,'' he added. ''A lot of students think, 'Well, worst comes to worst, I'll borrow the money,' without realizing how painful it is to pay that money back over time.''
Credit Chicago-Kent with forcing students to consider a trade-off, at least for a moment. Other schools phrase their scholarship offers in lump-sum terms that seem to encourage wishful thinking.
''The maximum value of your merit scholarship is $105,914 over the course of your three years of full-time study,'' read an offer from the George Washington University Law School. A few paragraphs later, it said ''as long as you maintain a 3.0 cumulative G.P.A.''
Officials at George Washington said they would not discuss their scholarship program.
Combine the optimism of students and the enticing language of law schools, then toss in the curve, and an inevitable result is legions of irate and disappointed 1L's.
''Some students would show up crying; others would throw things,'' says Jennifer Wright, a professor at St. Thomas, recalling her time teaching at a school with competitive merit scholarships, the name of which she asked not to be used in this article. ''I had a lot of stuff on my desk. When they wanted to throw something I'd tell them, 'Use the bean bag, not the paperweight.' ''
POPULAR student mythology has it that the A.B.A. requires law schools to grade them on a curve. Not so. But by loading up 1L's with curved classes, Golden Gate and other schools all but ensure that the first year of law school is far more difficult than the two that follow. Which is another way of saying that for many merit grant winners, law school becomes easier, but only after it is too late.
Ms. Leumer's experience is typical. She took few classes that were graded on a curve in Years 2 and 3, and her grades kept improving. Her cumulative G.P.A. for all three years was 3.14.
Her parents chipped in to help with tuition but used money the couple badly needed; her father, a Teamster who drove a tractor at a horse track, had been laid off.
''It was a strain,'' said Ann Robertson, Alexandra's mother and a philosophy teacher at San Francisco State University. ''And we weren't able to help 100 percent.''
Several current Golden Gate students who arrived on merit scholarships say they expect to owe more than $100,000 if -- the more pessimistic say ''when'' -- they lose the grants. Tuition is now more than $38,000 a year. Because money is also needed for rent, food and books, the bills climb from there.
These students will scramble for loans as law schools suffer through what looks increasingly like a public relations debacle.
A lot of livid graduates and some slightly mortified professors have lately been contending that law schools are misleading prospective students about the marketability of a doctor of jurisprudence.
But the A.B.A. seems unaware of the issues raised by merit grants. Its annual survey of law schools is granular enough to ask for the number of hours the library is open, but it doesn't ask how many students lose their scholarships each year.
The schools already know that number. Why not publish it?
''That is a good question, a legitimate question,'' said Bucky Askew, who directs the A.B.A. division that accredits schools. ''It hasn't been an issue brought to our attention. Nobody has written us, contacted us, to say, 'This needs to be on the table.' ''
Why is merit scholarship retention not part of the U.S. News data haul? ''The main reason is that we haven't thought about it,'' said Robert Morse, who oversees the rankings. ''It's not a great answer, but it's an honest answer.''
Then Mr. Morse thought about it.
''This isn't meant to be sarcastic,'' he said, ''but these students are going to law school and they need to learn to read the fine print.''
In a forthcoming paper, Professor Organ proposes a simple system of greater disclosure that, among other figures, would detail the number and percentage of students on scholarships in all three years. Reducing lost-scholarship sticker shock, he suggests, could serve schools' long-term interests. Alumni who feel that they were on the losing end of a raw deal are less likely to send donations. Ms. Leumer, for instance, hears from Golden Gate now and then, asking her for money.
''Many times, I've drafted my response in my head,'' she says.
Suffice it to say, the response does not include a donation. But in one crucial way, Ms. Leumer contributed to Golden Gate the day she passed the California bar on her first try. Thanks in part to all those merit grants, the school's bar passage rate has been rising in recent years and is now roughly double the level when it was on probation.
Ms. Leumer today is volunteering at an environmental nonprofit organization as she looks for a paying job in a gruesome recession in the legal market. She has some warm memories of her years at Golden Gate, but ultimately, she says, the place did not work for her. But by spending $60,000 on tuition, and by helping to bolster a key statistic, she worked for Golden Gate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jerry Organ, of the University of St. Thomas law school, says many schools use merit grant programs to climb the rankings in U.S. News & World Report. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG LASSIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Alexandra Leumer accepted a full-ride grant to law school, not knowing the likelihood that it would be rescinded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER AND MARIA HOEY)(BU1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); GRADES & GRADING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); LAW SCHOOL RANKINGS (73%); RANKINGS (67%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



8 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Hoping to Secure a Cornerstone, the Nets Show Williams a Construction Site

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

 BODY:
The Nets are again idle in the postseason. But there are growing indications that they are actively pursuing plans to turn Deron Williams from an expensive rental into a franchise cornerstone before their move to Brooklyn.
On Thursday, Williams toured the construction site of their future home with Billy King, the team's general manager. Williams's interest in the Barclays Center site is significant. He can become a free agent after next season; the arena is scheduled to open for the 2012-13 season.
''He is certainly enjoying his time with the organization,'' Bob McClaren, Williams's agent, said in a telephone interview. ''They've been tremendous to him and they have a great plan for the future, and Deron feels like the best is yet to come for the franchise.'' 
''His hope is everything will work out to everyone's benefit and a great product will be put out to the fans,'' McClaren said.
Williams is not eligible to sign a contract extension with the Nets until July 17 -- three years after his signing of a four-year, $70 million contract with the Jazz, which has a player option in the final year.
The Nets struck fast in landing Williams, one of the N.B.A.'s most dynamic point guards, in February after diverting their focus from a failed attempt to land Carmelo Anthony.
Anthony landed with the Knicks, and the Nets, in a sense, could foil them by retaining Williams. The Knicks almost certainly will try to attract a top point guard like Williams or New Orleans's Chris Paul should they test next summer's free-agent market after Chauncey Billups's expiring deal is off the ledger.
After the visit, a picture of Williams and King clad in construction hats appeared on Williams's Facebook page with the message, ''This place will be a ballers' paradise.''
He said on the team's Web site: ''You hear about how it's going to look and how it's going to be finished. But it's good to come and see how the progress is. You can kind of start picturing it, what it's going to be like, see the layout of things. And it's good to see the area -- I hadn't been to this area yet. It's different. This is in the heart of the city. It's kind of like the Garden. It's the same feel. It's special.''
A wrist injury limited Williams to only 12 games with the Nets after his trade from Utah. Last month, Williams underwent surgery on his right wrist to have three small bone fragments and scar tissue removed.
In that cameo, Williams averaged 15 points and 12.8 assists.
The Nets gave up a great deal in the trade -- Devin Harris, Derrick Favors, two first-round draft picks and cash considerations -- with no assurances of keeping Williams. But Williams has issued only positive comments about the organization.
Both sides will know more about the economic structures of an extension once a new labor agreement is in place after the current model expires this summer.
''The way I look at it, I see it all the time, we're on the same page, and we're planning a future,'' King said.
McClaren said another possibility -- one of many -- would have Williams not opt out of his contract early and play his first season in Brooklyn under what would become an expiring deal. With Williams on board and a move on the horizon, the Nets could well become a landing spot for top-tier free agents.
Orlando's Dwight Howard can become a free agent next summer, and Howard and the Magic currently cannot even agree if an extension has already been offered. When Atlanta eliminated the Magic, Matt Mitnick, Williams's longtime associate, discussed on Twitter the possibility of pairing Howard and Williams. He stressed that he posted only on his own behalf.
The Nets last qualified for the playoffs in 2007 and bottomed out with 12 wins in the 2009-10 season. Mikhail Prokhorov assumed ownership of the franchise in 2010 and brought in King and Coach Avery Johnson. The Nets won 24 games this season.
''He relishes the opportunity to help market the team to the fans and to, hopefully, free agents,'' McClaren said of Williams. ''There is always great hope and opportunity for success when you've got a guy that can distribute the ball and make other players better. That's what Deron Williams does so well.
''That will make the Nets organization very attractive to free agents, and that style of play will be attractive to the fans. The possibility is there to do something really special.''
Williams is already the centerpiece of the Nets' move to Brooklyn and is featured, with his blessing, on a Times Square billboard with the slogan Bound for Brooklyn.
''He's told me several times how excited he is and how they're trying to reach this whole new market and trying to retain some of the past,'' McClaren said. ''I know Deron is hopeful all this can work out like everyone is hoping and planning. I think he wants to be a part of it.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Nets took Deron Williams on a tour of the site of their future home in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIO CORTEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (89%); BASKETBALL (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (62%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (86%); UTAH JAZZ (55%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



9 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: A Candidate in Peru Tacks Toward Brazil's Course

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Andrea Zarate contributed reporting from Lima.

 BODY:
LIMA, Peru -- In his failed 2006 bid for Peru's presidency, Ollanta Humala donned red T-shirts, boasted of plans to assert state control over energy resources and blasted opponents for warming to the United States, using elements from the playbook that was then helping propel leftist political allies of Venezuela to electoral victories in Latin America.
But in a transformation this year that points to the eclipse of Venezuela by Brazil, Mr. Humala has swapped the red shirts for dark suits, explicitly rejected talk of seizing private companies and celebrated Brazil's market-oriented economic model, while distancing himself from Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez.
Mr. Humala, 48, made the shift after hiring Brazilian campaign advisers tied to Brazil's governing Workers Party. Now, in a surprise to Peru's establishment, whose candidates split the vote in the first round in April, the strategy has helped make Mr. Humala, a former army officer who led a military revolt in 2000, the front-runner in polls in a tight race with Keiko Fujimori. 
''The Venezuelan model is not applicable to Peru,'' Mr. Humala said bluntly in a wide-ranging interview at his home here. If he is elected, he said, Peru will not join the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas, or ALBA, the Venezuelan-led political bloc that includes Bolivia, Cuba and Nicaragua.
In contrast, Mr. Humala repeatedly praised Brazil and Brazilian companies, which are major investors in Peru's mines, steel industry and hydroelectric projects, and the new Interoceanic Highway connecting western Brazil to Peru's Pacific coast. All together, Brazilian investment here could climb above $30 billion over the next decade, according to the Brazil-Peru Chamber of Commerce and Integration.
''The Brazilian experience has delivered success and results by respecting freedom of the press, the adequate management of the macroeconomy, monetary stability,'' Mr. Humala said. ''Brazil has combined economic growth with social inclusion.''
Ahead of the June 5 runoff election, doubts surrounding Mr. Humala have accentuated a notable schism within Peru's conservative elite.
Fearing a return to the authoritarianism and generalized corruption of the government of Ms. Fujimori's father, Alberto Fujimori, who is jailed here after being convicted of human rights abuses, the Nobel laureate Mario Vargas Llosa said he preferred Mr. Humala, ''unhappily and with fear,'' over Ms. Fujimori, who has surrounded herself with her father's old advisers. (In recent days, Ms. Fujimori has also spoken glowingly of Brazil's economic and social policies.)
Prominent figures like Archbishop Juan Luis Cipriani of Lima have since lashed out at Mr. Vargas Llosa, Peru's leading intellectual, for supporting Mr. Humala, and the established news media have mounted a barrage of coverage critical of his candidacy.
Undaunted by the controversy, Mr. Humala, speaking in a measured tone for more than 90 minutes in his spacious home, insisted that his transformation was genuine. But his family figures in this election, too.
Ollanta Humala has publicly disavowed the thinking of his father, Isaac Humala, a lawyer who espouses an ultranationalist ideology that calls for the supremacy of ''copper-skinned'' Peruvians, and the candidate said his own ideas were merely ''nationalist in the context of consolidating the Peruvian nation.''
''Peru has changed, so we politicians must also change,'' he said, referring to Peru's recent economic boom. ''Politicians cannot keep seeing ghosts, keep seeing cold wars and past schemes.''
Calling the United States a ''brother country,'' Mr. Humala further distanced himself from Venezuela's president by saying he wanted to ''qualitatively improve'' ties with Washington, partly by engaging in a cooperative fight against drug trafficking in Peru, which is grappling with soaring cocaine production.
''We must work hand in hand,'' Mr. Humala, dressed in a white shirt and jeans, said of Peru and the United States and of plans to strengthen ties with the Drug Enforcement Administration, which Venezuela and Bolivia have expelled. ''We need to improve our intelligence cooperation.''
For Mr. Humala, who took 31.7 percent of the vote in the first round against 23.6 percent for Ms. Fujimori, it has been a struggle to lure middle-class voters in Lima and other cities to his side. His plan to raise taxes on mining companies to finance social programs appeals to poor voters in the mountain regions and tropical lowlands, but fears over his controversial past as a military officer, and doubts about his nationalist statements in the not-so-distant past, have many on edge.
''He isn't what he intends to portray,'' said Claudia Carrillo, 37, a secretary here. ''Even if you burn a chicken's beak, they'll continue pecking.''
Mr. Humala still chafes at criticism of the military uprising he led in 2000, calling it an ''insurgency'' instead of a ''rebellion.'' Another episode that haunts Mr. Humala involves claims that he disappeared and tortured civilians while stationed at the Madre Mia counterinsurgency base in 1992 during the war against the Maoists of the Shining Path.
Human rights researchers found evidence implicating Mr. Humala, who operated at the time with the nom de guerre ''Capitan Carlos,'' in three cases of torture and in five disappearances, but Peruvian judicial authorities shelved their investigation after witnesses contradicted their own testimony.
Mystery still shrouds what happened at Madre Mia, after a military official was accused of bribing a witness in the case to retract his testimony. ''I defended my country with honor,'' Mr. Humala said when asked about his time as Capitan Carlos. ''Justice proved my innocence.''
Mr. Humala's family has also aroused doubts among some voters, especially over whether his recent distancing from Venezuela is merely cosmetic. He acknowledged that his wife, Nadine Heredia, had received a monthly stipend from a Venezuelan company. News media here reported that she got $4,000 a month from The Daily Journal, a now defunct Caracas newspaper.
''That's all in the past, and the amount was no great thing,'' Mr. Humala said.
Concerns over both Mr. Humala and Ms. Fujimori, 35, have many here trying to decipher which candidate poses fewer risks for Peru's institutions, which remain fragile a decade after the collapse of Mr. Fujimori's government and after centuries of exclusion. (The Constitution did not grant illiterate Peruvians the right to vote until 1979.)
''From the standpoint of liberal democracy, this is a terrible place to be,'' said Steven Levitsky, a Harvard government professor who is teaching in Lima this year. Still, he said that Mr. Humala, whether wanting radical change or not, might face greater pressure from segments of society that oppose him than would Ms. Fujimori, who draws greater support from the news media and political and business sectors.
''It's plausible that Humala won't be like Chavez or Lula,'' said Mr. Levitsky, referring to Venezuela's leader and Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Brazil's former president. ''He could be more similar to Fernando Lugo in Paraguay,'' another South American country where Brazil's influence is growing, ''an outsider who ended up moderating a lot.''
Still, choosing between Mr. Humala and Ms. Fujimori remains a dilemma for many voters, making the race Latin America's most closely followed election this year.
''Both are so bad that they are a total disappointment,'' said Hugo Flores, 58, a refrigerator salesman. ''But if that's what the people want, that's what they'll get.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ollanta Humala, the leader in Peru's presidential race, picked Brazil over Venezuela as a guide. His opponent is Keiko Fujimori. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (72%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ARMIES (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (62%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (62%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); CORRUPTION (60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (99%); BRAZIL (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



10 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: A Doctor's Undivided Focus on the Minds of the Elderly

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

 BODY:
MIAMI -- The Merry Widows, as they call themselves, were blinged out, Florida-style, to celebrate Elayne Weisburd's 79th birthday at a sprawling community for seniors. Mylar balloons levitated above their table, and sparklers twinkled from a cake.
The guest of honor and her two friends were beaming when Dr. Marc E. Agronin, a geriatric psychiatrist and the director of mental health, arrived with a hug for everyone long after what would be normal office hours.
The Merry Widows moved to the community when their husbands developed Alzheimer's disease and looked to Dr. Agronin to prepare them for what lay ahead. But while treating their husbands' disease, he became their psychiatrist, too. He urged the women to attend therapy groups, made suggestions about medication for anxiety and encouraged new bonds of friendship.
Dr. Agronin calls them his graduates -- a trio of success stories among 3,700 patients he is responsible for, in what, by all accounts, is the largest geriatric psychiatry practice in the nation, at the Miami Jewish Health Systems. 
The doctor is a rare breed even in Florida, which has the highest proportion of people older than 65. There are only 17 board-certified geriatric psychiatrists in the state, and a mere six here in southeast Florida, where snowbirds from New York often come to perch. In March, acknowledging the crisis in care, the federal Institute of Medicine began a study of the shortage of geriatric mental health workers nationwide.
Dr. Agronin, 45, is unusual not just because of his specialty but because he is a salaried staff member immersed in the fabric of life for patients and caregivers. Residents in most senior facilities must await a shifting cast of mental health professionals, who are available -- even for a prescription -- only one or two days a week or in an emergency.
Now, a growing number of experts are calling for integrating mental health professionals into all levels of communities for the rising population of aging Americans, from nursing homes to assisted-living centers.
Gary Kennedy, the director of geriatric psychiatry at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, says psychological care is ''equally if not more important than'' medical care for this group. ''Health policy continues to lag behind the reality that these are now mental health facilities,'' Dr. Kennedy said of communities for the elderly.
While Alzheimer's receives the lion's share of public attention, garden-variety depression, anxiety and sleep disorders also accompany old age. Particularly for late-life depression, Dr. Agronin points to data assembled by the psychiatry department at the University of California, San Francisco, supporting behavioral and group therapy, treatment rarely tried with patients from generations typically considered averse to discussing such issues.
But treatment that focuses on talking, rather than on medical procedures, has a lower Medicare reimbursement rate. The economic difficulties may explain why more doctors have not entered the time-intensive field.
''Approximating what I do is hardly economically feasible,'' said Dr. Agronin, the author of ''How We Age.'' ''Caregivers need assessment and services as well, and this is not reimbursable time.''
For Dr. Agronin, and for the social worker and the psychologist who work with him, there is no such thing as the 50-minute billing hour. Rather, on a routine day, his work is often done ad hoc as he wanders the corridors, dining rooms and garden here. He loosens the boundaries set by most schools of psychiatry, which discourage clinicians from befriending patients. Here, staff members are physically affectionate and may even give patients a personal cellphone number.
''He is a lifesaver,'' Mrs. Weisburd said as Dr. Agronin helped blow out the candles on her cake. ''He helps you walk down the mountain.''
The mountain is old age, with its physical and cognitive decline, its steady loss of loved ones and its inevitable outcome. Dr. Agronin says his mission is to restore dignity and hope to people who were raised at a time when mental issues were often stigmatized.
Some 700 of Dr. Agronin's patients live on the main campus of Miami Jewish Health Systems, in independent or assisted-living apartments, a nursing home or an Alzheimer's unit. The rest of them come to his clinic or are served by the system's community programs throughout South Florida.
Dr. Agronin and other geriatricians find that behavioral therapy (changing the way one thinks and solving current problems) works better than analysis (excavating the past). And Dr. Agronin, who has written about some of his cases for the Science section of The New York Times, said he relied on group therapy because patients often benefit from the insights of their peers.
That was the case with Francoise Dorville, a 78-year-old Haitian immigrant who uses a wheelchair and is on dialysis and oxygen. Mr. Dorville, a widower estranged from his four surviving children, was stabilized with medication for depression and then agreed -- reluctantly -- to participate in a group.
Though he did not make eye contact with anyone in the group for the first month, Mr. Dorville did show up for the daily two-hour sessions. Eventually, the group persuaded him to contact his children, discussing his old-country idea that being a good father meant providing food and shelter and little else.
Mr. Dorville told his children that he would welcome a chance to be a more loving parent. Now they visit regularly; one son brings dinner weekly, and a daughter-in-law assembled a family photo album. Mr. Dorville describes himself as ''a happy man.''
Dr. Agronin said that older people were not by definition miserable. ''We have to be very careful in the assumptions we make,'' he said, ''and not project our own fears of aging. Their lives can be way better than we imagine.''
The Merry Widows -- Mrs. Weisburd, Muriel Cohen, 91, and Sandra Sachs, 78 -- made their way here by a common route: from homes at the edge of golf courses. Wives and mothers for 50-plus years, they arrived with their husbands but remained here after their deaths.
''It's like being on a cruise,'' Mrs. Weisburd said. ''You don't have to change the sheets, and there's always something to do.''
Dr. Agronin sees them daily as they hurry between knitting classes and lectures on current events. Recently, he wandered into the library where they were chatting. Out of the blue, the usually buoyant Mrs. Weisburd lost her composure. Two of their regular dinner companions had recently died, she told him, breaching a dam of tears.
Mrs. Cohen added, ''I cried so bitterly -- more than I did for my husband.''
Why, Mrs. Sachs asked, ''do they send buses of psychologists to a high school every time there's a tragedy,'' but here, where death is constant, ''there's only a brief memorial service and cookies?''
Dr. Agronin talked to them about accumulated grief, how one death re-opens others, how they had held themselves together for their families' sake. He said grief is part of the human condition, not a psychiatric problem.
''You are doing exactly what you should be doing: talking to other people,'' he reassured them. ''But maybe we need to do that more deliberately.''
So a new therapy group was born.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN THE FIELD: Dr. Marc E. Agronin, a geriatric psychiatrist and mental health director for Miami Jewish Health Systems, speaking with Edward Newman, 90. Below left, Muriel Cohen, 91, one of the ''Merry Widows'' group of friends. Below center, Dr. Agronin with a potential resident of the systems' community for seniors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GERIATRICS (91%); AGING (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DEPRESSION (89%); NURSING HOMES (77%); MEDICARE (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); SLEEP DISORDERS (69%); POPULATION GROWTH (67%); SLEEP (64%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (63%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



11 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS LONG ISLAND; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: To Sell First Novel, Putting That Marketing Degree to Use

BYLINE: By AILEEN JACOBSON

 BODY:
GREENLAWN, N.Y.
GAE POLISNER doesn't collect troll dolls, but on one recent morning hundreds of tiny ones were clustered in plastic bags on the antique grand piano in her living room.
Ms. Polisner, 46, plans to give away the dolls -- along with bookmarks sporting photos of neon-haired trolls and mounds of troll-decorated buttons -- at signings to help promote her first published book, ''The Pull of Gravity,'' a novel aimed at teenagers. She is using the troll dolls because Jaycee Amato, a quirky female character in the book, likes to wear them on a string around her neck.
''I got an undergraduate degree in marketing, and I like to tell my parents that they're finally getting their money's worth,'' said Ms. Polisner, who is also a family-law lawyer with a part-time practice in divorce mediation. She even persuaded the makers of Tootsie Rolls to donate red wax lips -- another plot element in her book -- for her to distribute to readers, she said. 
''We're in a different world,'' said Frances Foster, Ms. Polisner's book editor, about the need for authors to help market their own books. Ms. Foster has her own imprint, Frances Foster Books, at Farrar, Straus and Giroux. ''Gae has been able to learn the rules and navigate them in an extraordinary way,'' she said.
The novel will be released on May 10, but Ms. Polisner has already spoken to several high school classes -- it helps that there is a John Steinbeck connection in her book -- and arranged a book-signing party at the Book Revue in Huntington on May 14. She has also organized a panel discussion with five other authors from around the country, who will talk about their work at the Huntington Public Library on May 22.
Several librarians read the book before the library agreed to the program, according to Beth Barning, a librarian in the youth and parent services section. At Ms. Polisner's suggestion, the library added cupcakes and a henna-tattoo artist to help attract listeners, Ms. Barning said.
''Gae is just remarkably energetic,'' said Geoff Herbach, the author of ''Stupid Fast,'' a sports-themed book to be published by Sourcebooks Fire on June 1, who is one of the library-panel members. ''It's amazing to see the connections she makes through social media.''
Mr. Herbach, 41, who lives in Mankato, Minn., and Minneapolis, is the lone male among the 17 members of a group called the Class of 2K11, to which Ms. Polisner also belongs and from which she drew her panel. All are debuting middle-grade or young-adult authors who help each other promote their books. The original Class of 2K was founded in 2007, and each year a new ''class'' forms.
Ms. Polisner scheduled the panel for the weekend before the start of the publishing industry convention BookExpo America, because most 2K11 members will attend the event, which will be held in Manhattan from May 23 to 26. She offered to let the panel participants -- whom she has never met in person -- stay at her home for the weekend. ''We're going to have a slumber party,'' she said.
At least some of the panel members are planning to take her up on her offer of hospitality. They include Mr. Herbach and Amy Fellner Dominy, of Phoenix, who said in a telephone interview, ''I call Gae my best virtual friend ever.''
Ms. Dominy, 47, is a former advertising copywriter who also has commissioned bookmarks for her novel, ''OyMG'' (Walker and Co., May 10), about a Jewish girl forced to cope with anti-Semitism, and has made school visits. ''I think as debut authors in this economy, we feel the need to do a lot on our own,'' she said.
Though Ms. Polisner's new book is her first, she has been writing stories or poems since she was young, she said. For a while, she had to push her literary aspirations aside: ''My first law school paper came back with a big red X on it and a note, 'This is not a creative writing class.' ''
She grew up in Smithtown, where her parents still live, and moved back to Long Island from Manhattan with her husband, David Miller, also a lawyer, when their younger son, Holden, was born. He is now 13; their older son, Sam, is 15.
After settling in Greenlawn, Ms. Polisner said, she placed a small desk in a windowless room in her basement and wrote two women's novels, neither yet published, in her spare time. Her publishing luck turned better when she switched to young adult fiction, a shift that she said grew out of her difficulty in finding good contemporary stories with male protagonists for her sons. She also moved her desk to the sunlit living room, steps from the grand piano.
The narrator of ''The Pull of Gravity'' is a thoughtful boy, Nick Gardner, almost 15, who goes on a long bus trip with the spunky Jaycee to fulfill the dying wish of their friend Scooter. They plan to find Scooter's long-missing father and return to him a rare signed edition of John Steinbeck's ''Of Mice and Men,'' the themes of which (including friendship) play a substantial part in her novel.
Ms. Polisner put a bit of her own ''snarky sense of humor'' into Jaycee, she said, and relied on her sons' interest in the ''Star Wars'' movies, which are also part of the plot, and their natural grasp of teen habits and jargon, to help her find the right voice for Nick.
However, she said, the novel, which takes place in upstate New York, is not autobiographical. Neither are the two other young adult books she has in the pipeline, she said. In contrast, her unpublished women's novels take place on Long Island and are loosely autobiographical -- including her interest in swimming in her backyard pool and off West Neck Beach in Lloyd Harbor in a wet suit.
Swimming isn't just a diversion, she said: ''I realized that when I was blocked in my writing, it would all come to me in the water, so it became a creative outlet.''
Gae Polisner will read from and sign ''The Pull of Gravity'' at Book Revue, 313 New York Avenue, Huntington, on May 14 at 5 p.m. Information: (631) 271-1442 or bookrevue.com. She will moderate a panel of authors at the Huntington Public Library, 338 Main Street, Huntington, on May 22 at 3 p.m. Information: thehuntingtonlibrary.org or (631) 427- 5165.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON A TROLL: Gae Polisner is using troll dolls, troll bookmarks and troll buttons to promote her new book, ''The Pull of Gravity.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); LIBRARIES (76%); YOUNG ADULT LITERATURE (76%); PUBLISHING (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); YOUTH MARKET (75%); FAMILY LAW (74%); BOOKSTORES (71%); LIBRARIANS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (67%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (53%); LAWYERS (53%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (65%) MINNESOTA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



12 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Classical Music Finds Ways to Reach (Way) Out

BYLINE: By NEIL TESSER. 
ressetn@aol.com

 BODY:
Last fall, during his consultancy to the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the celebrated cellist Yo-Yo Ma visited the Illinois Youth Center, a correctional institution in Warrenville. He accompanied the female inmates as they rehearsed a musical show based on their life experiences, as part of the C.S.O.'s program to reach communities far from Symphony Center.
In December, the superstar soprano Renee Fleming, in her role as the Lyric Opera's creative consultant, outlined plans to draw new audiences to the Lyric's home on Wacker Drive. They include the classic American musical ''Show Boat'' in the operatic season and concerts by non-opera artists like Sting.
That sort of thinking should appeal to Anthony Freud, who was named the Lyric's new general director on April 21. His previous tenure at the Houston Grand Opera included creation of the world's first mariachi opera, one of several programs establishing him as an envelope-bursting innovator in this country and in his native Britain. 
That these three audience-builders should appear on the Chicago scene within the last 16 months is no accident. Even before the recession, the 21st century posed challenges to classical-music institutions. Not even the venerable giants have been immune. In April, the 111-year-old Philadelphia Orchestra voted to seek bankruptcy protection. The C.S.O. and the Lyric are healthy enough, but they can hardly ignore the warning signs around them.
Ms. Fleming and Mr. Ma -- the first creative consultants employed by either institution -- are spearheading the response. In addition to influential ideas, they bring a charisma that carries beyond concert halls and into popular culture.
Add the world-renowned Riccardo Muti, who recently took over as the C.S.O.'s music director, and you have the sort of star-power lineup that, say, the Cubs have been seeking for years. Even more than sports teams, classical music needs that kind of celebrity these days.
No niche of the performing arts has felt the sting of the digital revolution more than music. The record industry has been damaged by easily copied MP3 files. IPods allow listeners to hear music all day, everywhere: no need to step into a concert hall or arena. As improved technology brings higher-quality downloads and high-definition video streaming, even the most persnickety orchestra and opera fans can find reasons to avoid live events: why contend with traffic, parking, audience sniffles or a plain old off-night on stage?
A 2008 study by the National Endowment for the Arts surveyed adults attending arts performances at least once during the previous year. Since 2002, the classical music audience has declined by almost 20 percent and the opera audience by 30 percent.
Susan Mathieson Mayer, director of communications for the Lyric, put the blame for the drop in attendance on cutbacks in arts education in public schools. ''We survey opera subscribers continuously, and almost invariably they had some kind of exposure when they were kids: music lessons, parents taking them to concerts, et cetera,'' she said. ''Times are very different from 20 years ago. We're dealing with maybe two generations who did not have the same kind of exposure that their parents did.''
Deborah F. Rutter, president of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra Association, identified another factor. ''The competition for leisure time is so much more challenging than it was 20 to 30 years ago,'' she said. In fact, given the lure of computer-driven entertainment, she finds it ''fascinating that this passion and excitement still exist for the live concert experience.''
But that passion belongs to an increasingly older audience. The N.E.A. survey found that in 2008, nearly 40 percent of the symphony audience, and about 35 percent of operagoers, were older than 55. By comparison, the audience for Latin music, among the most popular idioms surveyed, counts only about 20 percent of its audience in that demographic.
Both Ms. Rutter and Ms. Mayer say their challenge lies in enticing younger audiences to show up a few times and then to turn that interest into habit, so that by the time they reach their 30s and 40s and have more disposable income, they might become regular attendees and even subscribers.
Ms. Rutter describes the strategy as ''Trick them into loving you for the rest of time.'' The C.S.O.'s student ticket policy is a case in point. For $10, registered students can reserve a ticket online weeks before a concert; when they show up, they get the best available seats. ''They could be in a lower balcony seat that normally runs $120,'' Ms. Rutter said, noting that last year the program attracted some 14,000 students.
The Lyric's NEXT program sends an e-blast to college students announcing unsold tickets. ''This past year we had probably close to 10,000 college students attending, at a cost of $20 a ticket'' for seats that can sell for up to $200, Ms. Mayer said.
Some seemingly novel concepts are firmly rooted in centuries of tradition. Ms. Fleming hit on the idea of bringing Broadway to the Lyric last summer when she was in Vienna, visiting an exhibition about Gustav Mahler, the 19th-century composer and opera director. ''Mahler was quoted as saying how excited he was to be presenting works by Mozart 100 years after they were written,'' Ms. Fleming said. ''I thought that would be a good place to start in the U.S. too,'' with homegrown works from the previous century.
At Houston Grand Opera, Mr. Freud left his stamp with ''The Refuge,'' a 2007 production for which he commissioned a poet and a composer to interview hundreds of non-native Houstonians to learn their ''journey stories'' -- how they ended up in the city -- and turn them into a full-fledged production.
''On one level, you can regard opera as a 400-year-old European art form,'' he said in Chicago the day after his hiring. ''But if you distill opera, it's simply telling stories through words and music, and that transcends history and ethnicity.''
The Lyric has already dipped a toe in these waters, notably with the 2010-11 season's finale, ''Hercules.'' The famed director Peter Sellars drew on weeks of workshops with American military veterans to transfer the story from ancient Greece to the modern United States, and to explore the difficulties that returning soldiers have in leaving the traumas of war on the battlefield.
Do such productions build audiences? At a reception following the opera's dress rehearsal, which was attended by more than 75 of the military veterans who had worked with Mr. Sellars, several allowed that this was their first opera experience and that they did not really follow much of the action onstage. While it is unlikely that many of them will return, the production did attract major news media exposure.
Similarly, the inmates from Warrenville probably will not rush off to sign up for the new season at the Chicago Symphony when they are released. But the idea behind that program, and others in the orchestra's ambitious Citizen Musician initiative, is to expand the audience indirectly, by building community ties. ''By going beyond the seats in Orchestra Hall, they're doing the right thing,'' Mr. Ma said.
And such experiences leave their mark on the consulting musicians as well. ''What a musician does is collect all these experiences and then report back in sound,'' Mr. Ma said. ''I know after this, the Dvorak Concerto sounds different when I play it. There's more love there -- more humanity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Operagoers at a Chicago Lyric Opera matinee of Georges Bizet's ''Carmen,'' above and bottom. Below, selling Chicago Symphony Orchestra tickets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); OPERA (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MUSICAL THEATER (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (71%); STREAMING MEDIA (66%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



13 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Bubble Beater

BYLINE: By PAUL M. BARRETT. 
Paul M. Barrett is an assistant managing editor of Bloomberg Businessweek.

 BODY:
MONEY AND POWER
How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World
By William D. Cohan
658 pp. Doubleday. $30.50.
Contrary to the silly subtitle his publisher no doubt foisted on him, William D. Cohan does not argue that Goldman Sachs rules the world. A judicious author, Cohan avoids hyperbole in ''Money and Power,'' a definitive account of the most profitable and influential investment bank of the modern era.
Readers who enjoyed the Rolling Stone writer Matt Taibbi's famous 2009 hit job -- in which he portrayed Goldman as ''a great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money'' -- may find Cohan's account dry by comparison. In the wake of the financial crisis of 2008, some may question whether he shows too much deference to Wall Street. Cohan, a former investment banker and a regular contributor to the Opinionator blog on NYTimes.com, implicitly accepts a social order in which a tiny elite pays itself fabulously for esoteric pursuits far removed from the provision of ordinary products and services. But his lack of populist resentment heightens Cohan's credibility as a Goldman critic. What can seem at times like excessive solicitousness turns out to be a wise strategy of allowing the firm's deeds to speak for themselves. 
In an earlier work, ''House of Cards,'' Cohan told the tale of Bear Stearns, the investment bank that collapsed during the crisis as a result of sheer recklessness. Goldman fared very differently. Demonstrating extraordinary discipline, it hedged risks and made piles of money even as the real estate bubble burst and credit froze worldwide. How did this happen? Are Goldman's people smarter than everyone else? These are the issues at the core of ''Money and Power.''
Marcus Goldman, a former clothing merchant from Burgpreppach, Germany, opened his doors at 30 Pine Street in Lower Manhattan in 1869. Working from a cellar office next to a coal chute, he bought accounts receivable from local businessmen at a discount. His clients got quick cash and were saved what at the time was an ''arduous trip uptown'' to a commercial bank. The maturation of what became Goldman Sachs offers a fascinating narrative of turn-of-the-century New York and its German Jewish establishment. The Goldman firm branched out to help arrange the public sale of shares on behalf of Sears, Underwood and Studebaker; Woolworth, Goodrich and Continental Can. Cohan recounts these events capably, drawing on the work of historians like Stephen Birmingham. Where ''Money and Power'' begins to make a more original contribution is in explaining Goldman's cultivation of a reputation for brilliance unique even in the rarefied precincts of Wall Street.
Part of the mystique derived from truly exceptional leaders, men like the senior partner Sidney Weinberg, who at dicey moments in the 1930s could consult privately with his friend the president, Franklin D. Roosevelt. Another ingredient was the esprit de corps that Weinberg and his successors nurtured among their subordinates. By demanding utter loyalty and rewarding it richly, Goldman invariably stayed on message and exuded a singular confidence. A private-equity executive who competes as well as invests with Goldman tells Cohan that ''you'll never get a Goldman banker after three beers'' saying that his colleagues are a bunch of duplicitous and unpleasant people.
Image control and self-correction have been central to Goldman's ability to weather catastrophe. During the Great Depression, the firm lost much of its capital in a swindle of its own invention. In the late 1940s, it was one of 17 Wall Street banks accused of illegal collusion by the federal government. More recently, Cohan notes, it has survived ''rogue traders, suicidal clients and charges of insider trading.'' Goldman, he adds, ''has come far closer -- repeatedly -- to financial collapse than its reputation would attest.''
In the run-up to the crisis of 2008, Goldman underwrote billions of dollars of toxic mortgage securities -- the sort of irresponsible financial engineering that helped destroy Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers. But a small group of Goldman traders realized sooner than most others on Wall Street that the industry had gone overboard wagering that real estate /prices would rise indefinitely. In December 2006, this trading team began betting that the market would crater. Their billions in winnings allowed Goldman to more than offset its mortgage losses and emerge in 2009 stronger than ever.
Goldman's willingness in 2007 to mark down the value of its mortgage-related inventory gave it a sober sense of its financial position while rivals were clinging to delusions. As word spread that Goldman was taking write-offs, investors lost faith in the accounting of other financial institutions, hastening the demise of several of Goldman's key competitors.
The author acknowledges Goldman's undeniable talent for self-preservation without idealizing the firm. He explains that by underwriting those ill-advised mortgage securities, Goldman played a deplorable role in stoking the nationwide real estate insanity. He shows how far removed this activity was from raising money to build legitimate businesses and advising the executives of those companies -- once, but no longer, the bedrock of Goldman's franchise.
While Goldman corrected course earlier than others, it still barely avoided what Cohan calls ''the tsunami-like repercussions of the crisis.'' With its entire industry trembling in the fall of 2008, the firm increasingly had trouble borrowing the money it needed to finance its daily operations. Goldman and Morgan Stanley transformed themselves from securities firms into bank holding companies. The move subjected them to more regulation but made available short-term loans from the Federal Reserve. ''Goldman and Morgan Stanley,'' Cohan writes, ''made the move as a last-ditch, Hail Mary pass to restore the market's confidence in their firms and stave off their own -- once unthinkable -- bankruptcy filings.'' In other words, taxpayers essentially rescued the investment bankers in the name of warding off a second Great Depression.
The final episode in ''Money and Power'' concerns the fraud lawsuit that the Securities and Exchange Commission filed last year, accusing Goldman of deceiving clients to whom it had sold ''synthetic'' mortgage securities (don't ask). While the ostensible victims, a pair of large European banks, were betting that mort/gages would pay off, Goldman was assisting yet another client, an American hedge fund operator who had bet that the same mortgages would default. One client put its chips on red; another, on black. Only one could win.
The S.E.C. alleged that Goldman, the casino proprietor, failed to disclose to the banks that the hedge fund operator had actually helped select the flimsy mort/gages, which did, in fact, default. Goldman's main defense was that this is merely business as usual on Wall Street. The European banks, it added, were sophisticated investors capable of looking out for themselves. Without admitting guilt, Goldman settled the case, coughing up its $15 million fee and paying a record civil penalty of $535 million -- pocket change for a firm that handed out $15.4 billion in bonuses in 2010.
Cohan dispassionately gives readers the information they need to ponder whether investment banking has moved in a constructive direction since the days when Goldman helped Sears and Continental Can grow. He falters on just one peripheral point, when he suggests that perhaps the crisis of 2008 will leave Goldman's reputation tarnished. But, as he says, in January of this year, after all the Wall Street mayhem and recrimination, Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman's chairman and chief executive, was invited to the White House for a state dinner in honor of President Hu Jintao of China. Goldman, it seems, still casts its spell on America.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WRITERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); HISTORY (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (68%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%); GERMANY (67%)

TITLE: Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



14 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Data Privacy, Put to The Test

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
BIG OIL. Big Food. Big Pharma.
To the catalog of corporate ''bigs'' that worry a lot of us little people, add this: Big Data.
It was not a good week for those who guard their privacy. First, we learned that Apple and Google have been using our smartphones to collect location data. Then Sony acknowledged that its PlayStation network had been hacked -- the latest in a string of troubling data breaches.
You'd have to be living off the grid not to realize that just about everything there is to know about you -- what you buy, where you go -- is worth something to someone. And the more we live online, the more companies learn about us. 
But to what extent do others have a right to share and sell that information? That is the crux of a data-mining case that had arguments last Tuesday before the Supreme Court.
The case, Sorrell v. IMS Health, is ostensibly about medical privacy: Vermont passed a law in 2007 that lets each doctor decide whether pharmacies can, for marketing purposes, sell prescription records linking him or her by name to the kinds and amounts of drugs prescribed. State legislators passed the law after the Vermont Medical Society said that such marketing intruded on doctors and could exert too much influence on prescriptions.
But three health information firms, including IMS Health and Verispan, along with a pharmaceutical industry trade group, challenged the law, saying it restricted commercial free speech. Access to prescription records, IMS Health says, helps pharmaceutical companies market efficiently to doctors whose patients would most benefit from specific drugs.
Now the justices are to decide whether the Vermont law is constitutional.
But with the recent headlines about privacy invasion -- the PlayStation hack followed a recent breach at the online marketing company Epsilon that exposed e-mail addresses of customers of Citibank, Walgreens, Target and other companies -- the Vermont case is tapping into a much broader conversation about consumer protection and informed consent.
The case raises questions about who is collecting, managing, storing, sharing and selling all that data. Just as important, privacy advocates say, it raises questions about whether data brokers are adequately safeguarding it.
People generally don't have much control over who collects and sells information about them. Moreover, says Christopher Calabrese, a legislative counsel at the American Civil Liberties Union, they also don't even know the names of the data brokers who compile those electronic profiles.
And, so, consumer advocates are setting their sights on Big Data.
''Without government intervention, we may soon find the Internet has been transformed from a library and playground to a fishbowl,'' Mr. Calabrese testified in March during a Senate hearing on consumer privacy, ''and that we have unwittingly ceded core values of privacy and autonomy.''
There are a few laws, like the Video Privacy Protection Act, that prohibit businesses from releasing personally identifiable records, like video rental histories, without customer consent. The Digital Advertising Alliance, a coalition of online marketing groups, introduced a program last year that notifies consumers about online tracking and allows them to opt out of advertising tailored to them.
The Vermont law amounts to a kind of do-not-call option for doctors who may welcome visits from pharmaceutical sales reps but don't want drug marketing based on their own prescription records.
That marketing practice is possible because pharmacies, which are required by law to collect detailed information about prescriptions they fill, can sell doctor-specific prescription records to data brokers. (According to federal privacy regulations, personal information about patients, like names and addresses, must be removed before the records can be sold for marketing.) Firms like IMS Health then combine the records, and pharmaceutical reps often use them to tailor presentations to individual doctors.
The central concern is privacy -- of both doctors and their patients. While pharmacies remove the names of patients before selling the records, those names are replaced with unique codes that track patients over time from doctor to doctor, according to the Vermont complaint. That means data firms could create a profile that includes a person's prescriptions as well as the names of the pharmacies and dates at which the person picked up the medications, says Latanya Sweeney, a visiting professor of computer science at Harvard.
''It ends up building a detailed prescription profile of individuals,'' says Professor Sweeney, whose research on data re-identification was cited by several briefs in the case. ''Those extended profiles tend to be very unique.''
The concern, she says, particularly in a small state like Vermont, is that a nameless prescription record could theoretically be enough to identify someone who might not want others to know that he takes, say, anti-depressants. Moreover, Professor Sweeney argues, data miners could collate those files with public information, like voter registration and hospital discharge records, to link prescriptions to specific people.
Federal health privacy regulation, she says, does not protect patient records once they have been de-identified. Nor does the law prohibit re-identification.
But IMS Health says it isn't aware of any case of re-identifying patients whose prescription records were de-identified in accordance with federal rules. The company says it doubly encrypts each patient's identity and gives the encryption keys to several third parties -- meaning that no single entity can decode a file by itself, says Kimberly Gray, chief privacy officer at IMS Health.
The company typically sells combined reports that show how many patients received a certain drug from a certain doctor, but not the specific drugstores those patients frequent, Ms. Gray says. IMS never uses public information or outside data sets to try to re-identify patients, she says, and when it does provide encoded patient histories to others for research purposes, it prohibits those third parties from making such attempts.
''We would never want to re-identify someone,'' Ms. Gray says. ''No good can come from that.''
Still, it is hard to prevent people from trying to re-identify patients, says Lee Tien, a staff lawyer at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital civil liberties group that filed a brief in support of Vermont. It would be easier, he says, if Congress passed a law that went further than Vermont's, giving people the right to consent before their encrypted prescription records were sold for marketing purposes.
''In Vermont, the doctor can decide,'' Mr. Tien says. ''But we'd prefer it if the patient were able to say, 'Don't sell my data.' ''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHE VORLET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); INTERNET PRIVACY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); BIG DATA (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (85%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); DATA MINING (77%); DATA SECURITY (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); SMARTPHONES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); PHARMACIES (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (83%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



15 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Throughout Tornado Zone, Many People Are Asking, 'How Can We Help?'

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN and KIM SEVERSON; Robbie Brown reported from Tuscaloosa, and Kim Severson from Atlanta.

 BODY:
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. -- So many contractors showed up at a high school gymnasium here on Saturday that they could not all fit. Even though the death count continued its grim climb upward in what is now the worst tornado disaster in the country since 1925, here at the epicenter people know that the rebuilding has to begin, and quickly.
It is hard to imagine what it will take to put life back together in the states torn by last week's storms. One estimate, by the risk model forecaster EQECAT, put the insured property losses between $2 billion and $5 billion. 
Still, the contractors were hoping to secure their share of three contracts the city plans to award for the cleanup. People here expect them to be worth tens or hundreds of millions of dollars to a trade still hobbled by the real estate crash and recession.
''It's an awful situation, but this is how we can help,'' said Jordan Huffstetler, 29, a general contractor who drove in from Birmingham, Ala.
On Saturday, the number of people reported killed in eight states during last week's storms rose again, to 349. In Alabama, 250 bodies have been recovered, though the hundreds of people still missing suggested that many bodies remained undiscovered.
The last time more people were killed in a series of tornadoes in the United States was March 18, 1925, when almost 700 died in a storm that raged through Illinois, Indiana and Missouri.
President Obama declared two other states, Georgia and Mississippi, federal disasters late Friday night. Although the brunt of the casualties are in Alabama, Mississippi sustained the fiercest part of the storm. The National Weather Service confirmed that a tornado ranked a rare EF5 -- the worst possible with winds as high as 205 miles per hour -- hit the northeast part of the state and contributed to the near obliteration of tiny Smithville, where 14 bodies have been found so far.
Over all, Mississippi lost 35 people to the storm, and emergency officials reported that at least 1,822 homes were damaged. Georgia, which had a tornado nearly as strong as the one in Mississippi, has recorded 15 deaths in the northern part of the state. Tennessee had 34 deaths and has asked for federal assistance.
Hundreds of thousands in several Southern states were facing a fourth day without power, and dozens of shelters remained open.
The recovery ''will be measured in inches, not miles,'' Mayor Walter Maddox of Tuscaloosa said Saturday.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency said it was working to bring trailers to the region. The plight of thousands of newly homeless people was starting to surface.
Judy Pool, 55, spent part of Sunday at community center in Tuscaloosa that had been turned into a shelter, flipping through donated clothes and shoes to find something in her size. She could get water, medical aid and food.
Her home is destroyed. She has her cellphone and her wallet. ''I'm staying with my sister until, well, I don't know until when,'' she said.
The urge to help those like Ms. Pool gripped people all over the country.
Although emergency officials have cautioned people to not simply show up with trucks or cars filled with donations, Elisabeth Omilami, executive director of the Hosea Feed The Hungry and Homeless program in Atlanta, already had a couple of truckloads of water and toiletries ready to take to churches in Alabama.
''Why would you say don't send stuff?'' she asked. ''How much can you hurt another family by giving them clothes when they don't have any?''
Other people are doing what they can. Grocery stores set up trucks in parking lots to hand out free water. Amy Audette, a special effects makeup artist in Los Angeles who grew up in Alabama, started soliciting donations of food and clothing via her Twitter account. She said she would send whatever she gets to family in the state to distribute.
Chris and Rachel Stephens, a couple in their 20s whose home was spared, cooked a batch of apple pancakes and headed to a heavily damaged Tuscaloosa neighborhood. They hung a sign -- ''Free hope pancakes for all!'' -- figuring a little comfort food might take people's minds off the emotional toll.
''Now it's starting to set in,'' Mr. Stephens said. ''Everybody's like, 'What's the next step?' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); WEATHER (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (70%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



16 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Design Magazine; TALK; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1738 words

HEADLINE: THE NANNIES NORMA RAE

BYLINE: By BARBARA EHRENREICH

 BODY:
It's the most intimate class divide in human civilization, or at least in such relatively civilized places as Manhattan and Park Slope, Brooklyn. On the one side, there is the professional couple bringing in six figures a year; on the other, the nanny or maid without whom the couple wouldn't be able to practice their professions. Conditions of employment are as variable as the individual employers are - from respectful and considerate all the way to criminally abusive. On average, a domestic worker is likely to get less than $15 an hour, no benefits and none of the credit or glory. To my knowledge anyway, there has never been a successful career woman - or man, for that matter - who's responded to being praised for ''doing it all'' by saying, ''Actually, Manuela (or Angelica or Harriet) does most of it.'' 
You don't have to be down on your knees scraping congealed creme fraiche off marble tiles to see that there's something not quite right about this picture. Ai-jen Poo was a recent Columbia University graduate in 1998 when she got incensed about the status of New York's domestic workers and started organizing them into something resembling a union. It's not that easy to organize domestic workers, even the ones who are fluent in English, because their workplaces are scattered among thousands of individual apartments and town houses and no one keeps a list of their names.
But word spread among networks of immigrant domestics, through churches and around the playgrounds frequented by nannies until, by 2010, the organization Poo helped put together, Domestic Workers United, was formidable enough to pressure the New York State legislature into passing the Domestic Workers Bill of Rights, recognizing them as legitimate workers on a par with any other wage earners, and entitled to such amenities as overtime pay, a minimum of three paid days off a year and legal protection from harassment and discrimination: not everything they need, by a long shot, but a big step up from invisibility.
My image of a union organizer, based on extensive personal experience, is a big, loud guy with a bullhorn, not a slender, soft-spoken former women's studies major whose reflexive response to a crowd is to melt into the sidelines. Nor does Ai-jen Poo look like a typical D.W.U. member, at least no more than than Jennifer Lopez looked like a housecleaner in ''Maid in Manhattan,'' and the incongruities only multiply as you get to know her. She's the daughter of Chinese immigrants, a neurobiologist and an oncologist, and her original career plan was to be not the scientist or lawyer you might expect from such a lineage but a potter.
Today Poo is the director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance, an umbrella organization that includes 33 satellites like the D.W.U. from across the country. After college, she got a job with an Asian community organization in New York, where her job was to reach out to Asian workingwomen, including housekeepers from Hong Kong. It was a Jamaican woman, though - we'll call her Alice - whose case compelled Poo to start focusing on nannies and maids, mostly immigrants from Africa, the Caribbean and Latin America. When Alice learned that Poo was interested in hearing from domestic workers, she came forward with her own story, which is, I regret to report, a not-all-that-unusual tale of slavery in the midst of urban affluence.
Alice had been lured to this country at age 16 with the promise that she would be able to go to school while working as a live-in nanny and housekeeper. Once she arrived, however, she found that school was not on the agenda - Alice's domestic duties filled her time from early morning till late at night - nor, according to Poo, did she ever see a paycheck. The couple who employed her claimed they were sending her wages straight home to her parents, and since they controlled her access to mail, both incoming and outgoing, she had no way of finding out that no money was sent. After working without pay for 16 years, and cut off from her parents, who thought she had abandoned them, Alice escaped from her ''employers'' with help from one of their three young children.
Poo was badly shaken by her story, telling me: ''I don't want to live in a society where people can treat others like that. And I certainly don't want to raise my own children in a society that doesn't value everyone's humanity.'' But she was also inspired by Alice. ''All she wanted to do was make sure that what happened to her would never happen to anyone else.''
Like the great majority of Americans - probably well over 90 percent - Poo had no personal, firsthand experience with domestic workers, since her parents hadn't had any household help. And this alone left her with a lasting sensitivity to domestic injustice, because it was her mother who really did ''do it all'' - went to graduate school in chemistry, held a job as a lab technician, studied English, cooked, cleaned and raised two daughters. Think workhorse, not Tiger Mother. ''I don't remember ever seeing her sit down and take a break or watch a movie or do anything for herself,'' Poo says. ''She was always exhausted.'' In other respects, Poo regards her father, who had been a pro-democracy activist in Chiang Kai-shek's Taiwan, as a role model. But within the family, and probably without ever realizing it, he represented the leisure class.
I fell into Poo's orbit in about 2005, my sole qualification being that I had worked as a maid with a housecleaning service for my book ''Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting by in America.'' I wasn't on the job long enough to suffer one of the usual back or knee injuries that go with that line of work - just long enough to feel the sting of humiliation when, for example, I'd be scrubbing a floor on my hands and knees while the lady of the house stood over me to make sure I didn't miss a spot. It was as a sort of honorary domestic that I started attending rallies of Domestic Workers United, marched with them on a picket line on Fifth Avenue and traveled to Albany to help lobby the notoriously comatose state legislature for the Domestic Workers Bill of Rights.
In some ways these occasions were like all the other labor events I've ever attended, whether they involved flight attendants, factory workers or truck drivers. The participants tend to favor matching union T-shirts (yellow in the D.W.U.'s case). They do the old ''What do we want? When do we want it?'' chant. They testify, often movingly, as to nasty conditions and the perpetually unmet need for ''respect.'' One New York-based domestic worker, for example, describes having to do something that sounds more like a clown act than a domestic chore: dressed in the head-to-toe white uniform that her employers insisted on, she had to take the family's dog out for walks - in a stroller. So there's plenty of righteous anger at D.W.U. events, but also something completely different, which at first I found hard to put my finger on - a kind of sweetness, an unspoken subtext of love.
Most domestic workers are savvy enough to realize they're not ''part of the family,'' as the comforting cliche goes. But, ''The Nanny Diaries'' aside, neither do they hate their employers or fantasize about hanging them by their heels from penthouse roof decks. ''One thing I've learned,'' Poo tells me, is that ''in the face of all kinds of indignities, domestic workers take so much pride in their work and love the children they care for.'' Sociologists confirm this, finding that many immigrant domestic workers leave children of their own behind in the Caribbean, Mexico or the Philippines, often for years at a time. They send their earnings to their biological children, and give their love, on a day-to-day basis, to the children they care for.
Poo cites the case of an immigrant nanny who may have loved too much. She tried to intervene when her male employer started yelling - abusively, she thought - at his 6-year-old daughter. The father pushed the nanny away, bruising her, and called her a ''dumb black bitch.'' The D.W.U. responded by picketing the family's Central Park West building, but to this day the nanny still misses ''her'' little girl.
Sometimes the love is reciprocated. Poo lists with pride all the ways that employers have helped advance the domestic workers' cause. There's a national group called Hand in Hand: The Domestic Employers Association that tries to sensitize employers to domestics' rights. Members of Jews for Racial and Economic Justice, a New York City-based organization, regularly show up at D.W.U. events, testifying about the need to treat domestics with dignity. In 2009, one of the marches the D.W.U. organized to push for the Domestic Workers Bill of Rights was led by a contingent of the children of both nannies and employers. Sometimes this looks less like class struggle and more like a great big class cuddle.
Can there really be ''peace and justice in the home'' - the affluent, domestic-employing home, that is - as the D.W.U. envisions? Certainly it's not in the interests of employers to have their nannies seething with repressed rage. But, just to be a little utopian about it, will the day ever come when nannies and maids are paid so well and treated with so much respect that an upper-middle-class parent might suggest in all seriousness that his or her daughter consider a career in domestic service?
For the time being, the gap between employer and domestic - or between the couple that charges out to Wall Street every morning and the woman who stays behind to change diapers and sheets - is wide enough to make even Poo a little queasy. When I ask her what she would do if she and her partner have a child, she says that of course she'll go on working; currently she's helping introduce a project to generate three million new home health care jobs to meet the needs of the baby boomers. So will she hire a nanny? ''No,'' she tells me. ''My job is to represent domestics' interests, and it might be hard to do that as an employer.''
Then, after staring for a moment at the noodle soup we're eating in a tiny Thai place near her office, she ventures a more personal response: ''Besides, I couldn't handle that mixture of intimacy and inequality.'' She and her partner will seek out a co-op child-care arrangement, and they'll continue to clean their own apartment.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tiger organizer: Ai-jen Poo in her office at the National Domestic Workers Alliance, above, and at a New York rally.
Domestics' partner: From top: Poo speaks out in Washington, D.C., in 2010
N.D.W.A. members march in San Francisco in 2009.
Working class hero: From left: Poo with members and supporters of N.D.W.A. in Washington, D.C.
D.W.U. members in their yellow T-shirts. (PHOTOGRAPHS MAX VADUKUL
ZERO + MARIA CORNEJO DRESS. GO TO BARNEYS.COM. FRANK GEHRY FOR TIFFANY & COMPANY EARRINGS. GO TO TIFFANY.COM. IPPOLITA BANGLES. GO TO IPPOLITA.COM. PAIGE NOVICK RINGS. GO TO IKRAM.COM.
HAIR BY CARMEL BIANCO AT RAYBROWNPRO.COM.
MAKEUP BY SHAWNELLE PRESTIDGE FOR TARTE AT RAYBROWNPRO.COM.
 DOMESTICWORKERS.ORG.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (76%); OVERTIME (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); NEUROSCIENCE (60%); ONCOLOGY (60%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



17 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 KIA OPTIMA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: The Family Show-Off, Offering More for Less

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

 BODY:
INGRATITUDE and a grating impertinence are something many parents have come to expect from their high-maintenance subunits, but challenging one's parent is less common in the automotive world.
One example of such churlish corporate behavior is the 2011 Kia Optima, which strongly challenges the Sonata made by Kia's parent, Hyundai.
This is not simply an attempt to annoy an older relative, for the Optima is picking on the entire field of midsize sedans. Its targets include the Honda Accord, Toyota Camry, Ford Fusion, Nissan Altima and Chevrolet Malibu. What's more, the Optima is likely to have some success if Kia continues to show improvement in its quality and reliability.
While the Sonata and the Optima are corporate cousins, the companies stress that they are hardly identical. Although the cars are built on the same basic architecture and use essentially the same major components, engineers for each company tweaked each car to their own performance targets. 
The two are also assembled far apart, the Optima in South Korea and the Sonata in Montgomery, Ala.
The cars are also far apart on pricing. My Optima test car was an upscale EX with a 6-speed automatic transmission, a 2.4-liter 4-cylinder engine producing 200 horsepower and a long list of standard equipment including leather upholstery. The starting price was $23,190; the options were a $2,000 navigation package that required the addition of a $2,250 Premium Package.
The premium package offers not only heated front seats, but rear seat heaters as well. Further, the front seats can be cooled just like those in high-end luxury sedans. The package also includes a heated steering wheel and a two-section panoramic sunroof. With all that, the window sticker was $27,440.
None of the Optima's competitors can match that level of self-indulgence, much less the price. The Sonata Limited comes closest by offering heated front and rear seats and a single sunroof; it costs about $900 more than the Optima EX. Hyundai intends to respond: on its 2012 Sonata, the panoramic sunroof will be standard on the Limited model, a spokesman said.
The price difference is even greater for the other competitors in the class.
There are two other versions of the Optima. One is a sporty model with a turbocharged 2-liter 4-cylinder rated at 274 horsepower. It starts at $26,690.
A hybrid is promised this summer. Kia hasn't announced the hybrid's pricing, but predicts the E.P.A. rating will be 35 m.p.g. in the city and 40 m.p.g. on the highway.
While the Optima has a smaller price tag than its rivals, its physical dimensions are similar and its interior room and cargo space are competitive.
Where the Optima stands out is visually. The interior and exterior have an upscale flair that is missing in a segment where the main mission is everyday practicality. The style of the appointments and the upscale features convey a sense of fiscal well-being far beyond what one would expect for the sticker price, providing succor in troubling economic times.
The controls are simple and intuitive, and storage space is adequate. The twin sunroofs are a perk de soleil, really brightening the interior.
The navigation system, while easy to use, showed it is subject either to fits of disorientation or a wicked sense of whimsy. In Vermont, I left the Interstate to get fuel. Rather than tell me to make a U-turn to get back on the highway, it sent me along three miles of tiny dirt roads that, I suspect, were last used by Roger's Rangers. At last I passed the gas station where I had stopped and there rejoined the Interstate.
Like all the vehicles in this segment, the Optima comes with the expected safety features: side-impact air bags, active front head restraints, side air curtains, antilock brakes and electronic stability control. The Optima (as well as the Sonata, Fusion and Malibu) is rated a Top Safety Pick by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety for its performance in crash tests and its electronic stability control.
The news from behind the wheel is just as positive. A drive on a rough road demonstrates two things. One is an extremely solid structure that refuses to concede weakness with even a small quiver. The other is the suspension's ability to keep sharp impacts from jostling the occupants.
The handling is pretty much what you'd expect from a competent front-wheel-drive family sedan. Sweeping turns are a pleasure, but if you try to hustle through a tight corner you are quickly made aware of all the weight in the front; the Optima feels nose heavy. There is one way to make it change direction a little more quickly: Lift off the gas heading into the corner so that the nose edges a bit deeper into the turn.
One minor downside is a soft brake pedal. Also, the Optima is a little slow to settle down on an undulating surface, resulting in an extra bobble or two.
The steering has reasonable weight and is predictable, but it lacks feeling, that hard-to-define sense of a partnership with a vehicle. And there is a slight vagueness on center -- when you point the Optima straight ahead. The Optima can't match the steering of the Fusion, which may be the best in this class.
A 6-speed manual is available only on the entry-level LX version ($19,690). Everything else, including the sporty turbo version, gets a 6-speed automatic. All versions except the hybrid have direct gasoline injection, an increasingly popular technology intended to provide more power and better fuel economy.
Not only does the standard Optima have more horsepower than its main competitors, it also weighs less than all of them except the Altima.
The 6-speed automatic is impressive. It is quick to figure out when it needs to downshift and it does so with finesse. Upshifts are smoothly discreet and appropriately timed. The transmission can be shifted manually by those who want to be a little more involved or are dealing with mountain roads.
The Optima's strong, flexible powertrain carries an Environmental Protection Agency rating of 24 m.p.g. city and 34 m.p.g. highway. Even with more power, the Optima manages to beat its main competitors by 1 m.p.g. either in the city or on the highway. That's nice for bragging rights, but inconsequential in the real world.
One consideration for consumers is Kia's reliability record, which trails its competitors. For years the company fought to stay out of the lowest ranks in the reliability and dependability surveys by J. D. Power & Associates. But there have been signs of significant improvement: in Power's 2011 Vehicle Dependability Study -- which looked at how 2008 models held up -- Kia ranked only slightly below the industry average. But it was still well behind Toyota, Honda and Ford.
Another thing to consider is a Kia recall in March that raised questions about corporate judgment. In that action, Kia recalled about 70,000 Optimas from the 2006-8 model years because the shift cable could become detached, causing the driver to think the automatic was in Park when it was not.
The worrisome thing was Kia's admission to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration that it had known about the defect for four years but decided a recall was unnecessary -- because, it said, drivers would notice that the shift lever felt different and would therefore use the parking brake. Kia announced the recall only after the safety agency began an investigation.
That morality play aside, the Optima is a competent and extremely pleasant package, with style and price at the core of its allure.
INSIDE TRACK: Charming insolence.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PRODIGY: Redesigned Optima has an upscale flair and some features not found in other midsize family sedans. (AU1)
 KISSING COUSIN: Optima shares components with the Hyundai Sonata, but is tuned differently. (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); PARENTS (90%); SEDANS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (55%) ALABAMA, USA (55%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



18 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY CRITIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Concrete Farm Grows Chard (Callaloo, Too)

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER. 
E-mail: metropolitan@nytimes.com; Ariel Kaminer is on leave.

 BODY:
We here at the Incompetent Gardeners Association of Greater New York can only dream of making a patch of land look as good as the Hoyt Street Garden did last Sunday. The garden, a postage-stamp-size community effort at Hoyt Street and Atlantic Avenue in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, had about 250 yellow daffodils in full bloom that day against a pachysandra background, with five benches beckoning. The word ''oasis'' certainly came to mind.
Almost anyone can grow a daffodil; you stick a bulb in the ground in the fall, and in the spring a daffodil appears. Yet if we in the Incompetent Gardeners Association of Greater New York -- Igagny (ih-GAG-nee), we call it, and yes, we are also founders of the Union of Lousy Acronym Creators -- had attempted the task, the Hoyt Street Garden would have had maybe three daffodils, and two of them would have been bent facedown into the mud. 
Happily, we were nowhere near the Hoyt Street Garden last fall; Margaret Cusack, president of the Hoyt Street Association, and some volunteers were, and they apparently knew what they were doing. More than that, though, each daffodil here tells two stories.
The bulbs were provided by the New Yorkers for Parks Daffodil Project, which for years now has encouraged daffodil planting as a sort of citywide 9/11 memorial. And then there were those volunteers. Boerum Hill, of course, is one of Brooklyn's more gentrified neighborhoods, but for her daffodil planting, Ms. Cusack made a point of recruiting residents of the Y.W.C.A. nearby on Atlantic, who are mostly single women and are decidedly not in the comfortable-income bracket.
''It was really just a nice coming together,'' she said -- a throwback, as it were, to the all-for-one atmosphere that took hold in the 1970s and helped rescue the neighborhood in the first place. ''We sort of held together as a community because it was so difficult to be here,'' Ms. Cusack, a resident since 1973, said of those times.
Now that Boerum Hill is desirable, Ms. Cusack said, it's actually harder to find volunteers. Some will be on hand, however, on Sunday, running her association's busy plant sale, an annual event that supports not only the garden but also things like a mini-grant program for small projects that benefit the community in some way: a security camera, a tutoring program.
We Igagnyers will not be buying any of the Hoyt group's plants because we would only kill them. Nor will we be doing what countless other community gardeners will surely be doing this weekend, which is getting the vegetable-growing season started. We tried to grow some vegetables once. The predominant color on our tomatoes was black.
Others apparently don't have that problem, as an outfit called Farming Concrete learned last year when it set out to try to quantify how much produce is being grown in New York's community gardens. It asked gardeners to record the number of vegetable plants they had, and weigh their crops. The resulting data is downright dismaying to us Igagnyers but kind of astounding to anyone else: the 67 community gardens that participated -- covering a total of just 1.7 acres -- racked up 87,700 pounds of edible stuff. That produce was worth at least $200,000, the group concluded.
''By calculating the area used for food production as well as the weight and dollar value of the food grown, we hope to highlight community gardens as a critical land use,'' said Mara Gittleman, an adjunct lecturer and farm assistant at Kingsborough Community College who conducted the study with Eric Brelsford. The social role of community gardens has been much remarked upon, she said, but their economic value hasn't been well documented. And when development pressure threatens the city's 500 community gardens, as it does periodically, the economics are everything.
We at Igagny, though, are still trying to wrap our heads around the not-quite-so-high-concept parts of the study. Like: 29,682 pounds of tomatoes. And 8,322 pounds of cucumbers. And 5,505 pounds of chard. Chard? Who knew.
Ms. Gittleman said all sorts of amusing anecdotes emerged from the statistics, and the act of compiling them. Brooklyn gardeners, for instance, grow lots of callaloo, a Caribbean green. In the Bronx, someone was actually growing sugar cane. (''Some gardeners get away with growing warm-weather crops here because of the urban island heat effect,'' Ms. Gittleman explained.) Gardeners at West 104th Street in Manhattan coordinated their peach weigh-in and recorded 135 pounds in a single day. The East End Community Garden in Brooklyn ''might as well be a farm,'' as Ms. Gittleman put it; a grower there recorded 51 pounds of corn in one weigh-in. In the Bronx, a beekeeper added his 362 pounds of honey to the study.
To us Igagnyers, all this seems a bit like showing off. And apparently the epidemic of green-thumbedness is being passed on to the next generation. Last year the High School for Public Service in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, started a quarter-acre farm as an educational tool. Elizabeth Bee Ayer, the farm manager, said that in the first year, students grew about 10,000 pounds of food, including 755 pounds of eggplant, in three varieties. ''It was so hot last year that it was a really good year for eggplant,'' she said. Indeed.
All of this -- the daffodils, the vegetables, the broad sense of accomplishment -- has left us Igagnyers quite impressed, but also quite glum. It's the same feeling you get when you walk by the glass front of a gym and look in on a bunch of people way more buff than you are. We intend to go drown our sorrows in a chard, callaloo and eggplant salad. As soon as we can grow one.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 8, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, the City Critic column last Sunday about community gardens misspelled the surname of the manager of a small farm started by the High School for Public Service in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. She is Elizabeth Bee Ayer, not Ayers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: URBAN CROPS: Mara Gittleman laying soil at Kingsborough Community College. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
 MANY GARDENERS: Margaret Cusack at the Hoyt Street Garden in Boerum Hill. For help planting daffodils, Ms. Cusack made a point of recruiting residents of the Y.W.C.A. nearby on Atlantic, who are mostly single women and are decidedly not in the comfortable-income bracket. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



19 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Two Owners In Distress, And One Assist

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Frank McCourt, the Los Angeles Dodgers' owner, was seething Wednesday as he argued that Commissioner Bud Selig had improperly seized his team. He had just come from meeting Major League Baseball officials and was aggrieved that he would not be going home with his team back in his hands. As he spoke, Steve Soboroff, the Dodgers' vice chairman, patted his boss on the back for moral support.
McCourt compared Selig's treatment of him with his handling of the Mets, another financially distressed team. He never mentioned the Mets, but in one phrase -- ''We have never asked for a single penny of emergency financing from Major League Baseball'' -- he was saying: we did not ask for a loan, but Selig took us over as if by eminent domain; he gave the Mets a loan but did not grab them. 
Selig approved a $25 million loan to the Mets last November when they faced a cash crunch yet left the principal owner Fred Wilpon alone to fix his financial woes. With the Dodgers, Selig invoked his ''best interests of baseball'' powers, installed a monitor, Tom Schieffer, to run the team, and refused to approve a local cable-television deal with Fox that McCourt said would guarantee long-term stability.
Selig's approaches to the Mets and the Dodgers reflect the breadth of his powers -- he can do what he deems necessary to enforce baseball's ''best interests'' as he sees them -- and his ties to the owners. He and Wilpon have been friends for 30 years. McCourt arrived in baseball in 2004 but has never pierced the inner sanctum around Selig. McCourt said last week that Selig was ignoring him.
Selig appears to regard Wilpon as a trustworthy, solid citizen, but McCourt as a problem child in need of adult supervision. Wilpon and Saul Katz, the Mets' other owner, are fighting a $1 billion lawsuit against them by the trustee for victims of Bernard L. Madoff's fraud. The trustee accuses them of using illicit profits from their Madoff accounts to fuel their sports and real estate empire. Selig is pleased that Wilpon and Katz -- who say they are victims of evidence fabricated or misrepresented by the trustee -- are trying to sell nearly half the team to raise up to $200 million and feels it unnecessary to step in to force them to do any more.
But in taking control of the Dodgers, Selig has said that McCourt is not fit, at least now, to run the team. Selig has never taken such a drastic step against an owner. But no previous owner has been party to a divorce like McCourt's, which revealed that he and his estranged wife, Jamie, used $108 million in Dodgers money from 2004 to 2009 to finance their lavish lifestyles. McCourt wrote a letter to Selig recently apologizing to him for the embarrassment he had caused.
Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College who has written a book on Selig, said that Wilpon has done nothing to shame Major League Baseball. But he said McCourt had embarrassed the Dodgers by putting two of his sons on the team payroll at a combined $600,000 a year when one was in school and the other had a job; paying a spiritualist to send positive energy to the team; and using Dodgers assets to finance personal purchases. Zimbalist added that Wilpon had not ''decapitalized the Mets'' but that McCourt ''was running the team dry.''
On Friday, Rob Manfred, a Selig deputy who is an executive vice president of Major League Baseball, gave voice to the deep skepticism about McCourt.
''There is no owner,'' he said, ''who, during the period 2004 to 2011, that we've spent more time with on his business problems, his business issues and his desire to be treated differently under applicable rules, than Frank McCourt.''
Selig welcomed McCourt as an owner in 2004 despite the level of debt needed to finance the purchase. Perhaps he is feeling commissioner's regret seven years later. He refused McCourt's requests to borrow $200 million from Fox yet learned that McCourt had taken an advance from Fox last year on his 2011 television rights; most recently, he received a personal loan of $30 million from Fox that McCourt said was preferable to borrowing from his fellow owners (and showed how strongly Fox wanted to retain Dodgers rights for many years in the future).
Baseball has never been caught in the middle of a divorce like the McCourts' -- or had an owner who was the target of a lawsuit like the one involving Wilpon and Katz. As he awaits a decision or settlement in the Mets' legal problems, Selig is not intervening.
But baseball has been receiving letters from Jamie McCourt insisting that she owns half the team and that nothing can be done without her approval. One of the points of issue is the pending 17-year deal with Fox that Frank McCourt values at $3 billion. It would yield $385 million immediately through a loan from Fox to its regional sports network, Prime Ticket, which carries the team's games. Under the agreement, the Dodgers would receive 35 percent of Prime in the deal.
But according to experts on sports business, Selig is showing his wariness about a huge upfront payment that would diminish the annual rights fee that Prime would pay the Dodgers -- which a future owner would not be able to renegotiate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bud Selig, above, took the Dodgers ''as if by eminent domain,'' according to the owner Frank McCourt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY PHELPS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); APPROVALS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMINENT DOMAIN (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); LITIGATION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



20 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
The Consequences of Eviction
QMy landlord is selling the town house I rent in. He asked if I would leave five months before the lease expires, and I agreed. His lawyer has asked me to submit to an eviction proceeding that will end in a settlement with my agreeing to those terms. My concern is that this ''eviction'' could affect my ability to get another apartment. Is this possible?
A ''Yes,'' said Robert Sokolski, a Manhattan lawyer who represents tenants. ''Being a defendant in an eviction proceeding presents a grave danger to the tenant's ability to rent another apartment.'' The state provides Housing Court eviction case information to tenant screening bureaus, which in turn sell screening reports to landlords. When a tenant is a defendant in an eviction proceeding, the database indicates neither the merits of the case nor the outcome of the proceedings, Mr. Sokolski said. That could result in the tenant's being blacklisted as undesirable even if he or she was not at fault, won the case, or had agreed in advance to the eviction. If the landlord insists on the eviction proceeding, he added, the writer should insist that the landlord start the proceeding against ''John Doe.'' That way, the case can be settled without the tenant's name appearing on a blacklist. 
The Function of Co-op Deposits
QA couple of weeks ago, a lawyer said in this column that a buyer who lost his deposit on an apartment could not deduct the loss on his tax returns. It seems to me that if the co-op rejects the applicant, the deposit itself should be returned. What's to stop a co-op from just repeatedly rejecting buyers and keeping the deposits?
A Steven Sladkus, a co-op and condo lawyer, says that a deposit paid on the signing of a sale contract is intended to protect the seller, not the co-op corporation. And, depending on the terms of the particular sale contract, if the board rejected the sale, the deposit would either be returned to the buyer or, in some cases, retained by the seller, in exchange for the seller's having taken the apartment off the market while the application was pending.
Researching Rent History
QFor almost two years I have been subleasing an apartment in Manhattan that I believe is rent stabilized. I estimate that the original tenant is making a profit on my sublease, and he is now trying to raise the rent another 10 percent for next year. I do not believe he has reported our current arrangement to the building management. Do I have any rights?
A David Ng, a Manhattan lawyer who represents tenants, says that the writer can determine if the apartment is rent regulated by going to the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, showing them proof he is renting the apartment and requesting the rent registration history. The registration should show the present status of the apartment and the latest legal rent. If the apartment is rent stabilized and the rent registered is less than the rent paid by the tenant, the writer can either file an overcharge complaint seeking triple the overcharge, or he can stop paying rent and then ask for the triple damages and his lawyer fees. The first option usually can be pursued without a lawyer, but withholding the rent generally requires an understanding of the court rules and is better handled through a lawyer.
Address questions to Real Estate Q&A, The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, or by e-mail to realestateqa @nytimes.com. Answers can be given only through the column.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVICTION (92%); LAWYERS (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



21 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; NEXT STOP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Manchester's Music Scene Sheds Its Old Skin

BYLINE: By CHARLY WILDER

 BODY:
A COUPLE of decades ago, if you were visiting Manchester you were probably there for business, or perhaps because of familial commitments. But while staggering unemployment and urban decay didn't inspire much in the way of tourism to this post-industrial English city, it did inspire a movement of disaffected youth whose music still resonates. Indeed, while the grim years that inspired the depressive romanticism of bands like Joy Division and the Smiths have made way for large-scale urban development, Manchester's prolific musical energy hasn't dissipated.
Today, in the once-derelict Northern Quarter, record stores, live venues and sonic-minded galleries and pubs hold dominion. Dive bar jukeboxes are impeccably curated wonder cabinets. And even in the gleaming, rebuilt glass-and-steel city center, it's not uncommon to hear rare late-'60s Northern Soul tracks or jagged '90s post-rock songs booming out of some garishly lighted all-night convenience store. Looking over the last 40 or so years, one can see Manchester as a kind of English New Orleans -- a moody hedonist's stomp defined by water, weather and, above all else, music. 
Some 20 years after the Mancunian blend of indie and house music championed by bands like Stone Roses and Happy Mondays left their Day-Glo imprint on pop (one felt deeply in the work of recent indie headliners like Hot Chip and the now-defunct LCD Soundsystem) a wave of new clubs and venues is trading on ''Madchester'' nostalgia. At the same time, up-and-coming local acts like Egyptian Hip Hop, Young British Artists and Everything Everything are garnering attention abroad, while the next generation of local independent promoters experiments with new models, spaces and sounds in an effort to define the city's latest zeitgeist.
''It's a very active city,'' said Mark Carlin, a director of Islington Mill, a multipurpose cultural site. ''Music-wise, there are so many independent promoters and interesting acts. But at the same time, it's close-knit. Quite quickly, you can get involved.''
In the '80s, Manchester's musical hub was Hacienda, a nightclub that hosted not only the city's best bands, but also overseas acts like Madonna. At least in part responsible for introducing Europe to house music, by the mid-'90s, Hacienda was a notorious drug den and was shut down in 1997. Today, the musical heartbeat of the city might just be Islington Mill.
Housed in a former cotton mill, Islington opened in 2004 in Salford, a borough 10 minutes outside the city center, and has since evolved from a squat-like music collective to a legitimate cultural center encompassing a club space, over 50 artist studios, two galleries, an art academy and a recording studio. Since it opened, Islington has provided a stage, a community and sometimes even a literal home for numerous local bands, including the Ting Tings, who went on to top the charts in Britain and sell millions of albums worldwide. (The band's cat still resides in an adjoining building where Islington's founder, Bill Campbell, lives with his boyfriend, the site's co-director Morry Carlin.)
Dave Haslam, a celebrated Mancunian D.J., journalist and author, describes Islington as ''one of the spiritual homes of the post-Hacienda generation.'' But for Mr. Campbell, the project has largely been about breaking away from Manchester's beatified salad days.
''We tend to avoid bands that sound like the Smiths or Joy Division, and you do get a lot of that,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''And Oasis, which is even worse.''
It may be a source of frustration to some, but the market for nostalgic fare is high, particularly among first-time visitors to the city, many of whom see Manchester as a kind of pop mecca. Post-punk pilgrims can quite literally follow in their heroes' footsteps on walking tours led by old-timers like Craig Gill, the drummer for the Madchester standouts Inspiral Carpets. The tours cover everything from the Salford Lads Club, immortalized on the sleeve of the Smiths' 1986 album ''The Queen is Dead,'' to Dry 201, a local bar where Shaun Ryder of the Happy Mondays and Oasis' Liam Gallagher are supposedly still barred.
Those looking to re-enact the raves of yesteryear can line up at Fac251, a nightclub owned by Peter Hook, former bassist for New Order and Joy Division, and Ben Kelly, the designer of Hacienda. Fac251 opened last February in the former headquarters of Factory Records, a label responsible not only for bringing the world bands like Joy Division, James and Happy Mondays, but also the groundbreaking graphic work of Peter Saville.
Designed to spotlight the cold functionality the name implies, Fac251 is three floors of concrete brick, flickering '80s-style neon and smoke machines. A portrait of Tony Wilson, who was a founding owner both of Factory Records and Hacienda, hangs above the entrance. With retro sets by local D.J.'s like Hook and Haslam, the club not only cashes in on the names and sounds of Madchester's heyday but also tries to capture its full sensory experience. Of course, there's more than a little irony in the fact that a club scene born of working-class disaffection and built in opposition to corporate disco is now getting a slick commercial repackaging.
Nostalgia also reigns at the long-running nightclub South, which last year introduced its own Ben Kelly-designed sound system. At South, as at Fac251, the sound is bracing, the crowds are slightly bug-eyed and the coat check lines are infuriating. But, on a recent Saturday night, when a set from the resident D.J. Clint Boon (also of Inspiral Carpets) climaxed with the Smiths' swooning anthem ''How Soon is Now,'' and the entire dance floor sang along in unison, it was easy to feel the love.
A spot making an impact on the live-music scene, the Deaf Institute is a three-tiered multiplatform cultural venue that opened in 2008 in an actual former institute for the deaf. Yet both the twee-decadent decor and the live-music roster -- which has included the Brooklyn-based noise-pop duo Sleigh Bells -- are nothing if not contemporary. Student-heavy throngs fill the domed brick ballroom space under an oversize disco ball for the venue's popular club nights, like ''Guilty Pleasures,'' an ode to all things pop, held on the first Saturday of every month. Notably absent from the Deaf Institute's schedule is a night devoted to Madchester classics.
''You have to acknowledge your own history, but you also don't want to be banging on about it every day,'' said Jay Taylor, director of the Ruby Lounge, another ambitious live-music club that has opened in recent years in the Northern Quarter. ''The way we're going to become a world-class city isn't by becoming a heritage museum. That's Liverpool's job.''
The Northern Quarter has been at the crest of the city's wave of gentrification, which began after the city received some $:83 million (about $137 million) in public funds to rebuild after an I.R.A. bombing devastated the city center in 1996. Though this new affluence has meant rent hikes and a preponderance of prefab loft apartments and chain hotels, it has also helped fuel the neighborhood's cultural engine. In the age of MP3's, Oldham Street is still lined with independent record stores like the expertly staffed Piccadilly Records and Vinyl Exchange, where the selection is comprehensive enough to require sections like ''Early Belgian Rave,'' ''Happy Hardcore Freeform'' and ''Norwegian Balearic Beats.''
In the Northern Quarter, music also thrives in less expected locales, like the newly opened Soup Kitchen, a converted counter cantina where the neighborhood's vintage-clad art set can dig into updated comfort food like sweet potato and feta lasagna while listening to D.J.'s spin everything from dubstep to psych-folk. Soup Kitchen also boasts a popular bar, an underground event space and an on-site indie publishing house.
''People are putting on shows in shops, galleries, houses, churches, anywhere they can get away with it legally -- or illegally,'' said Mr. Taylor of Ruby Lounge. ''The gap between being a world-class city and what Manchester actually is, we make up for with our loud voice.''
IF YOU GO
Islington Mill (James Street; 44-794-764-9896; islingtonmill.com).
Fac251 (112-118 Princess Street; 44-161-272-7251; factorymanchester.com).
Manchester Music Tours (44-795-824-6917; .manchestermusictours.com)
South (4A South King Street; 44-161-831-7756; tokyoindustries.com/south).
Deaf Institute (135 Grosvenor Street; 44-161-276-9350; thedeafinstitute.co.uk).
Ruby Lounge (34 High Street; 44-161-834-1392; therubylounge.org).
Piccadilly Records (53 Oldham Street; 44-161-839-8008; piccadillyrecords.com).
Vinyl Exchange (18 Oldham Street; 44-161-228-1122; vinylexchange.co.uk).
Soup Kitchen (31-33 Spear Street; 44-161-236-5100; soup-kitchen.co.uk).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEFT: A new generation of musical acts has risen at Manchester spots like Fac251. RIGHT Islington Mill is in a former cotton mill. TOP AND BELOW: Another space, the Deaf Institute, is in a former institute for the deaf. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JONATHAN PLAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CITIES (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); DRINKING PLACES (74%); RAP MUSIC (71%); MUSIC STORES (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (94%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (94%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) ENGLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



22 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: QADDAFI SURVIVES A NATO AIRSTRIKE THAT KILLS A SON

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Kareem Fahim reported from Benghazi, and David D. Kirkpatrick from Cairo. C. J. Chivers contributed reporting from Misurata, Libya, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.

 BODY:
BENGHAZI, Libya -- The government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi said he survived an airstrike in Tripoli late Saturday night that killed one of his sons and three grandchildren, in the sharpest intensification yet of the NATO air campaign intended to pressure the Libyan leader from power.
The son, Seif al-Arab Muammar el-Qaddafi, 29, and the grandchildren, all said to be younger than 12, were possibly the first confirmed casualties in the airstrikes on the Libyan capital. And while the deaths could not be independently verified, the campaign against Libya's most densely populated areas raised new questions about how broadly NATO is interpreting its United Nations mandate to protect civilians.
It is the second airstrike in seven days to hit a location intimately close to the Libyan leader, following a midnight attack last week that destroyed an office building in his compound where he and his aides sometimes work. 
In a news conference early Sunday morning in Tripoli, a Qaddafi government spokesman called the strike an illegal attack. ''This was a direct operation to assassinate the leader of this country,'' said the spokesman, Moussa Ibrahim. ''This is not permitted by international law. It is not permitted by any moral code or principle.'' He said that the colonel and his wife, who were staying at the house along with ''friends and family,'' were not hurt.
American and NATO officials have said they are not seeking to kill Colonel Qaddafi, and some have suggested it might not be very easy. But frustrated by the evasion and resilience of Colonel Qaddafi's military, NATO has pledged to step up its strikes on the broader instruments of his power, including state television facilities and command centers in the capital.
In a news release, the NATO mission's operational commander, Lt. Gen. Charles Bouchard, said he was aware of the reports of Qaddafi family deaths but called them unconfirmed. He added: ''All NATO's targets are military in nature and have been clearly linked to the Qaddafi regime's systematic attacks on the Libyan population and populated areas. We do not target individuals.''
A NATO official in Naples, Italy, reached by e-mail and responding on condition of anonymity, said that allied planners had not known Qaddafi family members were in the building that was attacked, which the official described as a command and control center. The official would not specify the nationality of the aircraft or pilots that carried out the strike.
In a video broadcast by the satellite channel Al Jazeera, Libyan officials showed reporters what they said was the destroyed house, a large crater, crumbled concrete and twisted metal, and someone dusting off what appeared to be an unexploded bomb.
It is not the first time Colonel Qaddafi has survived such a close call. In 1986, the United States struck his compound in retaliation for a terrorist attack on a German nightclub frequented by American service members. Colonel Qaddafi has incorporated his survival into his cult of personality, preserving the wreckage of the building as a ''Museum of Resistance'' and erecting a statue of a giant fist grabbing an American warplane.
Although several of Colonel Qaddafi's seven sons and one daughter play major roles in the Libyan economy and government (including an older brother with a similar name, Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi), the son reported killed had been considered a black sheep, believed to spend much of his time in Munich. Many Libyans said they had never seen his picture. In 2007, the German newspaper Der Spiegel reported that he had been briefly detained by the Munich police after getting into a fight with a nightclub bouncer; no charges were filed.
In Benghazi, the de facto rebel capital in eastern Libya, and in Misurata, a western city that Colonel Qaddafi's forces have besieged for months, celebratory gunfire rang out and explosions could be heard.
But even then, doubts lingered in Benghazi about whether the news was true: in interviews, residents said they were happy but suspected a ploy by Colonel Qaddafi to win sympathy. Ramadan el-Sheikhy, who said his brother was killed in one of Colonel Qaddafi's prisons, said any sympathy was misplaced. ''I was truly happy at the news,'' he said. ''Hopefully, he felt the pain of having a relative killed.''
Earlier Saturday, NATO officials had rejected an offer by Colonel Qaddafi to call a cease-fire and negotiate as false. The proposal was delivered in a rambling and often defiant speech, broadcast over Libyan state television, in which Colonel Qaddafi insisted he would never leave Libya.
''Come France, Italy, U.K., America, come, we'll negotiate with you,'' Colonel Qaddafi said. ''You lie and say I'm killing my own people. Show us the bodies.''
The speech, which was broadcast at about 2:30 a.m. Saturday, was the latest in a series of proclamations from the Libyan leader, and it was made as NATO forces said they would broaden their list of targets to include palaces, communication centers and other administrative buildings that Colonel Qaddafi relies on to maintain power.
Colonel Qaddafi repeated his assertions that the rebels belonged to Al Qaeda or were terrorists and mercenaries, even as he appealed to them to lay down their weapons.
''Qaddafi doesn't have the power, he doesn't have the position to leave,'' he said of himself. ''With my rifle, I will fight for my country.''
There were few signs that he intended to ease the military pressure on his opponents. A rebel military spokesman said that Qaddafi forces began an assault early Saturday on the eastern towns of Jalu and Awjilah, about 120 miles south of the city of Ajdabiya, attacking in trucks mounted with antiaircraft guns and Grad rockets.
The spokesman, Col. Ahmed Omar Bani, said 5 civilians had been killed in the fighting and 10 had been wounded.
The attack, which could not immediately be confirmed, seemed to follow an emerging pattern in the conflict in which the rebels have stepped up their resistance in the west -- in the Nefusa mountain region, along the Tunisian border and in the strategic port city of Misurata. At the same time, Colonel Qaddafi's forces have made harassing raids on poorly defended towns near the eastern oil fields in recent weeks, at times straining the rebels' efforts to keep producing oil.
The rebels have said that in the coming days they will appoint a new defense minister to replace Omar al-Hariri, a former political prisoner who occupied a largely ceremonial role in the rebels' transitional government. They were hoping that the appointment of a civilian would impose a measure of organization on an inexperienced fighting force that has been plagued by setbacks on the eastern front and infighting in its upper ranks.
Fighting continued for Misurata, and early Saturday, large explosions on the outskirts shook the city. Rebels later said they were NATO airstrikes.
The pro-Qaddafi forces resumed shelling and firing rockets into the city in the morning and again late at night. At least 15 people were reported killed, including at least five rebel fighters, an old man who was struck by shrapnel, and a young father of four children.
The young man's children and his wife were all wounded. They huddled at a Red Crescent clinic, unaware he was dead. ''It is not easy to tell them,'' said Absalom Essid, who stood at the door to the room where the dead man's wife was being treated.
At another clinic, the wounded included a baby girl who appeared to be about 10 months old and suffered a broken leg. She was teary-eyed with a pacifier in her mouth as doctors prepared to set the bone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Libyan government officials gave a tour of the house they said was hit by a NATO airstrike in Tripoli late Saturday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAHMUD TURKIA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGE) (A1)
Libyan rebels and citizens celebrated Saturday in Misurata after hearing reports that Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's youngest son was killed in Tripoli. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Colonel Qaddafi, in a speech broadcast at 2:30 a.m. Saturday, offered to work on a cease-fire with the Libyan rebels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBYAN STATE TELEVISION, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (68%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (63%); ASSASSINATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



23 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Reconcilable Differences

BYLINE: By ERIC FONER. 
Eric Foner is the DeWitt Clinton professor of history at Columbia University. His most recent book, ''The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery,'' is the winner of this year's Pulitzer Prize in history.

 BODY:
THE UNION WAR
By Gary W. Gallagher
Illustrated. 215 pp. Harvard University Press. $27.95.
Among the enduring mysteries of the American Civil War is why millions of Northerners were willing to fight to preserve the nation's unity. It is not difficult to understand why the Southern states seceded in 1860 and 1861. As the Confederacy's founders explained ad infinitum, they feared that Abraham Lincoln's election as president placed the future of slavery in jeopardy. But why did so few Northerners echo the refrain of Horace Greeley, the editor of The New York Tribune: ''Erring sisters, go in peace''?
The latest effort to explain this deep commitment to the nation's survival comes from Gary W. Gallagher, the author of several highly regarded works on Civil War military history. In ''The Union War,'' Gallagher offers not so much a history of wartime patriotism as a series of meditations on the meaning of the Union to Northerners, the role of slavery in the conflict and how historians have interpreted (and in his view misinterpreted) these matters. 
The Civil War, Gallagher announces at the outset, was ''a war for Union that also killed slavery.'' Emancipation was an outcome (an ''astounding'' outcome, Lincoln remarked in his second Inaugural Address) but, Gallagher insists, it always ''took a back seat'' to the paramount goal of saving the Union. Most Northerners, he says, remained indifferent to the plight of the slaves. They embraced emancipation only when they concluded it had become necessary to win the war. They fought because they regarded the United States as a unique experiment in democracy that guaranteed political liberty and economic opportunity in a world overrun by tyranny. Saving the Union, in the words of Secretary of State William H. Seward, meant ''the saving of popular government for the world.''
At a time when only half the population bothers to vote and many Americans hold their elected representatives in contempt, Gallagher offers a salutary reminder of the power of democratic ideals not simply to Northerners in the era of the Civil War, but also to people in other nations, who celebrated the Union victory as a harbinger of greater rights for themselves. Imaginatively invoking sources neglected by other scholars -- wartime songs, patriotic images on mailing envelopes and in illustrated publications, and regimental histories written during and immediately after the conflict -- Gallagher gives a dramatic portrait of the power of wartime nationalism.
His emphasis on the preservation of democratic government and the opportunities of free labor as central to the patriotic outlook is hardly new -- one need only read Lincoln's wartime speeches to find eloquent expression of these themes. But instead of celebrating the greatness of American democracy, Gallagher claims, too many historians dwell on its limitations, notably the exclusion from participation of nonwhites and women. Moreover, perhaps because of recent abuses of American power in the name of freedom, scholars seem uncomfortable with robust expressions of patriotic sentiment, especially when wedded to military might. According to Gallagher, they denigrate nationalism and suggest that the war had no real justification other than the abolition of slavery. (Gallagher ignores a different interpretation of the Union war effort, emanating from neo-Confederates and the libertarian right, which portrays Lincoln as a tyrant who presided over the destruction of American freedom through creation of the leviathan national state, not to mention the dreaded income tax.)
Gallagher devotes many pages -- too many in a book of modest length -- to critiques of recent Civil War scholars, whom he accuses of exaggerating the importance of slavery in the conflict and the contribution of black soldiers to Union victory. Often, his complaint seems to be that another historian did not write the book he would have written.
Thus, Gallagher criticizes Melinda Lawson, the author of ''Patriot Fires,'' one of the most influential recent studies of wartime nationalism, for slighting the experiences of the soldiers. But Lawson was examining nation-building on the Northern home front. Her investigation of subjects as diverse as the marketing of war bonds, the dissemination of pro-Union propaganda and the organization of Sanitary Fairs, where goods were sold to raise money for soldiers' aid, illuminates how the nation state for the first time reached into the homes and daily lives of ordinary Americans.
Gallagher also criticizes recent studies of soldiers' letters and diaries, which find that an antislavery purpose emerged early in the war. These works, he argues, remain highly ''impressionistic,'' allowing the historian ''to marshal support for virtually any argument.'' Whereupon Gallagher embarks on his own equally impressionistic survey of these letters, finding that they emphasize devotion to the Union.
Ultimately, Gallagher's sharp dichotomy between the goals of Union and emancipation seems excessively schematic. It begs the question of what kind of Union the war was being fought to preserve. The evolution of Lincoln's own outlook illustrates the problem. On the one hand, as Gallagher notes, Lincoln always insisted that he devised his policies regarding slavery in order to win the war and preserve national unity. Yet years before the Civil War, Lincoln had argued that slavery fatally undermined the nation's ability to exemplify the superiority of free institutions. The Union to be saved, he said, must be ''worthy of the saving.'' During the secession crisis, Lincoln could have preserved the Union by yielding to Southern demands. He adamantly refused to compromise on the crucial political issue -- whether slavery should be allowed to expand into Western territories.
Gallagher maintains that only failure on the battlefield, notably Gen. George B. McClellan's inability to capture Richmond, the Confederate capital, in the spring of 1862, forced the administration to act against slavery. Yet the previous fall, before significant military encounters had taken place, Lincoln had already announced a plan for gradual emancipation. This hardly suggests that military necessity alone placed the slavery question on the national agenda. Early in the conflict, many Northerners, Lincoln included, realized that there was little point in fighting to restore a status quo that had produced war in the first place.
Many scholars have argued that the war brought into being a new conception of American nationhood. Gallagher argues, by contrast, that it solidified pre-/existing patriotic values. Continuity, not change, marked Northern attitudes. Gallagher acknowledges that as the war progressed, ''a struggle for a different kind of Union emerged.'' Yet his theme of continuity seems inadequate to encompass the vast changes Americans experienced during the Civil War. Surely, he is correct that racism survived the war. Yet he fails to account for the surge of egalitarian sentiment that inspired the rewriting of the laws and Constitution to create, for the first time, a national citizenship enjoying equal rights not limited by race.
Before the war, slavery powerfully affected the concept of self-government. Large numbers of Americans identified democratic citizenship as a privilege of whites alone -- a position embraced by the Supreme Court in the Dred Scott decision of 1857. Which is why the transformation wrought by the Civil War was so remarkable. As George William Curtis, the editor of Harper's Weekly, observed in 1865, the war transformed a government ''for white men'' into one ''for mankind.'' That was something worth fighting for.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Union engineers at the siege of Petersburg, August 1864. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (91%); HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); WRITERS (75%)

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Union War, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



24 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: The Benefits of Telling the Ugly Truth

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
YOUR stock portfolio has been climbing like a rocket, and you're beginning to think that your financial adviser is a genius.
Then he tells you he's not. ''It was just luck,'' he says.
That oil stock, the one that jumped 80 percent? A good pick, sure -- but he had no idea it was that good. ''It was a surprise,'' he says, ''Don't count on it happening again.''
Disappointing? Maybe. But it sounds like the truth, and that may mean that the rest of what he says is true, too. This kind of self-deprecation may not be standard patter for financial advisers, but Shlomo Benartzi, a behavioral economist at the University of California, Los Angeles, says it should be.
In order to build trust and credibility, Professor Benartzi suggests, advisers should come right out with the truth, especially when it's ugly. If advisers have been merely lucky -- or have made recommendations that were outright failures -- they should come clean about it, he says. Such admissions may be off-putting initially, he said in an interview, but as long as they are followed by a clear description of what an adviser is doing well -- assuming, of course, that something is being done well -- candor is good business. 
''From a behavioral standpoint, it's really better for your credibility if you're honest,'' Professor Benartzi said. If you don't take credit when the market rises, for example, you may not have to take responsibility when it goes down.
In a new study for Allianz Global Investors, a unit of Allianz, the financial giant, he draws on the broad findings of behavioral economics to make some startling recommendations for advisers. The paper -- which assumes that most advisers are honest and won't use their newly acquired psychological acumen to exploit clients -- is titled ''Behavioral Finance in Action: Psychological Challenges in the Financial Adviser/Client Relationship and Strategies to Solve Them.''
Behavioral economics holds that individuals do not necessarily act rationally and in their own self-interest. Instead, they make intuitive decisions that may be swayed by phenomena like ''framing.'' Far more people are likely to buy a package of cold cuts, for example, if it's framed, or labeled, as ''90 percent fat-free'' than if it's labeled ''containing 10 percent fat.''
The paper opens what it calls the ''behavioral finance toolbox'' for advisers, explaining how to overcome obstacles posed by investors' ''intuitive minds.''
For example, research by Professor Benartzi and Richard H. Thaler, an economics professor at the University of Chicago -- and a regular contributor to Sunday Business -- found that people were generally likely to save more if asked to ''precommit'' to doing so in the future. Their findings have been incorporated in many 401(k) plans.
By agreeing to deduct a certain amount of money from your paycheck starting next Jan. 1 and to increase the deduction every New Year's Day thereafter, you can procrastinate -- you don't have to do anything now -- yet increase your savings substantially. And if those increases coincide with raises, your take-home pay won't decline, avoiding ''the mind's hypersensitivity to loss,'' the paper says.
You can also opt out freely -- which may make you more comfortable with the plan in the first place.
The new paper takes precommitment strategies much further, advocating, for example, a ''Ulysses contract'' -- or a ''commitment memorandum'' that spells out what to do when the markets move 25 percent up or down. The adviser and the investor are both supposed to sign it -- agreeing in advance, perhaps, to buy morestocks in a market plunge, and not to sell. Conversely, when markets soar, they may be committed to selling overvalued stocks, not buying more of them -- rebalancing the portfolio to restore an agreed-upon asset mix.
The concept of resisting temptation this way is at least as old Homer. In ''The Odyssey,'' Ulysses had his crew bind him to the mast and agree in advance to ignore his entreaties before sailing near the Sirens, whose songs were irresistible. It worked for Ulysses. Whether contemporary investors are ready for the strategy is another question.
''The idea is great, but it may be a little aggressive for many people,'' said Bud Pernoll, senior managing director of Bay Mutual Financial, an independent financial advisory firm in Santa Monica, Calif. Many individuals and some companies will balk at signing a ''contract'' that might seem to limit their flexibility, he said, even though the strategy makes a lot of sense.
Mr. Pernoll is a fan of behavioral finance and its concepts, but he says the field is in its infancy and is just beginning to be absorbed by financial practitioners.
The Ulysses contract is deliberately provocative, Professor Benartzi said. It ''forces you to think in advance -- both adviser and client -- and put a plan in writing and explain, when you're tempted to take an action, how it fits into your plan.'' He added that ''the flip side -- controlling the intuitive mind'' so it doesn't do damage -- is important, too.
The paper gives advisers tips for enhancing their credibility. They should display their credentials prominently on the wall -- this makes their recommendations more believable, the paper says. And they should present the downside of an investment strategy before explaining its benefits. ''By talking about the downside first,'' the paper says, ''the financial adviser is displaying honesty that elicits a greater willingness in the listener.''
IN the wrong hands, of course, such insights could be quite dangerous, said Barbara Roper, director of investor protection for the Consumer Federation of America. Behavioral economics can teach an adviser bent on enriching himself how to more skillfully push an investor's buttons.
Advisers have many different backgrounds and credentials, and work under different ethical guidelines: no universal fiduciary standard requires all advisers to put investors' interests first. That could change: as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission has studied the issue and recommended the creation of such a universal standard. But it has not taken final action.
Cathy Smith, co-director of the Allianz Global Investors Center for Behavioral Finance, says the company hasn't taken a position on the issue. Professor Benartzi, on the other hand, says he favors ''having more consistency in the credentials'' of financial advisers as well as ''a requirement that they should first and foremost do what's right for the client.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Candor from financial advisers builds trust with clients, Shlomo Benartzi says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN NELSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); INTERVIEWS (66%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (50%)

COMPANY: ALLIANZ GLOBAL INVESTORS KAPITALANLAGEGESELLSCHAFT MBH (53%); ALLIANZ SE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

TICKER: ALV (FRA) (53%); ALV (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



25 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: The Ryan Plan for Medicaid: A good deal for the federal government would be a very bad deal for the states

 BODY:
With Washington looking for ways to rein in costly entitlement programs and state governments struggling to balance budgets, conservatives have revived an old nostrum: turning Medicaid into a block grant program.
The desire for fiscal relief is understandable. Medicaid insures low-income people and in these tough economic times, enrollment and costs -- for the federal government and state governments -- have swelled.
Representative Paul Ryan, and the House Republicans, are now proposing to ease Washington's strain by capping federal contributions. Like his proposal for Medicare, that would only shift the burden -- this time onto both state governments and beneficiaries. 
Still, some governors may be tempted. His plan promises them greater flexibility to manage their programs -- and achieve greater efficiency and save money. That may sound good, but the truth is, no foreseeable efficiencies will compensate for the big loss of federal contribution.
Mr. Ryan also wants to repeal the health care reform law and its requirement that states expand their Medicaid rolls starting in 2014. Once again Washington would pay the vast bulk of the added cost, so states would be turning down a very good deal to save a lesser amount of money.
Here's how Medicaid currently works: Washington sets minimum requirements for who can enroll and what services must be covered, and pays half of the bill in the richest states and three-quarters of the bill in the poorest state. If people are poor enough to qualify and a medical service recommended by their doctors is covered, the state and federal governments will pick up the tab, with minimal co-payments by the beneficiaries. That is a big plus for enrollees' health, and a healthy population is good for everyone. But the costs are undeniably high.
Enter the House Republicans' budget proposal. Instead of a commitment to insure as many people as meet the criteria, it would substitute a set amount per state. Starting in 2013, the grant would probably equal what the state would have received anyway through federal matching funds, although that is not spelled out. After that, the block grant would rise each year only at the national rate of inflation, with adjustments for population growth.
There are several problems with that, starting with that inflation-pegged rate of growth, which could not possibly keep pace with the rising cost of medical care. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that federal payments would be 35 percent lower in 2022 than currently projected and 49 percent lower in 2030.
To make up the difference, states would probably have to cut payments to doctors, hospitals or nursing homes; curtail eligibility; reduce benefits; or increase their own payments for Medicaid. The problems do not end there. If a bad economy led to a sharp jump in unemployment, a state's grant would remain the same. Nor would the block grant grow fast enough to accommodate expensive advances in medicine, rising demand for long-term care, or unexpected health care needs in the wake of epidemics or natural disasters. This would put an ever-tightening squeeze on states, forcing them to drop enrollees, cut services or pump up their own contributions.
This is not the way to go. The real problem is not Medicaid. Contrary to most perceptions, it is a relatively efficient program -- with low administrative costs, a high reliance on managed care and much lower payments to providers than other public and private insurance.
The real problem is soaring medical costs. The Ryan plan does little to address that. The health care law, which Republicans have vowed to repeal, seeks to reform the entire system to deliver quality care at lower cost.
To encourage that process, President Obama recently proposed a simplified matching rate for Medicaid, which would reward states for efficiencies and automatically increase federal payments if a recession drives up enrollments and state costs. The president's approach is better for low-income Americans and for state budgets as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (67%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



26 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Conspiracies Are Us

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
No sooner had President Obama released his long-form birth certificate than Orly Taitz, the doyenne of the ''birther'' movement, found reason to doubt it.
''A step in the right direction,'' she said, even though it was precisely the document that many birthers had been demanding of the president. And then she argued that it was still subject to authentication.
Donald Trump, similarly bouffant, blond and politically inclined, likewise breezed past the new evidence of Mr. Obama's citizenship, pausing only to take credit for forcing the release of the document before suggesting that the president was hiding something else -- bad grades.
So much for Mr. Obama's hopes of stopping the ''silliness.'' 
To many, those who doubt Mr. Obama's citizenship are driven simply by racial prejudice; they are unwilling to allow that America's first black president could hold the office legitimately.
Many scholars of conspiracy theory agree. But they also note that such theories are hardly unique to Mr. Obama; they have a long history in the United States and elsewhere, coming from left and right, covering all sorts of subjects, political and otherworldly (the twin towers were not hit by airplanes; Paul is dead). And those who doubt Mr. Obama's citizenship fit the mold of other conspiracy theorists: they don't loose their grip on their beliefs easily, if at all.
''It almost becomes an article of faith, and as with any theological belief, you can't confront it with facts,'' said Kenneth D. Kitts, a professor of political science at the University of North Carolina at Pembroke who has written extensively about presidential commissions that looked into events that have generated some of the biggest conspiracy theories of the last century -- the attack on Pearl Harbor and the assassination of John F. Kennedy, among others.
The fact that many Americans -- and many Republicans in particular -- have told pollsters that they doubt the president's citizenship is less surprising when you consider the sizable percentages of Americans who subscribe to other conspiracy theories, said Robert Alan Goldberg, a history professor at the University of Utah and the author of ''Enemies Within: The Culture of Conspiracy in Modern America.''
Eighty percent of Americans, he said, believe that President Kennedy was killed by a conspiracy, rather than a lone gunman, as a government commission affirmed. Thirty percent believe that the government covered up aliens' landing in Roswell, N.M., and a third of American blacks believe that government scientists created AIDS as a weapon of black genocide. Sept. 11, of course, has inspired conspiracy theories -- it was plotted, variously, by ''the Jews,'' the Bush administration or Saddam Hussein.
By definition, Professor Goldberg said, a conspiracy theory is a belief that cunning forces are seeking to bend history to their will, provoking terror attacks or economic calamity to move the world in the direction they wish.
''I look at this birther conspiracy as a typical example,'' he said. ''This is far beyond the issue of whether this is a legitimate president. The real issue for them is this belief that this is a ploy by this hidden group to get power, to move Americans toward socialism or globalism or multiculturalism using Barack Obama as a pawn.''
Evidence that disproves a conspiracy is then scrubbed to provide new evidence -- as with the Obama doubters who quickly claimed that the administration had used computer manipulation to create a false birth certificate. Of course the government says the conspiracy doesn't exist, the doubters argue, because the government is complicit in the conspiracy.
The Dreyfus affair is a concise example of the damned-if-you-do, damned-if-you-don't nature of conspiracy theories. Alfred Dreyfus, a young Jewish artilleryman, was wrongly imprisoned in France in 1894 on accusations of treason.
Military officers argued that his handwriting appeared on incriminating documents, writes Louis Begley in a book on the subject. When one expert doubted the handwritings' similarity, the government produced another to argue that dissimilarity was proof of his guilt -- Dreyfus had altered his writing to throw people off his trail.
In a way, it is human nature to want to construct a narrative to resolve anxieties, to be drawn to mystery or the perception of it.
But the strong embrace of conspiracy theories is also embedded in the American experience. A fear of enemies -- real and imagined, internal and external -- defined those who forged this country. A place created as God's country was bound to see the subversions of Satan behind every uncertain turn.
As Professor Goldberg writes in an encyclopedia, ''Conspiracy Theories in American History'': ''Conspiracy theory draws power by merging with and reinforcing traditional American values and beliefs: a sense of mission, Protestant supremacy, concerns about encroachments on liberty, anti-elitism, maintenance of the racial order, and the sanctity of private property.''
In this analysis, it's not surprising that the first black president, educated in the Ivy League, would become the subject of a conspiracy theory. Many conspiracy theorists believe not only that the president lied about his birthplace and his religious faith (in their rendition, he is a Muslim, another theory that has survived despite all evidence). They will also argue as blindly that the president is going to take away Americans' guns and put them in re-education camps.
What Richard Hofstadter called ''the paranoid style in American politics'' is encouraged by popular culture, in movies like ''Birth of a Nation'' and ''The Da Vinci Code,'' and by those whom Professor Goldberg terms the ''conspiracy entrepreneurs'' -- whether Glenn Beck or Jerome Corsi, who went from self-styled expert on John Kerry's military record to self-styled expert on Barack Obama's heritage. The Internet, where you never have to confront an idea you don't like, allows these theories to grow deeper and wider.
Other historians argue that past government lies, particularly in the past half-century, have helped fuel conspiracy theories, by giving Americans reasons to suspect their leaders. (''See, I'm not paranoid, I'm right.'')
So on InfoWars, the Web site of the hypervigilant radio host Alex Jones, a list of ''33 Conspiracy Theories That Turned Out to Be True'' leads from the deceptions of the Gulf of Tonkin and Iran-contra and then moves to accusations of plots by the Trilateral Commission and the Federal Reserve.
Still, even those who study conspiracy theories are surprised by the intensity of the one surrounding the Obama birth certificate.
Kathryn Olmsted, a history professor at the University of California, Davis, notes that the John Birch Society claimed that President Dwight Eisenhower, a Republican and a staunch cold warrior, was actually a secret communist. But the attacks on Mr. Obama, she argued, are at essence about race. And because these theorists are fueled by partisan hatred, many won't be satisfied. ''They'll always question the authenticity of the documents they're given,'' she said, ''because they're not driven by a quest for truth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PULPIT: Donald Trump took credit for the release of the president's birth certificate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS)(WK1)
 BELIEF: Protesters claimed that a U.F.O. appeared in Roswell, N.M., in 1947. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(WK3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSPIRACY (89%); ASSASSINATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); HISTORY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); RACE & RACISM (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); RELIGION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); WRITERS (63%); GENOCIDE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); ORLY TAITZ (73%); DONALD TRUMP (70%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



27 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Imagine: The Fed Dead

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Mr. Lowenstein's latest book, ''The End of Wall Street,'' was just released in paperback.

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, faces a crisis of confidence. He is excoriated on the right for debasing the currency, and blasted on the left for failing to stimulate more than he has. It has gotten so bad that last week Mr. Bernanke, who prefers to discuss monetary policy with erudite professors like himself, submitted to the indignity of a news conference. Among the uninvited was Representative Ron Paul, who is flirting with a presidential run, and who, if he took office in 2013, would like nothing more than to celebrate the Fed's centennial by ... abolishing it.
And that got me to thinking: What if there were no Fed? Don't laugh; it has happened before. The United States had a primitive central bank, conceived by Alexander Hamilton, but President James Madison let its charter lapse in 1811. A second such bank became the target of President Andrew Jackson, who viewed it as a ''hydra'' and a ''curse'' upon the nation. Jackson sought to decertify the bank and, in 1836, succeeded. Never mind that the following year, the United States was plunged into a serious financial panic. The curse had been lifted, not to reappear for nearly a century. 
Established in 1913, the Fed was to be a banker to the nation's banks, controlling the money supply and, thus, the value of the currency. Without a Fed, someone else would have to handle these (and other) tasks of central banking.
''Money,'' observes the Fed historian Allan H. Meltzer, ''does not take care of itself.'' But who else could regulate the value of money? And regulate its value in relation to what?
In its founding days, the United States defined the dollar by an explicit weight of gold or silver. During the first half of the 19th century, state-chartered banks issued notes, preferably backed by metal, that circulated much as dollar bills do today. But since these banks were private, and differed widely in their standards, their notes were accorded different values. In effect, the country had lots of ''monies.''
The United States moved to normalize the situation during the Civil War. It restricted the issuance of notes to more uniform, federally chartered banks, which were required to hold Treasury bonds (as well as gold) in reserve.
Should the Fed be interred, this abbreviated history provides some clues about alternatives. One solution would be for private banks to issue money -- perhaps bearing the likeness of Jamie Dimon and the seal of his bank, JPMorgan Chase. Alternatively, the Treasury could do it.
But what will the money represent? Gold is the first obvious answer. James Grant, the newsletter writer, author and gold bug par excellence, asserts that gold money is superior to the ''fiat'' money of the Fed. By fiat, he means that it has value only because the Fed says it does. (Representative Paul, less diplomatically, refers to Federal Reserve notes as ''counterfeits'' and to the Fed as a price fixer.)
Let us interject that in any monetary system, some authority must fix either the price of money or the supply. McDonald's can either set the price of a hamburger and let the market consume the quantity it will -- or, it can insist on selling a specified quantity, in which case consumer demand will determine the price.
The Fed has a similar choice with money. The Bernanke Fed, which is trying to stimulate the economy, regulates the price of money -- the interest rate -- presently 0.0 percent. Paul Volcker, who assumed command of the Fed in 1979, when inflation was rampant, chose the opposite tactic. Mr. Volcker provided a specific (and, dare I say, miserly) quantity of liquidity, letting interest rates go where the market directed -- ultimately 20 percent. There is an element of arbitrary choice either way.
The gold standard, in effect, replaces the Fed chief with the collective wisdom (or luck) of the mining industry. Rather than entrust the money supply to a guru or a professor, money is limited by the quantity of bullion. The law in the early 20th century stipulated that dollars be backed 40 percent in gold. This fixed the dollar in relation to metal but not in relation to things, like shoes or yarn, that dollars could buy. This was because the quantity of bullion that banks had in reserve, relative to the size of the economy, fluctuated. As a historian noted, it was as if ''the yardstick of value was 36 inches long in 1879 ... 46 inches in 1896, 13 and a half inches in 1920.''
The gold standard -- which John Maynard Keynes termed a ''barbarous relic'' -- led to ruinous deflations. When gold reserves contracted, so did the money supply. David Moss, a Harvard Business School professor, asserts that the United States experienced more banking panics in the years without a central bank than any other industrial nation, often when people feared for the quality of paper; specifically, it experienced them in 1837, 1839, 1857, 1873 and 1907.
The Fed was conceived to alleviate such crises; that is, to be ''the lender of last resort.'' This function was fulfilled, ad hoc, by the financier J. P. Morgan in the panic of 1907. But Morgan was old, destined to die the year the Fed was created; some institution was needed. Hostility toward central banks, an American tradition, was such that in 1910, lawmakers and bankers convened at Jekyll Island, Ga. -- under the ruse of going duck hunting -- to sketch a blueprint.
Part of the aim of the new central bank was a more flexible money supply -- for instance, to lend to farmers in the winter. Another was to lend into the teeth of a panic -- though only to solvent institutions and on sound collateral. The insurance giant American International Group -- a controversial bailout recipient in 2008 -- would not have qualified.
In its early days, the Fed maintained the gold standard -- forcing it to maintain tight money even in 1931, in the midst of the Great Depression. Economists today regard this as a mistake.
The circumstances are relevant to those who envision a Fed-less future. England had departed from the gold standard; worried that the United States would follow suit, people demanded to trade dollars for gold. Professor Meltzer deduces that the gold standard doesn't work for one country alone; the bad paper money corrupts the good.
An alternative to gold, and to the Fed, was suggested by Mr. Bernanke's hero, Milton Friedman: let a computer govern the money supply. John Taylor, a former Treasury official, has derived a formula, the Taylor Rule, which Fed policy often agrees with. Adopting the formula in a mechanical way would trim the deficit a bit, since the Fed could dismiss every one of its 200 economists. The problem with a formula (also its virtue) is its lack of flexibility. Alan S. Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman, notes that strict adherence to the Taylor Rule during the recent crisis would have mandated an interest rate of negative 5 percent. (That is, the economy was so weak, and people so unwilling to borrow money, the computer would have paid people 5 percent a year to accept it.) This being impractical, Mr. Bernanke was moved to improvise a remedy other than negative rates.
If the computer is out and the Fed shuttered, Professor Meltzer suggests that the dollar be backed by euros, pounds and yen (and, eventually, the renminbi). This new money would require that each of the financial powers commits to a targeted rate of inflation -- say, 2 percent a year. People who didn't trust the dollar to maintain its value could trade them for euros. Now there's an idea that would delight the Tea Party -- American money backed by France.
Actually, this system is not terribly different from today's. We have, indeed, fiat money, convertible into foreign exchange and regulated, not always successfully, with the intent of maintaining (or not too quickly depreciating) the dollar's purchasing power. And if money is a unit of value, it is hard to conceive of a yardstick better than purchasing power.
But the Fed, thanks to an act of Congress in 1978, and perhaps to America's suspicious anti-central banking culture, has a dual mission -- protecting the value of the dollar and promoting long-term growth and employment. In this, it differs (at least in degree) from Europe's and other central banks. In many ways, this mission creep -- the Fed's expanded power and role in the economy -- lies at the root of the animus that Americans feel for it.
Banking purists would like, if not to abolish the institution, to return it to the job envisaged on Jekyll Island. They are, in a sense, the financial equivalent to strict constitutionalists. Nostalgia has its place, but so does pragmatism. Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues may be flawed, but democracy trusts in the power to elect, appoint and, if need be, remove. It is fine to lament their alleged excesses -- for instance, the Fed's swollen balance sheet in the name of stimulation, or ''quantitative easing.'' It is another to imagine that regulating the money could be as simple as it was in 1913, or that a formula, or a barbarous relic, could do the job.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bullion: Alternatives, including a return to the gold standard, have drawbacks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNDERWOOD & UNDERWOOD, CORBIS) (WK7) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY STEPHEN DOYLE) (WK1
 WK7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HISTORY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); BONDS (62%); WRITERS (61%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); JAMES DIMON (78%); RON PAUL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



28 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Senators Ensnared In Budget Politics

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a column for the Tribune.
It might not matter, in the end, whether the Senate wants to use some of the Rainy Day Fund to balance the budget. The House isn't likely to go along unless the proposition is delivered on a tea cart pushed by Gov. Rick Perry and an entourage that includes the leaders of the third-party conservative groups who have been hounding lawmakers via e-mail, phone banking and television advertising to hold the line.
It's even harder to go on that sort of suicide mission behind a lieutenant governor who tells senators one day that he supports using the fund -- on a convoluted contingency basis -- then tells the news media that his preference is to use ''non-tax revenues,'' and then tells the senators, in a public letter also distributed to the news media, that he's behind the budget as prepared by the Senate Finance Committee, complete with the Rainy Day thing. And, as that's going out, says he's behind them, but would prefer those other alternatives. 
It made the senators skittish, to put it lightly. The Senate Finance Committee approved the bill on April 21 with only two Democrats on board and with one Republican among the nays -- saying the budget was fine but the financing was troublesome.
That vote was effective backlash bait. The Texas branch of Americans for Prosperity and Texans for Fiscal Responsibility and the Texas Public Policy Foundation, among others, immediately began rallying conservative voters against the Senate proposal.
While the bill cuts 5.9 percent from current spending, and allots nothing for population and inflation increases, the Senate managed to position itself as a profligate spender. The House budget is lower still and doesn't rely on the state's savings account.
Mr. Perry chimed in with the outside groups, restating his lack of support for anything that uses the Rainy Day Fund. Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst fell off the wagon and then jumped back on. Former Senator Phil Gramm lent his voice to automated phone calls to conservatives, urging them to call on lawmakers to hold the line.
Senators freaked out. Here's what that actually means, when you're talking about the Texas Senate: They went into private meeting rooms and caucused, sometimes with Republicans in the room, sometimes with Democrats, sometimes with bipartisan blends.
Senator Steve Ogden, Republican of Bryan and chairman of the Finance Committee, was trying to pull together the 21 votes needed to bring up the budget for consideration by the full Senate, and all indications were that he'd been making headway. But in the face of the backlash and of Mr. Dewhurst's public unease, Mr. Ogden's band of reluctant lawmakers broke into pieces.
Even without the noise, it would be difficult to get this particular Humpty Dumpty back on the wall. With all of the Republicans on board, Mr. Ogden would still need two Democrats.
And he doesn't have all of the Republicans. On the right, a half-dozen senators ran for cover, worried on the one hand that the fiscal hard-liners would come with pitchforks, and on the other that the cuts in the budget would incite suburban and exurban Republicans to come hunting for the rascals who cut public education.
The Democrats are getting hit from the left, from other senators who say the Senate budget doesn't meet the state's needs and doesn't deserve Democratic endorsements, and from groups like the Center for Public Policy Priorities, which is telling them that a budget without Rainy Day money is too skinny to support, and from Mr. Dewhurst himself, who suggested that Senate Democrats are making this a partisan fight.
Mr. Ogden likened it to a baseball diamond, with the outside groups as the foul lines on the left and the right, and with his job as just trying to get a fair hit. A safe hit is the only way to get the bill out of the Senate and on its way to the House and Senate committee that will reconcile the differences.
That's where the real problem is. Mr. Ogden's counterpart, Representative Jim Pitts, Republican of Waxahachie and chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, has made it clear he can't get the 100 votes needed in the House to tap the Rainy Day Fund. He's not sure the conservative House wants to spend the money even if it comes with no political strings.
That uncertainty is keeping senators awake at night.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); NONTAX REVENUES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); APPROVALS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (55%)

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (58%); RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



29 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Syrian Businessman Becomes Magnet for Anger and Dissent

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- When protests erupted in March in the forlorn Syrian border town of Dara'a, demonstrators burned the president's portraits, then set ablaze an unlikely target: the local office of the country's largest mobile phone company, Syriatel, whose owner sits at the nexus of anger and power in a restive country.
Syriatel is owned by Rami Makhlouf, first cousin and childhood friend of President Bashar al-Assad and the country's most powerful businessman. In the past decade, he has emerged as a strength and a liability of a government that finds its bastions of support shrinking and a figure to watch as Mr. Assad's inner circle tries to deal with protests shaking his family's four decades of rule.
Leery of the limelight, he is alternatively described as the Assad family's banker or Mr. Five Percent (or 10, or whatever share gets the deal done). His supporters praise him for his investment in Syria, but they are far outnumbered by detractors, who have derided him in protests as a thief or worse. Sometimes more than Mr. Assad himself, he has become the lightning rod of dissent. 
''We'll say it clearly,'' went a chant in Dara'a. ''Rami Makhlouf is robbing us.''
Egypt had Ahmed Ezz, the steel magnate who favored tight Italian suits (and now faces trial in white prison garb). In Tunisia, it was Leila Traboulsi, the hairdresser who became the president's wife, then a symbol of the extravagance of the ruling family. Mr. Makhlouf, 41, is Syria's version, a man at the intersection of family privilege, clan loyalty, growing avarice and, perhaps most dangerously, the yawning disconnect between ruler and ruled that already reshaped authoritarian Syria even before the protests.
Like Mr. Ezz in Egypt, he has become a symbol of how economic reforms turned crony socialism into crony capitalism, making the poor poorer and the connected rich fantastically wealthier.
''A huge liability,'' was how a Syrian analyst described him.
''On the economic side, he really symbolizes what the people hate about the regime,'' said the analyst, who asked not to be named. ''They hate the security services and they hate Rami Makhlouf. On the economic side, Rami symbolizes the very worst about the way the country is run.''
An e-mail sent to Mr. Makhlouf's company on Saturday, asking for comment, went unanswered. Calls to the headquarters seeking comment were not answered Saturday.
The origins of Mr. Makhlouf's wealth mirror the consolidation of the Assad family's rule over Syria. Mr. Assad's father, Hafez, a former air force commander who took power in 1970 and soon forged an alliance between officers like him from the Alawite minority and Sunni Muslim businessmen in Damascus, the capital, offered privileges to his wife's family, the Makhloufs. Mr. Makhlouf inherited the mantle, while his brother, Hafez, went into the other family business -- state security -- taking over as intelligence chief in Damascus.
''Together they make quite a duo,'' an Obama administration official said.
Though prominent even before Mr. Assad's ascent in 2000, Mr. Makhlouf grew even wealthier as he and Egyptian partners won one of two mobile phone contracts. (The partners were eventually forced to sell.) Syriatel has about 55 percent of the market, Syrian economists say. As the reforms moved Syria away from a state-led economy, he penetrated the economy's most lucrative sectors -- real estate, transport, banking, insurance, construction and tourism -- and his interests run from a five-star hotel in Damascus to duty-free shops at airports and the border. He is the vice chairman and, Syrian analysts say, the real power in Cham Holding, which was set up in 2007 with 73 investors and $360 million, in what seemed an attempt to tether wealthy Sunni businessmen to the government. It has effectively been charged with renovating Syria's aging infrastructure, attracting Arab capital in another network of support for Mr. Assad's rule.
Some praise him for the work, especially employees in Syriatel, whose sleek offices and good salaries make it the first choice of many young graduates for jobs.
''No one can say he spends his money in nightclubs with girls,'' said a manager at Syriatel who only gave his first name, Muhammad. ''He spends his time thinking how to build a new Syria. He is the ideal for Syrian youths as a successful businessmen.''
But many contend his success came by way of no-bid contracts and leverage with the force of the state behind it, where the government and his interests are merged. A former government adviser recalled Mr. Makhlouf's father insisting on amendments to a banking law, even after it was passed by Parliament. (It was revised, he said.) The American government, which imposed sanctions on him in 2008, accused Mr. Makhlouf of manipulating the judicial system and using Syrian intelligence to intimidate his rivals.
''Everybody knows that you can't do anything without him,'' said Amr Al Azm, a Syria expert and professor at Shawnee State University in Ohio. ''He has his fingers in so many pies. Anything you want to do you partner with him, or you give him a share.''
In a country where criticism of Mr. Assad himself was long taboo, Syriatel became an early proxy for protest under his rule, much of which centered on the government's failure to profit from the sale of its license.
Riad Seif, an opposition member of Parliament, criticized what he called irregularities in the phone licenses and was soon arrested and imprisoned. So was Aref Dalila, another dissident. Rami Nakhle, an activist who fled Syria for Lebanon in January, began an Internet campaign to boycott Syriatel in 2008 over its high fees. They urged people to switch off their phones for four hours on the first day of the month. An online petition that he and other young activists circulated received 5,000 signatures.
''We were touching Rami Makhlouf but not naming him,'' Mr. Nakhle said. ''We were doing something political but in a way that we thought was safe.''
His efforts were humbled when the mother of one of his friends figured out what they were doing. She smashed her son's laptop, Mr. Nakhle recalled, and barred him from the Internet for a month. ''Do you want to disappear?'' he recalled her asking her son.
Like Mr. Ezz's place in Egypt, Mr. Makhlouf's profile illustrates deeper changes in Syria that have made the uprisings more than simply calls for individual rights.
Mr. Assad's father was famous for his ability to hold together disparate elements of the country, most remarkably in 1982, when merchants in Damascus sided with the government in its brutal suppression of an Islamist revolt that culminated with the killing of at least 10,000 people in the central city of Hama.
Since then, the tacit understanding that underlined his rule -- Alawite officers and Sunni merchants -- has weakened, as the sons and grandsons of those Alawite officers enter business. Administration officials and economists say there are growing indications that support of the traditional Sunni commercial elite has begun to falter, too.
Joshua Landis, a professor of Middle East studies at the University of Oklahoma, called Mr. Makhlouf ''the tendons that reach out to the new capitalist class that was empowered.''
But others see him as more divisive, emblematic of a state that once brought electricity to every town but, as in Egypt, can no longer afford the social contract of taking care of its people's needs. As that falters, figures like Mr. Makhlouf grow richer, alienating the traditional elite and people who view him as a symbol of injustice.
''Ideologically the regime doesn't stand for much anymore beyond the interests of certain individuals,'' said Nadim Houry, a researcher with Human Rights Watch in Beirut. '' He's a symbol of what is perceived as private interests controlling large chunks of Syria's economy.''
Even some sympathetic to the government have speculated whether Mr. Makhlouf might be sacrificed in an attempt to preserve the government, as Mr. Ezz was early on. But, others note, Mr. Ezz never had the ties of blood and clan that matter so much in Mr. Assad's Syria.
''Right now, they will do anything to hang on to power,'' the Obama administration official said. ''That might lead them to do something, kick Rami aside, but I don't see it going there quite yet.''
The official added: ''At the end of the day, they're family.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rami Makhlouf is a first cousin of President Bashar al-Assad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BALKIS PRESS/ABACA USA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); AIR FORCES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (91%) SYRIA (97%); EGYPT (92%); LEBANON (92%); TUNISIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



30 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Appearances April 24-30

 BODY:
THE NEWSPrince William and Kate Middleton appeared on the balcony of Buckingham Palace after their wedding for the traditional first public kiss as husband and wife -- and then, to roars from the crowd, kissed again. 
BEHIND THE NEWS The newly minted Duchess of Cambridge won plaudits for wearing a wedding dress that was respectful and restrained yet flawlessly modern. But much of the style chatter on the day focused instead on a fashion feature that is nowadays seldom seen in less-rarefied social circles: women's hats. The prince appeared in the scarlet uniform of the Irish Guards regiment.
THE NEWSPresident Obama released his long-form Hawaii state birth certificate.
BEHIND THE NEWS The abrupt shift by Mr. Obama came after years of brushing off claims that the short-form certificate generally issued by the state was somehow not proof enough that he was born in the United States. After Donald Trump shot to the top of the polls among Republican presidential hopefuls by talking up the issue, Mr. Obama moved to turn it to his advantage by describing his political opponents as focused on ''silliness'' while more serious national problems loomed.
THE NEWS Players for the National Football League showed up at team facilities to work out after a federal judge ordered an end to the lockout.
BEHIND THE NEWS The labor dispute between the players and the league has featured more zigs and zags than a Devin Hester kick return. Players dissolved their union, were locked out anyway, won a court injunction against the lockout, and showed up at team facilities to work out. But the legal fight is far from over. Late Friday, a federal appeals court in St. Louis granted the owners' request to put a hold on the ruling that lifted the lockout.
THE NEWSBen S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, conducted the first scheduled news conference in the central bank's history.
BEHIND THE NEWS The substance of the briefing was humdrum -- a calm, professorial discourse on how the Fed was managing the economy that retraced familiar ground. The news was that it happened at all: the Fed's usual mode of communication is dry written pronouncements that experts have to parse with tweezers. Stung by criticism of its actions in the financial crisis, the Fed is hoping that greater transparency can help rebuild its image and support.
THE NEWS The toppers worn by many of the guests and onlookers at the royal wedding defied not only convention, but in some cases, gravity.
BEHIND THE NEWS Although the outfits were generally tasteful, the hats resembled, variously, overturned buckets, flowerpots, lampshades, fezzes, salad plates, tea cozies, flying saucers and abstract artworks. ''The real buzz has been the headwear -- the hats and especially the fascinators -- and quite frankly they are fascinating!'' a wedding planner, Shawn Rabideau, wrote for The Times's Lede blog. ''These hats are works of art!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN STILLWELL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
WHITE HOUSE, VIA VIA BLOOMBERG
CHRIS TROTMAN/GETTY IMAGES
DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRIS JACKSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROYAL WEDDING OF PRINCE WILLIAM & KATE MIDDLETON (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LOCKOUTS (87%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (70%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (70%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); JUDGES (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%); CATHERINE, DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE (78%); DONALD TRUMP (52%); BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



31 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Dusting Off The Maid's Room

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
THE idea of a maid's room in New York City may conjure ''Upstairs, Downstairs'' images of cell-like spaces tucked away behind the kitchen, but spaces for the help are leaving behind the claustrophobic feel of the early 20th century and making a comeback. Several new developments have incorporated maid's rooms into their larger apartments, and while the rooms are separate from family sleeping areas, they are generously sized and have standard en-suite bathrooms. The apartments recall the Classic 6s, 7s and 8s of prewar buildings along Park and Fifth Avenues, but this latest iteration of servant quarters has a distinctly 21st-century feel.
The Laureate, a new 20-story building at the corner of Broadway and 76th Street, has four such apartments -- each has four or more bedrooms and is priced at about $11 million. The maid's room is listed simply as another bedroom, but it is away from the others, closer to the front door and living areas. Two of the building's penthouse units even have separate entrances that lead directly to the servant's rooms. 
''When we designed this building,'' said Shlomi Reuveni, a broker at Brown Harris Stevens Select, which is handling sales, ''we felt that the traditional layout with a full dining room, an entry gallery and separate quarters for live-in help was missing from the market. Combining that in a building with modern amenities was even harder to find.''
Other new developments with maid's rooms in some of their units include condominium conversions of prewar buildings at 845 West End Avenue and 905 West End Avenue, as well as the Sheffield, a postwar tower at 322 West 57th Street.
Demand for family-sized apartments with separate quarters for live-in help has been so marked at the Laureate that the Stahl Organization, the developer, has decided to combine some smaller apartments to create more units that fit the bill, Mr. Reuveni said. Many of the interested buyers are coming from abroad, but others, he said, already live on the Upper West Side and are looking for homes that mirror the classic apartments in nearby prewar buildings. While the rooms could also be used as guest rooms or offices, most prospective buyers have said they will use theirs either for a live-in nanny or a housekeeper.
The Sheffield has four large apartments that come with a dining room, a playroom/family room, a library, and a fourth bedroom that has been labeled a maid's room. ''We were trying to play off the vernacular of the Classic 7,'' said Jacqueline Urgo, the president of the Marketing Directors, which is handling sales at the Sheffield.
The apartments, listed for about $7.5 million each, are designed to feel like ''a single-family home in the sky,'' Ms. Urgo said. ''More and more parents are choosing to raise their children in Manhattan, and we have seen a need for these very large spaces.'' Many potential buyers have live-in nannies, ''because people have full lifestyles and maybe you have two working parents,'' she added. ''This type of apartment does fit a need.''
Maid's rooms built in the 1910s and 1920s tended to be barely six to seven feet wide. Apartments that came equipped with them have three or more family bedrooms and might originally have had more than one maid's room. At 905 West End, the developer Samson Management took a Classic 8 -- which had three bedrooms, a living room, a dining room, a kitchen and two maid's rooms off of the kitchen -- and shifted and expanded the bathroom that had been shared by the maid's rooms, combining the remaining space to create one larger room.
''This way, for people who can have live-in help, they don't need to fit them in a tiny box; they can have a proper bedroom,'' said Louise Phillips Forbes, an executive vice president at Halstead Property who is heading up sales for the building. Listed as four-bedroom apartments, they range from $2.74 million to $2.925 million.
''People like it for the long-term play,'' she said. ''They can use it for an au pair or live-in nanny while their kids are young, and when a child gets old enough, he or she can have that space, or it can become an office.''
Traditional maid's rooms get no light, said Iva Spitzer, an executive vice president the Corcoran Group, who has helped convert many prewar buildings and is helping to sell 845 West End. ''They have a closet that you could fit a pair of sneakers and jacket in, and they have a sliver of a bathroom that is so small they couldn't fit the sink in the space, so the sink is in the bedroom.''
Instead of standard bathtubs, baths would have three-foot-wide tubs not big enough to sit down in, she said. In most of the conversions she has been involved in, the tub has been turned into a stall shower and the space was reconfigured to move the sink back into the bathroom.
When redesigning the space, Ms. Spitzer said, ''the question is: How are modern families going to apply themselves to these rooms that were built in 1910?'' In some conversions, the maid's room is eliminated and the space is used to create a big eat-in kitchen, but at 845 West End, the maid's room has been expanded wherever possible and is being marketed as a study.
''I think in modern times,'' she said, ''people die to have an office in their apartment where they can go and be left alone, and they can even put a daybed in it, so it can easily convert into a guest room.'' Some potential buyers have said, however, that they plan to use the space for a nanny.
Even in the current economy, there is still strong demand for live-in help, said Brian Taylor, the owner of New York Domestics, which places hundreds of nannies and housekeepers annually in the New York area. From the suburbs, the majority of requests fielded by his agency are for live-in help, but in Manhattan only about 40 to 50 percent of clients want someone to live in. ''Space is obviously more of an issue in the city,'' he said. In most cases, city families are looking for a live-in nanny rather than a housekeeper.
Michael Kovner, a vice president of Brown Harris Stevens who teaches a class on real estate history for the Real Estate Board of New York, said that perceptions about live-in help and their housing had changed greatly over the last century.
In the early 20th century, waves of immigration brought thousands of unskilled laborers to New York City, making it possible even for middle-class families to hire live-in servants. ''People didn't feel the same way about servants then as they do now,'' Mr. Kovner said, ''because help was cheap and plentiful. And people thought they were pretty fancy to even give their help a roof over their heads.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DORMLIKE: A maid's room in the Sheffield includes an en-suite bathroom, suitable for a live-in nanny or housekeeper. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE2) GRAPHIC: Floor plans of a unit at the Sheffield show a maid's room in the upper-left-hand corner. (RE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



32 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 645 words

PERSON: Max van der Stoel 

HEADLINE: Max van der Stoel, 86, Envoy Who Blew Whistle on Hussein

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Max van der Stoel, a career Dutch diplomat who used his appointment as the United Nations' official watchdog on Iraqi human rights abuses in the 1990s to paint searing portraits of Saddam Hussein's murderous government, died on April 23 at his home in The Hague. He was 86.
The government of the Netherlands announced the death. No cause was given. 
Mr. van der Stoel's first report, in 1992, detailed widespread human rights abuses in Iraq, and it warned that thousands of people were in danger of being executed, tortured or unfairly detained. The report angered the Iraqi authorities so much that he was not permitted to return.
But he delivered a dozen more reports on human rights in Iraq over the next eight years. In his final report, in 1999, Mr. van der Stoel said that Mr. Hussein's record on human rights was among the worst since World War II. He based his conclusions on interviews with people coming out of Iraq and on written materials.
Mr. van der Stoel, a former Dutch foreign minister and ambassador to the United Nations, was a ''special rapporteur,'' in the lexicon of the United Nations. The work of rapporteurs comes to light when a United Nations human rights panel meets for a six-week conference every year. President George W. Bush cited Mr. van der Stoel in making the case for ousting Mr. Hussein in 2003.
During much of the time that Mr. van der Stoel was monitoring Iraq, he was also in charge of dealing with the problems of minorities living in Europe. With the title of high commissioner on national minorities for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, he worked to identify and diffuse tensions like those involving ethnic Russians in the Baltic republics of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.
The Economist described Mr. van der Stoel as an indefatigable traveler, visiting remote regions and staying in roach-filled hotels as he battled what he called ''excessive nationalism.'' His mandate came from human rights clauses put into the Helsinki pact between the cold war adversaries in the 1970s.
The goal was to prevent ethnic conflicts like those involving the Kurds in Turkey or the Basques in Spain. His successes included persuading ethnic Russians in the Crimea to accept autonomy within Ukraine rather than independence and helping to establish a university for Albanians in Macedonia. He won improvements for Hungarians in Slovakia and Romania, and he championed the Roma people.
Max van der Stoel was born on Aug. 3, 1924, in Voorschoten, the Netherlands, and became sensitive to human rights when the Nazis invaded the Netherlands and stripped citizens of their rights. He said his socialist philosophy was nurtured by trips he took with his father, a doctor. He said he found the social and economic disparities between poor and rich neighborhoods to be ''embarrassing.''
He joined the Labor Party in 1945 and served twice as the Dutch foreign minister in Labor governments in the 1970s and 1980s. He was the Netherlands' ambassador to the United Nations in the mid-1980s.
Mr. van der Stoel, who was divorced, is survived by a son and four daughters.
His most difficult and delicate diplomatic victory may have come in 2001, when Prince Willem-Alexander, heir apparent to the Dutch throne, was about to marry Maxima Zorreguieta, an Argentine. The marriage was being criticized because Ms. Zorreguieta's father had been a deputy agriculture minister in the military dictatorship that led Argentina from 1976 to 1983 and that killed more than 7,000 people.
By law, the Dutch Parliament had to approve the spouse of an heir to the throne. Mr. van der Stoel was given the job of persuading the father of the bride to sign a document agreeing to stay away from the wedding. After three trips to Argentina, Mr. van der Stoel obtained the signature.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Max van der Stoel, who detailed Iraqi abuses, in 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PASCAL VOLERY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TORTURE (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); ROMANI PEOPLE (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%) IRAQ (97%); NETHERLANDS (96%); EUROPE (92%); BALTIC STATES (91%); UKRAINE (88%); SPAIN (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); HUNGARY (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



33 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: A Tipping Point for Gay Marriage?

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- It's not every day that a leading law firm fires a client for holding a position so extreme that it may be said to be unworthy of a defense. And it is rarer yet -- unheard of, really -- when that client is the House of Representatives and the position in question is a federal law.
Yet that is just what King & Spalding, a venerable Atlanta firm, did last week. Under pressure from gay rights groups and apparently fearful of criticism from the law students it recruits and the corporate clients it serves, the firm said it would not defend the federal Defense of Marriage Act against a challenge that it violates the Constitution.
The episode has so far mostly been discussed as a matter of legal ethics, and the firm has had a rough ride. But there is something larger going on, too. 
For many gay rights advocates, the decision amounts to a turning point in the debate -- the moment at which opposition to same-sex marriage came to look like bigotry, similar to racial discrimination and the subordination of women.
To opponents of same-sex marriage, the firm's decision is the latest evidence that elite opinion generally and the legal culture in particular is racing ahead of popular opinion and shutting down a worthwhile debate.
''There is a big gap between elites and everyone else'' over same-sex marriage, said Maggie Gallagher, the president of the Institute for Marriage and Public Policy, which supports traditional marriage. The polls and political science literature support her: What may be orthodoxy in faculty lounges remains an open question among the public at large.
Another critic of same-sex marriage said King & Spalding's decision illustrated just how wide the divide between elite and mass opinion on same-sex marriage has become. ''There is no doubting that the default position of the American academy is to dismantle the institution of marriage and remake it on a new basis,'' Matthew J. Franck of the Witherspoon Institute, a conservative research group, wrote in a blog post on Friday. ''The deadly combination of unchallenged liberal presumptions and casual intimidation of dissenters is probably at its worst in the most prestigious universities, which set the tone for the rest of the country, on this issue as on many others.''
Ms. Gallagher sounded bitter and besieged as she described how the nature if not the substance of the debate had shifted. ''Either you're with them or you're a hater,'' she said of gay rights advocates. ''They're trying to exclude you from the public square.''
Evan Wolfson, the president of Freedom to Marry, said he welcomed a conversation, but the arguments against same-sex marriage were so empty that they were not worthy of respect. ''If you know that the only arguments that can be made for a position are discriminatory and harmful to real people,'' he said, ''you should think about whether you should make them.''
This latest skirmish in the culture war over marriage was prompted by the Obama administration's decision in February that it would no longer defend in court the part of the Defense of Marriage Act that denies federal benefits to gay and lesbian couples married in states that recognize such unions. That decision was itself unusual and thus telling.
But it was only one indication of how quickly the battle lines are moving. In 2008, a federal judge in New York ruled that it was defamatory to call a straight man gay. Ten months later, a different judge of the same court, relying on what he called ''a veritable sea change in social attitudes about homosexuality,'' said there was no longer ''a widespread view of gays and lesbians as contemptible and disgraceful.''
The second judge, Denny Chin, drew a comparison. In 1926, he said, New York's highest court ruled that it was libelous to call a white man ''colored'' or ''Negro.'' Such rulings were common in much of the nation in the first half of the last century; they are unimaginable today in any state. The range of views that may be expressed in respectable circles can be a bellwether in judging what society is ready for, said David A. Bositis, an analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies who has studied the politics of race.
''Part of the evolution of equality obviously includes moving from where statements are viewed as normal and accepted to being socially undesirable,'' he said. ''When some turning points in these struggles are reached, it becomes more and more unsavory to behave in some ways and take certain positions. In polite society, it's no longer considered acceptable to make overtly racist statements.
''But in the case of gay rights,'' he added, ''those turning points still have a ways to go. I certainly can see that day coming. Compared with the civil rights movement for African-Americans, the movement for gay rights has proceeded with a remarkable degree of speed.''
Nathaniel Persily, who teaches law and political science at Columbia, says that today, a person's education level is powerfully predictive of views about same-sex marriage. ''Sometimes the norm of equality penetrates the elite levels first,'' he said. In fact, the change of attitudes has moved farthest in the legal community, which has long embraced gay rights with a particular fervor, a point Justice Antonin Scalia complained about in a 2003 dissent that in a way predicted King & Spalding's decision.
The ''law-professional culture,'' Justice Scalia wrote, ''has largely signed on to the so-called homosexual agenda, by which I mean the agenda promoted by some homosexual activists directed at eliminating the moral opprobrium that has traditionally attached to homosexual conduct.''
The decision Justice Scalia was dissenting from, Lawrence v. Texas, struck down a Texas law that had made gay sex a crime.
For the gay rights movement, that decision was a watershed akin to Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 Supreme Court decision barring racial segregation in public schools, said William N. Eskridge Jr., a professor at Yale Law School and the author of several books on gay rights.
''We're in the post-Brown era,'' he said, ''which for me is post-Lawrence. After Lawrence, there has been a social revolution in America.''
The analogy may be instructive in terms of timing. Thirteen years passed between the Brown decision and Loving v. Virginia, the 1967 Supreme Court decision striking down bans on interracial marriage.
''A large majority of supporters of racial integration and even nondiscrimination in the workplace did not believe that interracial marriage was tolerable,'' Professor Eskridge said. ''In race, the marriage issue was the very last form of discrimination struck down.''
If the comparisons are apt and the same judicial timetable holds, that means bans on same-sex marriage will fall around 2016.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHANGE: Shifts of public opinion, before and after landmark Supreme Court cases, have made what was once socially unacceptable, acceptable.
1954 School Segregation: The Supreme Court says it is inherently unequal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CORBIS)
1967 Interracial Marriage: A Virginia ban rules that it is unconstitutional. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL)
2003 Sodomy Laws: A broad ruling finds a Texas measure unconstitutional. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID J. PHILLIP/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 2011Same-Sex Marriage: Bans are still contested. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); MARRIAGE (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); ETHICS (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); POLITICS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGAL ETHICS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); RACE & RACISM (52%)

COMPANY: KING & SPALDING LLP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



34 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. IS PURSUING WIDER 2012 FIELD AS DEBATE NEARS

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG; Monica Davey contributed reporting from Indianapolis.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Republican leaders, activists and donors, anxious that the party's initial presidential field could squander a chance to capture grass-roots energy and build a strong case against President Obama at the outset of the 2012 race, are stepping up appeals for additional candidates to jump in, starting with Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana.
''I'm getting letters from all over the damn country, and some of them are pretty moving,'' Mr. Daniels said in an interview last week at the Capitol in Indianapolis, where his friends believe he is inching closer to exploring a candidacy. He added, ''It can't help but affect you.''
The first contests of the primary are about eight months away, and most of the candidates have yet to fully open their campaigns. But some party leaders worry that Republicans are making a bad first impression by appearing tentative about their prospects against Mr. Obama and allowing Donald J. Trump to grab headlines in the news vacuum of the race's early stages. 
''The race needs more responsible adults who can actually do the job,'' said Fergus Cullen, a former chairman of the New Hampshire Republican Party.
Former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, who leads many polls despite taking few steps to organize a campaign, is quietly asking supporters to be patient. And Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former governor of Utah and a relative moderate in a party that has moved to the right, has just returned from his post as ambassador to China to decide whether to join a campaign-in-waiting built by Republicans who see an opening for him.
The wish list among Republicans is wide and varied. Sarah Palin, a former governor of Alaska, retains a devoted following. But activists also express a longing for others to step off the sidelines, including Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the chairman of the Budget Committee.
The first debate of the nominating contest is Thursday on Fox News, and party officials believe that the presidential field will be all but set by June, giving urgency to the call for more candidates.
Parties facing an incumbent president often have trouble establishing the stature of their candidates in the early going. But the challenge for Republicans this time is especially striking given Mr. Obama's vulnerabilities and the passion of the grass-roots conservative movement that helped propel the party to big gains in Congress and statehouses in 2010.
The party lacks the establishment-anointed candidate that has led it into every presidential cycle for decades. Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, may come closest to that role, but he has kept a relatively low profile to avoid becoming a target. Newt Gingrich, a former House speaker, is well known but has political and personal liabilities. Newer faces like former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota are barely known to most voters.
There is no guarantee that any Republicans on the sidelines would energize the party, but they seem to be getting almost as much attention as those clearly in the race. Reince Priebus, the Republican National Committee chairman, said last week that the race was still unformed and that he expected others to join.
The loudest and most persistent entreaties are directed toward Mr. Daniels, who for two terms as governor has shown that fiscal conservatism and political popularity can go hand in hand.
Mr. Daniels, who says Republicans should be more focused on addressing the country's fiscal condition, worked in the Reagan administration and as budget director for President George W. Bush. An alumni network of those administrations, ranging from top contributors to field operatives, has elevated a whisper campaign into a forceful effort to enlist him.
The decision last week by another establishment favorite, Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, not to pursue a presidential bid has increased pressure on Mr. Daniels, who drew national attention on Friday for saying he would sign a bill that cuts off Medicaid financing for Planned Parenthood in Indiana. His allies have started mapping out a campaign structure that could be fully in place this month, including a campaign headquarters in downtown Indianapolis.
''What sets Mitch apart from the other candidates who are currently running, he is very, very direct and very open about what needs to be done,'' said Al Hubbard, a director of the National Economic Council. ''I'm disappointed that the other candidates who are currently talking about running are reluctant to do that.''
The call for new candidates, which was the topic of some conversation here Friday at a Republican dinner, is hardly universal. Some Republicans point to the 1992 Democratic field, initially derided as uninspiring, which produced President Bill Clinton.
But there has been an undercurrent of concern in the party for months. The conservative columnist Charles Krauthammer called the field ''split and weak'' two weeks ago on Fox News.
Peter Wehner, a former adviser to Mr. Bush, credited a ''lack of fizz'' in the field so far with letting Mr. Trump gain attention as a potential Republican candidate despite previous contributions to Democrats and even a suggestion for the nation to examine a single-payer health care system.
''At this point, there appears to be a flatness to the field,'' said Mr. Wehner, who has been highly critical of Mr. Trump. ''There's a void right now, and even clowns can fill voids.''
In interviews, Republican governors, state party leaders and prominent activists urged the candidates to engage more directly.
''We've lost enough time -- let's start talking about the issues that matter to the people of this country,'' Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina said. ''I think they're all waiting for 'go time,' but the people of South Carolina are saying 'go.' Let's start hearing about the issues.''
Mr. Pawlenty, who was among the first in the race, said candidates had plenty of time to excite voters. He said a fierce opposition to Mr. Obama would unify Republicans and strengthen the field, adding, ''The faster, the sooner, the more aggressive we can do that, the better.''
As of late last week, it was still unclear how many potential candidates would show up for Thursday's debate. Mr. Pawlenty, who will attend, was urging more of his potential rivals to join him.
While some Republicans have expressed impatience to get the race started in time to raise ample campaign financing, veterans of races past said the money would flow when the field finally settles.
''Hardly anybody's declared yet, so who are you going to rally around?'' said Fred V. Malek, an investor and longtime Republican fund-raiser, who added that he was not concerned about the slow start. ''Contributors are waiting until the field is fully formed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, on Friday in Manchester, N.H. He has taken a low-key approach to his campaign.
Representative Michele Bachmann is weighing a run
 Tim Pawlenty, a former Minnesota governor, was among the first in the race. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); MITCH DANIELS (73%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); RICK PERRY (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); DONALD TRUMP (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (89%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



35 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; SUMMER MOVIES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1806 words

HEADLINE: July

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
July 1
GENERAL ORDERS NO. 9 Robert Persons directed this nonfiction film about the state of Georgia.
LARRY CROWNE After being laid off from his retail job, Larry (Tom Hanks) returns to college, where he meets a cranky but alluring communications professor (Julia Roberts). Mr. Hanks directed; with Taraji P. Henson, Nia Vardalos (also a co-writer of the movie with Mr. Hanks) and Pam Grier.
LOVE CRIME The final film of the French director Alain Corneau (''Tous les Matins du Monde''), who died in August of 2010, is a thriller centered on the rivalry between an executive (Kristin Scott Thomas) and her protege (Ludivine Sagnier).
LOVE ETC. This documentary by Jill Andresevic follows five couples over the course of a year in New York City. 
MONTE CARLO During a Paris vacation, three recent college graduates (Selena Gomez, Leighton Meester, Katie Cassidy) are whisked away to experience the high life of Monaco. Thomas Bezucha directed; with Andie MacDowell and Catherine Tate.
THE PERFECT HOST A bank robber (Clayne Crawford) finds refuge by crashing a dinner party hosted by a prosperous Los Angeleno (David Hyde Pierce). Nick Tomnay directed; with Helen Reddy.
TERRI Azazel Jacobs' follow-up to his indie feature ''Momma's Man'' is the story of a socially outcast teenager (Jacob Wysocki) who is befriended by an overeager vice principal (John C. Reilly).
TRANSFORMERS: DARK OF THE MOON The director Michael Bay brings his busy visual style to 3-D in this latest installment of the popular franchise based on a collection of children's toys. Shia LaBeouf returns as the young man who befriends the warrior robots who disguise themselves as humble, fossil-fuel-driven vehicles, with Rosie Huntington-Whiteley stepping in as his new love interest. With John Turturro, Josh Duhamel and Tyrese Gibson.
July 6
RAPT A French industrialist (Yvan Attal) is kidnapped and held for a 50 million euro ransom; his board of directors isn't sure he's worth it. Lucas Belvaux's film co-stars Anne Consigny and Francoise Fabian.
July 8
BEATS, RHYMES & LIFE: THE TRAVELS OF A TRIBE CALLED QUEST The actor Michael Rapaport (''Zebrahead'') directed this documentary about the innovative hip-hop band A Tribe Called Quest, from its formation in 1985 through its breakup in 1998.
HORRIBLE BOSSES Jason Bateman, Jason Sudeikis and Charlie Day conspire to kill the employers (Kevin Spacey, Colin Farrell, Jennifer Aniston) who make their lives miserable. Seth Gordon (''Four Christmases'') directed; with Jamie Foxx and Donald Sutherland.
THE LEDGE From Sundance, a thriller with a philosophical edge: a Christian fundamentalist (Patrick Wilson) forces an avowed atheist (Charlie Hunnam) out on the ledge of a tall building, telling him that if he jumps and kills himself, he'll save someone else's life. With Liv Tyler and Terrence Howard; Matthew Chapman wrote and directed.
ONE DAY The Danish director Lone Scherfig (''An Education'') returns with a film based on David Nicholls's best-selling novel, which charts the history of a couple (Anne Hathaway and Jim Sturgess) by checking in with them once a year, on the same date, over a 20-year period.
PROJECT NIM From the director James Marsh (''Man on Wire''), a documentary about Nim Chimpsky, a chimpanzee raised in the 1970s as a human child.
SHOLEM ALEICHEM: LAUGHING IN THE DARKNESS The beloved Yiddish author is profiled in a documentary directed by Joseph Dorman.
THE WEIRD WORLD OF BLOWFLY How the Miami musician Clarence Reid turned himself into the X-rated rapper Blowfly, in a documentary directed by Jonathan Furmanski.
ZOOKEEPER A lonely zookeeper (Kevin James) gets advice on finding love from his charges, who, it turns out, have secretly been able to talk all along. With Rosario Dawson and the voices of Cher, Nick Nolte, Adam Sandler and Sylvester Stallone. Frank Coraci (''The Waterboy'') directed.
July 15
DAYLIGHT A pregnant woman (Alexandra Meierhans) and her husband are kidnapped during a driving vacation in a micro-budget thriller directed by David Barker (''Afraid of Everything'').
HARRY POTTER AND THE DEATHLY HALLOWS: PART 2 And so after 10 years the saga comes to a conclusion, in 3-D yet. With, of course, Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson, and in the ensemble, Helena Bonham Carter, Jim Broadbent, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis, Tom Felton, Ralph Fiennes, Michael Gambon, Ciaran Hinds, John Hurt, Jason Isaacs, Matthew Lewis, Gary Oldman, Alan Rickman, Maggie Smith, David Thewlis, Emma Thompson, Julie Walters and Bonnie Wright. David Yates directed.
LIFE ABOVE ALL A 12-year-old girl fights prejudice in a contemporary South African village. Oliver Schmitz directed from Allan Stratton's novel ''Chanda's Secrets.''
LUCKY Colin Hanks as a sweet young serial killer who wins the state lottery and promptly marries his money-minded high school sweetheart (Ari Graynor). She learns his secret and has to decide between turning him in and enjoying his cash. Gil Cates Jr. directed; with Jeffrey Tambor, Mimi Rogers and Ann-Margret.
MY AFTERNOONS WITH MARGUERITTE A lovable, semi-literate working-class lug (Gerard Depardieu) learns to appreciate the glories of literature through his friendship with an elderly woman (Gisele Casadesus). Jean Becker (''Conversations With My Gardener'') directed from a novel by Marie-Sabine Roger; with Patrick Bouchitey and Sophie Guillemin.
SNOW FLOWER AND THE SECRET FAN Wayne Wang directs an adaptation of Lisa See's novel, about two girls in 19th century China who communicate through a secret language; in a parallel story set in present-day Shanghai, their descendants struggle to maintain their friendship despite the pressures of family and career. With Bingbing Li, Gianna Jun, Hugh Jackman and Vivian Wu.
WINNIE THE POOH Disney looks to revive its dormant ''Winnie the Pooh'' franchise with a new animated feature directed by Stephen J. Anderson and Don Hall. The voices include Jim Cummings, John Cleese, Craig Ferguson and Tom Kenny.
July 20
THE WOMAN WITH THE 5 ELEPHANTS The story of 85-year-old Svetlana Geier, who translated Dostoyevsky's five major novels -- the ''five elephants'' -- into German, despite a traumatic childhood in Nazi-occupied Ukraine. Vadim Jendreyko directed this 2009 documentary.
July 22
ANOTHER EARTH The discovery of a parallel Earth behind the Sun holds out the possibility of redemption for a guilt-ridden young astronomy student (Brit Marling). Mike Cahill directed; with William Mapother.
CAPTAIN AMERICA: THE FIRST AVENGER Rejected by the Army, a skinny young man volunteers for an operation and emerges as the World War II superhero Captain America (Chris Evans). With Hayley Atwell, Tommy Lee Jones, Stanley Tucci and Hugo Weaving as a very bad German. In 3-D, under the period-sensitive direction of Joe Johnston (''The Rocketeer'').
FRIENDS WITH BENEFITS Two acquaintances (Justin Timberlake and Mila Kunis) try to keep their relationship strictly sexual, but other feelings intrude. From the director Will Gluck (''Easy A''); with Richard Jenkins, Rashida Jones, Woody Harrelson and Patricia Clarkson.
MYTH OF THE AMERICAN SLEEPOVER It's the last night of summer and four suburban Detroit teenagers contemplate the end of their adolescence. David Robert Mitchell wrote and directed.
POINT BLANK Fred Cavaye directed this French thriller about a male nurse whose pregnant wife is kidnapped; the only way he can ransom her is to free a criminal being held in his ward. With Gilles Lellouche, Roschdy Zem, Gerard Lanvin and Elena Anaya.
PROTEKTOR Marek Najbrt directed this drama set in Prague at the outbreak of World War II, starring Marek Daniel as a radio reporter and Jana Plodkova as his wife, a film star whose Jewish heritage puts her in danger.
SARAH'S KEY An American journalist in Paris (Kristin Scott Thomas) discovers that her husband's family acquired their apartment under dubious circumstances: when the previous owners were carried away in the notorious Vel d'Hiv roundup of Jews in 1942. Gilles Paquet-Brenner directed from a novel by Tatiana De Rosnay; with Niels Arestrup and Aidan Quinn.
SENNA A documentary directed by Asif Kapadia about Ayrton Senna, a Brazilian Formula One champion.
July 27
EL BULLI: COOKING IN PROGRESS A German documentary about the Spanish chef Ferran Adria, as he and his team design new dishes for the 30-course menu at his acclaimed restaurant, El Bulli, near Roses, Spain. Gereon Wetzel directed.
July 29
ALL IN Douglas Tirola's documentary examines the popular resurgence of the game of poker.
COWBOYS AND ALIENS Baddies from outer space attempt a takeover of the American West in 1878, but they haven't counted on the frontier spirit (Harrison Ford). Directed by Jon Favreau; with Olivia Wilde, Daniel Craig and Sam Rockwell.
CRAZY, STUPID, LOVE In a troubled marriage and in his 40s, Steve Carell signs up as a wingman to a dashing young womanizer (Ryan Gosling). Directed by Glenn Ficarra and John Requa; with Julianne Moore, Analeigh Tipton, Emma Stone, Jonah Bobo, John Carroll Lynch, Marisa Tomei and Kevin Bacon.
THE DEVIL'S DOUBLE In pre-Bush Baghdad, an Iraqi Army officer (Dominic Cooper) is assigned to act as the body double of Saddam Hussein's son Uday. With Ludivine Sagnier; Lee Tamahori directed.
THE FUTURE A talking cat narrates Miranda July's new feature, about a Los Angeles couple, played by Ms. July and Hamish Linklater, desperate to climb out of the rut they have dug for themselves.
GOOD NEIGHBORS A serial killer stalks a Montreal neighborhood in 1995 in a thriller directed by Jacob Tierney (''The Trotsky''). With Scott Speedman, Xavier Dolan and Jay Baruchel.
THE GUARD Brendan Gleeson as an easygoing policeman in a small Irish town; he's shaken out of his complacency when a no-nonsense F.B.I. agent (Don Cheadle) shows up, on the trail of an international drug ring. Written and directed by John Michael McDonagh; with Mark Strong and Fionnula Flanagan.
LIFE IN A DAY A film spun out of videos uploaded to YouTube on July 24, 2010. Kevin Macdonald (''The Last King of Scotland'') directed.
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY After ''Bluebeard,'' the French provocatrice Catherine Breillat takes on another classic fairy tale. Her sleeping beauty (Carla Besainou) has a rich dream life involving adventure and adolescent love affairs.
SMURFS Little blue people of mysterious origin turn up in New York City, where they make friends with Neil Patrick Harris. Raja Gosnell directed in 3-D; with the voices of Jonathan Winters, Katy Perry, Alan Cumming, George Lopez, Paul Reubens and Wolfgang Puck (as Chef Smurf).
Correction: May 22, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An entry in the July film listings on May 1 in the Summer Movies section, about ''All In,'' a documentary about the resurgence in poker's popularity, misspelled the surname of the film's director. He is Douglas Tirola, not Triola.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Julia Roberts portrays a professor and Tom Hanks an unemployed man hitting the books in ''Larry Crowne,'' directed by Mr. Hanks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE TALAMON/UNIVERSAL PICTURES)(MT18)
Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter and Ralph Fiennes as Lord Voldemort in ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES)
 Bridger Zadina, left, as Chad, and Jacob Wysocki, right, as the title character in ''Terri,'' directed by Azazel Jacobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATO PICTURES)(MT19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); WRITERS (78%); FILM (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (70%); FUNDAMENTALISM (68%); BANK ROBBERY (67%); TOYS & GAMES (63%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%); RELIGION (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%)

PERSON: TOM HANKS (91%); MICHAEL BAY (79%); JULIA ROBERTS (73%); JENNIFER ANISTON (58%); DANIEL RADCLIFFE (58%); SELENA GOMEZ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (57%); MONACO (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



36 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Who's Showing Up Late for the Class War?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Bipartisan March to Fiscal Madness'' (Op-Ed, April 24), David A. Stockman comes close to expressing the most reasonable public viewpoint on the financial madness of the budget battle. But it's still pretty far from the mark. 
He worries that ''we are about to descend into class war'' but fails to recognize that his own damning figures on the redistribution of wealth show that the class war is well under way, if not already over. In fact, the Citizens United decision may have been the treaty of surrender.
In an interview in February, Bill O'Reilly asked President Obama about the impression that he believes in the redistribution of wealth. The president missed a fantastic opportunity to set the terms of the debate by pointing out that the wealth has already been redistributed. When I voted for him, that's the kind of courage I hoped he would exhibit. But who can blame him now, with the endless disinformation and bullying from the right?
I worry that we've been talking about the wrong ''entitlements.'' Compare the expectation of a comfortable retirement, treatment for your cancer or an education for your child to the right to be ultra-rich or the right of a corporation to pay low or no taxes. That is the choice of values before us now in the two competing budget plans.
STUART BERNSTEIN New York, April 24, 2011
To the Editor:
David A. Stockman calls for means-testing in the Social Security and Medicare programs. This is a bad idea for two reasons: it would increase costs hugely and discourage eligible people from applying.
Because income often varies over time, eligibility would have to be redetermined repeatedly. Multiply that by the 54 million Social Security recipients and the tens of millions of people drawing Medicare benefits and you see the enormous additional cost.
Moreover, Social Security has a progressive benefit formula favoring low and modest income. So, if the purpose is to reduce benefits for upper-income recipients, that's already being done. Beyond that, the Social Security benefits of high earners are subjected to income tax with the proceeds going to Social Security.
MERTON C. BERNSTEIN Brewster, Mass., April 24, 2011
The writer, emeritus professor of law at Washington University in St. Louis, was the principal consultant to the 1982-83 National Commission on Social Security Reform.
To the Editor:
It is difficult to disagree with David A. Stockman's description, analysis and solution to the country's fiscal challenges. However, as a former House member, he should know better.
Members of Congress and the Obama administration know very well the medicines -- and their side effects -- that must be administered to the country to restore fiscal sanity. They just don't know how to get re-elected after administering them.
IRA SOHN Upper Montclair, N.J., April 24, 2011
The writer is a professor of economics and finance, Montclair State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WRITERS (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); MEDICARE (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



37 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIRST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: They Could Be Heroes

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER. 
Bill Keller is the executive editor of The Times.

 BODY:
My colleague David Leonhardt, an economics writer who somehow makes common sense seem provocative, won a Pulitzer Prize the other day. I have no doubt the judges who reviewed his work were particularly impressed by one feat of analytical genius, an online puzzle called ''O.K., You Fix the Budget.'' With help from some of our techno-genies, David devised an interactive graphic that lets you choose from a menu of tax increases and spending cuts and benefit tweaks until the budget balances. In short, he crowd-sourced the deficit.
Nearly 9,000 readers worked the puzzle. Individually, they were all over the map. But as a group, they accomplished the goal by splitting the difference: almost exactly half the savings came from tax increases, half from spending cuts. Collectively, readers seemed to realize that the hole we're in is too deep to be filled by tax increases alone or spending cuts alone.
The result is broadly consistent with polls, which show that a majority of American voters hate most tax increases and a majority hate cutting entitlements, but -- confronted with a choice of one, the other or some of each -- they'll go for the hybrid. The hive mind, it seems, is open to compromise. 
Sadly, one of the defects of our representative democracy is that it is almost impossible to get there from here, especially when the political climate is as toxic as it is now. Even in good times, democracy works better for gratification than for sacrifice. Leaders who are perceived as excessively limber on matters of core dogma get howled down by the Death Eaters of the left or, more often these days, the right -- the party purists who have the power to kill careers. Vested interests, when threatened, deploy their campaign cash and their professional persuaders.
On the question of the national debt, all the forces of stagnation are at their worst: we're like Israel, where there is something very close to a grudging consensus about a two-state peace, but every attempt to enact it is hogtied by democracy. Thus the formal budget debate is currently framed as an ugly standoff between Representative Paul Ryan, whose plan uses the debt as a pretext to radically shrivel the government, and President Obama, whose response is essentially ''Over my dead body.''
That's why I'm rooting for the Gang of Six -- the three Republican and three Democratic senators who have set out to negotiate a credible deficit plan that can move Congress past paralysis and toward compromise.
The six range in ideology from Richard Durbin, Illinois liberal and Obama confidant, to Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma conservative who came to Washington as part of the Newt Gingrich revolution. They are united by very little except an evangelical conviction that deficits are a time bomb, an immersion in the subject (most are either Budget Committee members or veterans of a past debt commission) and an old-school frustration with what Senator Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat, calls ''the meat grinder in Washington.''
The details of their plan are still closely held. It's a sure bet they will use the word ''reform'' a lot. They will exalt the nobility of shared sacrifice. They will draft proposals so that both sides can claim victory. It is possible, for example, to simultaneously cut tax rates for everyone (conservative win) and make the tax code more progressive (liberal win) by eliminating exemptions that mostly benefit the affluent. Most important, says Conrad, who also happens to be chairman of the Budget Committee, is that lawmakers be offered a single hard vote on a comprehensive package.
Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat who as governor managed to get a package of tax increases and spending cuts through his Republican Legislature, says the Gang of Six has the advantage of being pretty much the last resort, because the normal legislative machinery seizes up when structural reforms are needed.
''The idea that we're going to come up with reform of our tax code, reform of our entitlements, dramatic cuts in both domestic and military spending, and do it in the normal seesaw of the legislative process -- it's inconceivable,'' he told me.
The popular culture tends to treat ''politician'' as a synonym for ''craven.'' But I think the Gang of Six is the kind of undertaking that should give politics a good name. After all, true believers are usually the ones who get us into wars; negotiators get us out of them. Revolutionaries are the people to see if you're trying to overthrow a bad government; politicians are the folks to call if you're building a better one.
In my experience, the great reformers tend to have three things in common. They are optimists, because reform begins with a sense that things can be better. They have the courage to stand up not only to their adversaries but also to their allies. And they can bend. People tend to remember Nelson Mandela as the moral champion who liberated South Africa by suffering in prison for 27 years. The fact is he liberated South Africa by sitting down and cutting a deal with the white leaders who put him in prison.
I'm not suggesting that the Gang of Six is a sextet of Nelson Mandelas. Rake over their records and you will turn up episodes of political hackery and opinions that will make you recoil. But their deficit venture is thankless, bet-your-career work. Think of the first President Bush, who in an earlier time of debt worry initiated an informal deficit negotiation, gamely compromised on his read-my-lips tax pledge and so alienated conservatives that he lost the next election. Or take John McCain, who failed in his informal effort to forge a cross-party deal on immigration (and his more formal campaign for president) and has come to seem like a man with post-bipartisan stress disorder. Two of the current Six have said they are not running again, and Warner seems secure, but Durbin and the Republicans Saxby Chambliss of Georgia and Mike Crapo of Idaho risk the vengeance of their bases.
Historians of Congress will tell you that these ''Gang of'' workarounds -- which have become more common in the years since public service became a permanent re-election campaign -- have often failed to achieve critical mass or been sabotaged by partisans who saw no advantage in sharing a victory. Remember that Senator Max Baucus and the 2009 Gang of Six tried to break the impasse over health care reform until the pilloried Republican members bailed out. And a few weeks ago, Congressional party leaders appointed representatives to another bipartisan deficit Gang, which is composed mostly of partisan die-hards and already is showing signs of rigor mortis.
Members tell me the Gang of Six intends to spring its plan in the next few weeks, and they have been gaming the process for procedural tricks to assure that their work is not nibbled to death or driven into a legislative cul de sac.
''I certainly hope this leads to a result,'' Conrad told the Swampland blog, ''because otherwise I'm going to have wasted five years of my life.''
History should prepare him for disappointment. But if he's right, I propose that next we send the six of them to Jerusalem.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An essay on May 1about the so-called Gang of Six bipartisan Senate group working on a deficit reduction proposal referred imprecisely to Senator Richard Durbin. He is an Illinois liberal, not a Chicago liberal. (Durbin grew up in East St. Louis, Ill., and as a congressman, he represented a district that included most of Springfield.)

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY THE ILLUSTRATION BY MARK WEAVER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); CROWDSOURCING (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); RELIGION (64%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); RICHARD DURBIN (50%); TOM COBURN (50%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



38 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
AFTER STINT IN CHINA,
ENVOY PONDERS WHITE HOUSE
When President Obama selected Jon M. Huntsman Jr., then the popular Republican governor of Utah, as the United States' ambassador to China in 2009, pundits speculated that the president was working to edge him out of the race for the 2012 Republican nomination. Now that Mr. Huntsman is publicly pondering a run for the nomination anyway the question may not be whether his China stint hurt his chances, but whether it improved them. PAGE 8
DEFIANT SPEECH BY QADDAFI
As NATO warplanes bombed Tripoli, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi delivered a disjointed speech on Libyan state television offering a cease-fire while pledging not to leave the country. PAGE 14 
TACKING TOWARD BRAZIL
In a transformation this year that points to the eclipse of Venezuela by Brazil, Ollanta Humala, who is again running for president of Peru, has explicitly rejected talk of seizing private companies and celebrated Brazil's market-oriented economic model, while distancing himself from Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez. PAGE 10
PROTESTS IN BURKINA FASO
A whiff of North African-style protest came to Ouagadougou, the sub-Saharan capital of Burkina Faso, as thousands descended on a central square to demand the departure of the country's longtime ruler, Blaise Compaore, who has held power for 24 years in one of the world's poorest countries. PAGE 10
SYRIA SENDS TROOPS TO TOWN
Backed by tanks, helicopters and snipers, the Syrian military seized a landmark mosque that had become a center of protests in the besieged southern town of Dara'a, killing at least six people in an escalation of a weeklong crackdown, residents and activists said. Page 12
National
IN SEARCH FOR F.B.I. DIRECTOR,
A LOOK FOR A NEW APPROACH
President Obama, having settled on his choices for the next leaders of the Defense Department and the Central Intelligence Agency, is now turning toward filling a third major national security position: director of the F.B.I. Officials want a director who will press agents to focus less on solving already completed crimes and more on uncovering potential threats -- even at the expense of accumulating arrests and convictions. PAGE 26
PORTLAND REJOINS TASK FORCE
After five months of public debate in Portland, Ore. -- and as the case of a Somali-born teenager accused of plotting to detonate a bomb at a Christmas tree lighting ceremony there moves slowly -- city leaders approved what one City Council member called a ''very Portland'' compromise to rejoin the Joint Terrorism Task Force, which the Department of Justice operates in cities across the country to unite federal, state and local law enforcement authorities. PAGE 31
A FOCUS ON ELDERLY MINDS
A growing number of experts are calling for integrating mental health professionals into all levels of communities for the rising population of aging Americans, particularly in Florida, to help deal with the depression, anxiety and sleep disorders also accompany old age. PAGE 22
Metropolitan
GROWING CHARD
IN CONCRETE GARDENS
A group called Farming Concrete set out to try to quantify how much produce is being grown in New York's community gardens. It asked gardeners to record the number of vegetable plants they had, and weigh their crops. They found that the 67 community gardens that participated racked up 87,700 pounds of produce, worth at least $200,000, the group concluded. PAGE 1
Sports
GRIZZLIES' RISE IS ROOTED
IN MUCH-CRITICIZED TRADE
The only dynasty Memphis has been involved in is the Lakers', helping to kick-start their latest run of titles through the lopsided Pau Gasol trade three years ago. The trade cast Memphis as a small-market punch line, willing to cut corners and save on salaries. But in the playoffs for the first time since the deal, the Grizzlies eliminated the Spurs, becoming only the fourth No. 8 seed to beat a No. 1 seed, and only the second in a seven-game series. Memphis has made it this far by a crooked route, with an unheralded roster and the fruits reaped from the Gasol trade. PAGE 1
SOLDIER AIMS FOR N.F.L.
Since he arrived at Fort Sill in Lawton, Okla., last fall, Collin Mooney's job as a second lieutenant for an artillery battery unit has involved training hundreds of privates in preparation for deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. In the early morning and evening, he has been the one training, putting himself through various football drills in the hope that with his mandatory two-year service requirement fulfilled, he can find a spot on an N.F.L. roster. PAGE 7
Obituaries
BILL BLACKBEARD, 84
An author, editor, anthologist and ardent accumulator, he is widely credited with helping save the American newspaper comic strip from the scrap heap, amassing a collection considered the most comprehensive ever assembled. PAGE 34
T: Style
A FEW STEPS ABOVE THE TYPICAL MAN CAVE
When Alexandre de Betak designed his dream home in Spain, he left no stone unturned. Page 66
Sunday Business
IN CHINA, ARTISTS MAKE
A COMMERCIAL STATEMENT
Call them China's youth whisperers. From Harbin in the north to Guangzhou in the south, young artists, musicians and designers are being tapped to make companies' brands cool. At the center of this experiment is NeochaEdge, the first and only creative agency of its type in China. Page 1
SHARING IS FINE; JUST ASK
Many Web site visitors are willing to share personal information about themselves -- provided that their consent is obtained first. Facebook figured this out the hard way, and now Apple and Google are learning that their users will not automatically assume that everything the companies do out of view is in their customers' best interests. Page 3
Automobiles
A GRAFFITI ARTIST
AND HIS THUNDERBIRD
From 1972 to 1984, Steven Ogburn was one of the most prolific graffiti writers in New York. Retiring from painting trains, he showed his art in galleries around the world, his father bought a Thunderbird new in 1972, for $5,800, and passed it down to him a few years later. The car has been on the road since. With minor upgrades, of course. PAGE 1
Magazine
THE BEAST IN THE HEART
OF THE FIGHTING MAN
American soldiers are accused of murdering three Afghan civilians. The question arrives of whether it was a case of random violence or something pointing to a much deeper problem. Page 34
Arts & Leisure
THE ART AT THESE AUCTIONS
NEEDS NO INTRODUCTION
This season, big auction houses are offering works that even those without much knowledge of art history will instantly recognize. Page 1
Book Review
A NOVEL WITH A WILL
TO DECEIVE THE READER
Somewhere under the floorboards of ''The Tragedy of Arthur,'' Arthur Phillips's splendidly devious novel, is a real-life event, writes Stephen Greenblatt. Page 1
Editorial
THE RYAN PLAN FOR MEDICAID
COULD PROVE TO BE A BAD DEAL
A good deal for the federal government could turn out to be a very bad one for state governments. Week in Review, Page 9
Op-ed
MAUREEN DOWD
Yearning for a triumph of hope over experience, we want this fairy tale to end happily ever after. Week in Review, Page 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); CITIES (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); TERRORISM (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); AGING TRENDS (61%); POPULATION GROWTH (61%); CHRISTMAS (60%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (88%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) OREGON, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); BURKINA FASO (93%); BRAZIL (93%); SYRIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); PERU (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



39 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Grizzlies Found Answer In Questionable Trade

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

 BODY:
Michael Heisley lived in Chicago at the dawn of Michael Jordan's era. He saw the arena full and the championships celebrated, and he envisioned his own dynasty when he bought the Vancouver Grizzlies in 2000.
''It just seemed like it wasn't that hard,'' Heisley said of the Bulls in a recent phone interview. ''They would refuel every year, get a couple of new players and move on.''
Heisley, a billionaire financier, now describes building a quality N.B.A. team as his most difficult business endeavor. The only dynasty Memphis has been involved in is the Los Angeles Lakers', helping to kick-start their latest run of titles through the lopsided Pau Gasol trade three years ago. Sensing a conference shift at the time, Coach Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs, who had one of the top teams in the West, politicked for a league trade committee to ''scratch all trades that make no sense.''
The Lakers are now aiming for a third championship headed by a tandem of Gasol and Kobe Bryant. The trade cast Memphis as a small-market punch line, willing to cut corners and save on salaries, and would have been vetoed as too one-sided by nearly every fantasy league because the Grizzlies traded their best player for no proven ones. 
But in the playoffs this year for the first time since the deal, the Grizzlies eliminated the Spurs with a 99-91 victory in Game 6 Friday night. Memphis became only the fourth No. 8 seed to beat a No. 1 seed, and only the second in a seven-game series. The Grizzlies have made it this far by a crooked route, with an unheralded roster and the fruits reaped from the Gasol trade.
''It was a high-risk situation,'' Heisley said. ''It worked out well for L.A. and it worked out well for us. I didn't give any thought that I was making L.A. a championship team. We gave thought to the fact we were not going anywhere, and the one chip we had to play was Pau, and we took a risk and we were able to build another team out of it. We couldn't get there with one player.''
The team's past, present and future are tied to the Gasol trade. Memphis, a city rich in amateur and college basketball, had tuned out the Grizzlies, who kept the odd-fitting nickname when they moved from Canada in 2001 after cycling through losses, coaches and draft picks who refused to play there. Gasol, more of a complementary star than an outright one, led Memphis to three playoff series in six seasons, but the Grizzlies were swept, 4-0, all three times.
Heisley and General Manager Chris Wallace said that it was known throughout the league that Gasol was available during the 2007-8 season, and that the Lakers were the best and most willing partner. The Grizzlies received Kwame Brown, Javaris Crittenton, Aaron McKie, the rights to Marc Gasol (Pau's younger brother) and two first-round draft picks.
But through those picks and trades, that package was flipped to create a large chunk of Memphis's core: Marc Gasol, Zach Randolph, Darrell Arthur, Hamed Haddadi, Greivis Vasquez and Sam Young.
''We couldn't sit back and say over the course of Pau's contract that we could get him LeBron, or Chris Paul or Paul Pierce,'' Wallace said. ''We weren't going anywhere as a franchise, and the town was totally apathetic about our team and we had to try something.''
San Antonio and Oklahoma City, whom the Grizzlies will play in the second round, have provided the blueprint for small-market teams to compete in the current economic model: draft well with a combination of luck and smarts, use trades to plug gaps and view free agency cautiously and carefully.
Memphis is following the model with success, despite various speed bumps. There was the short-lived Allen Iverson experiment and the disastrous drafting of Hasheem Thabeet, the No. 2 overall pick in 2009, who did not progress and was traded this season. This season there was the near trade of O. J. Mayo, whose troubled year included a fight with a teammate and a 10-game suspension for violating the league policy on performance-enhancing drugs.
Through it all, a scrappy team persists. For a second straight season, Memphis led the N.B.A. in points in the paint, with 51.5, fully 6 points higher than any other N.B.A. team.
The bulk of them can be attributed to Gasol, who spent two of his high school years in Memphis, and Randolph, who has a knack for finishing. Randolph scored 31 points, including 17 in the fourth quarter, in the series-clinching win. Memphis led the league in forced turnovers (16.7 per game) and steals (9.4) and finished second in points off turnovers (19.4).
Tony Allen and Michael Conley are active defenders who pressure the ball, and Memphis is persevering without its best player, Rudy Gay, who is out with a shoulder injury.
Shane Battier, who played for the Grizzlies during their first five seasons in Memphis and returned to the team this season in the trade for Thabeet, hit the clinching 3-pointer for the franchise's first victory in a playoff game, in Game 1 against the Spurs. He then rushed to Houston for the birth of his daughter.
And the core of the team will be together for a while. Gay, Conley and Randolph are locked into long-term deals, and the Grizzlies are intent on keeping Marc Gasol, who will be a restricted free agent. ''This team is what Memphis is all about,'' said Elliot Perry, the team's radio analyst, who grew up in Memphis and finished his pro career with the Grizzlies. ''It's a team that brings a lunch box to work every day. They're a working team.''
Like many other small-market teams, the Grizzlies lost money in recent years. Despite last season's hopeful 40 wins, Memphis averaged 14,650 fans this season, the fourth lowest in the league. Whenever a popular team arrived from out of town, visiting colors seemed prevalent in the crowd.
But when the playoff series returned to Memphis, Game 6 sold out in five minutes.
''Emotion is high, not just for the Memphis Grizzlies but for the whole city of Memphis and the fans,'' Randolph told reporters after Friday's victory. ''It's something. It's a great accomplishment. We've got to be happy. We should be happy. But it's a quick turnaround. We've got a game Sunday, and we have to get ready.''
Correction: May 8, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the Memphis Grizzlies' successful playoff run three years after making a much-maligned trade misstated Shane Battier's history with the franchise. Battier is the only player on the Grizzlies' current roster to have played for the team in 2001, its first season in Memphis after moving from Vancouver; he is not the lone member of the team to have played with the organization in Vancouver. (Battier was drafted by the Grizzlies in 2001 the week before the move to Memphis received the final approval from the N.B.A.; he never played for the team in Vancouver.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Grizzlies began to build in 2008 by trading their star, Pau Gasol, and obtaining the rights to Marc Gasol (33), his brother. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BROWN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 The owner Michael Heisley congratulated Zach Randolph after a Memphis playoff win. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE MURPHEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); CYCLING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMPHIS GRIZZLIES (94%); VANCOUVER GRIZZLIES (94%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (83%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (83%); CHICAGO BULLS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); KOBE BRYANT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (56%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); TEXAS, USA (56%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



40 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Less Fleet, but More Mature, Foxes

BYLINE: By WILL HERMES

 BODY:
IT was the autumn of Robin Pecknold's discontent.
Last October Mr. Pecknold, the singer-songwriter -- hair pulled into a ponytail and reddish-brown beard roaming free -- was nibbling an asparagus roll at a sushi joint on Ninth Avenue in Manhattan, fretting over what he'd thought was a finished album by his band, Fleet Foxes. He and the producer Phil Ek had flown to New York from their home base in Seattle to do final mixing at Sear Sound, a boutique studio on West 48th Street known for its analog recording.
But upon relistening to the tracks Mr. Pecknold realized that the record, in fact, was not finished. The final segment of a three-part song needed rethinking. Some louder tracks needed more punch. And, perhaps most disturbingly, certain songs and arrangements made the LP sound, as he put it, ''like it exists a little bit too much in the context of contemporary indie rock.''
''I'm optimistically crestfallen,'' Mr. Pecknold concluded. Outside the restaurant he sucked nervously on a cigarette, smiled widely but wanly, and bid adieu, heading back to Seattle and back to work. 
Now the second-guessing is over, and the record, titled ''Helplessness Blues,'' is slated for release by Sub Pop on Tuesday. It's a rich, handsome set of songs, often centered on acoustic guitars, marked by sumptuous vocal harmonies but with an emphasis on Mr. Pecknold's introspective lyrics. It's a throwback to the late '60s sounds of Crosby, Stills and Nash; Simon and Garfunkel; and other period acts. At the same time, Mr. Pecknold's apprehensions notwithstanding, it also exists very much ''in the context of contemporary indie rock'' -- in part because his group has had a hand in shaping that context.
''Helplessness Blues'' follows Fleet Foxes' self-titled 2008 debut, a set of woodsy, imagistic folk-rock songs that struck a chord with a remarkably broad range of music fans. It sold 400,000 physical copies in the United States and 700,000 in Europe, striking numbers for a small-label debut of this sort, with equally impressive digital sales. It received a rare 9.0 rating from the tastemaking Web site Pitchfork, known for its 20-something readership. It was also selected as Album of the Year in an online poll conducted by National Public Radio, whose demographic skews quite a bit older. The record earned the band a spot on ''Saturday Night Live''; on the coveted point-of-purchase racks in Starbucks; and, apparently, on the playlists of innumerable restaurants throughout the country that serve local produce.
The album also became something of a stylistic bellwether. Along with Panda Bear's ''Person Pitch'' in 2007, Grizzly Bear's ''Veckatimest'' in 2009 and Dirty Projectors' ''Bitte Orca'' in 2010 it heralded indie rock's infatuation with extravagant vocal harmonies, an abstracted flashback to the days of street-corner doo-wop that feels appropriate to tough economic times, in its implicit low overhead and reliance on community. All of this attention threw Mr. Pecknold, 25, for a loop, and ratcheted up expectations for ''Helplessness Blues.'' Meanwhile his songwriting had shifted from the fablelike song narratives -- most written before he was 21 -- that defined the first album.
''I can't go back to the place that allowed me to write that way,'' he said last month via phone from his new home base in Portland, Ore. ''Now I'm enjoying writing more directly about myself, I guess.''
The new songs sound like someone coming of age and thinking hard about his place in the world. The record begins with the declaration ''So now I am older/than my mother and father/when they had their daughter,'' the singer wondering what that says about his own life choices. On ''Bedouin Dress'' he weighs his tendency to take and not return -- whether in reference to love or hedge trimmers he doesn't specify. On the title track Mr. Pecknold considers his individuality, then decides he would ''Rather be/a functioning cog in some great/machinery, serving something beyond me.''
A chat with Mr. Pecknold is a similar exercise in close self-examination. He begins an answer, doubles back to rephrase, punctuates his thoughts with qualifiers and apologizes for conversation that might be ''too much like therapy.'' Your heart goes out to him -- it must be exhausting sometimes -- but it's also endearing and admirable in a world of flippant sound bites and ill-considered Twitter memes.
Mr. Pecknold grew up in Seattle, the youngest of three, and performed in musical theater in high school. His sister, Aja (named, yes, for the Steely Dan song), was struck by his talent when she heard him sing Bob Dylan's ''Boots of Spanish Leather.'' He was 14; she was 21. He began writing his own songs. She wrote about music for Seattle Weekly and started helping her brother when, amid the buzz over his band's debut LP, touring suddenly spiked. (''There was a clear need for someone to step in and handle the chaos,'' she said from Seattle.) As things snowballed, Ms. Pecknold began functioning as the band's manager; their brother, Sean Pecknold, stepped in to handle photography. Even their dad, Greg, a musician himself, got into the act, customizing guitars and other instruments for the band.
Oh yes: the band. The guitarist Skyler Skjelset has been making music with Mr. Pecknold since the two were in high school. The keyboardist and multi-instrumentalist Casey Wescott joined them around 2006, followed by the bassist Christian Wargo and the drummer Josh Tillman. Morgan Henderson, who plays woodwinds and upright bass, signed on during the recording of the new record. Mr. Pecknold has always been the songwriter, leader and frontman. But his centrality grew even greater during the making of ''Helplessness Blues.'' Rather than shaping songs collectively during practice sessions, as they did for their debut, Mr. Pecknold delivered songs that were more fully developed; arrangements were often worked out via e-mail.
The intimate lyrics presented a challenge for a group branded by its choral harmonies. ''A lot of songs expressed sentiments that didn't sound right being performed by four guys,'' said Mr. Wescott, who wrote many of the vocal arrangements. Consequently Mr. Pecknold sings alone on many parts of the record or -- on ''Someone You'd Admire'' and ''Bedouin Dress'' -- alongside his own multi-tracked voice. On the five-part harmony section of the title track Mr. Wescott curbed his contrapuntal tendencies in favor of a unified wash of voices. ''We treaded very carefully,'' he said. ''The parts were rewritten many, many times.''
Arrangements were also a balancing act, employing modest instruments that would not overdramatize the songs. They included zithers, Tibetan singing bowls (Mr. Wescott took a tuner into the storeroom of a New Age shop and tried more than 300 bowls until he got the correct tones) and a Challen upright piano, the vintage British parlor instrument best known for its appearance on the Beatles's ''Day in the Life.'' (The band encountered one during a trip to Abbey Road Studios in London.) They all addressed the songs' emotional koans in their own way. At the end of the multi-part ''Shrine/An Argument'' Mr. Henderson double-tracks riotous bass-clarinet lines in what amounts to a shouting match between id and ego.
The shift in Mr. Pecknold's writing came partly of necessity. In early 2010 the harp-playing singer-songwriter Joanna Newsom asked him to open some shows for her. ''I'd heard him play solo in recorded form a few times before -- like the song 'Blue Spotted Tail,' which I thought was the most beautiful thing I'd ever heard,'' she wrote in an e-mail. ''I felt like a whole set of his songs performed like that, just him and a guitar, would really be something to see.''
Since much of the Fleet Foxes material was ill suited to a single voice, Mr. Pecknold shaped a batch of new songs as solo vehicles, and these became the core of ''Helplessness Blues.'' In March he even released three songs under his own name via his Twitter account (@fleetfoxes). One, ''I'm Losing Myself,'' finds him collaborating with Ed Droste, the lead singer of Grizzly Bear.
So what does this suggest for the future of Fleet Foxes? For now, Mr. Pecknold still has the desire to be ''a functioning cog'' in something greater than himself. He is looking forward to a band tour, which comes to the United Palace Theater in Upper Manhattan on May 18 and 19. For their next project he'd like his band mates to do some songwriting.
And in any case, being a solo act in the context of a band seems easier than the alternative. ''The guys played a huge part'' in shaping the new record, Mr. Pecknold said. ''It wasn't just about following my whims. I respect them so much as musicians, so when they tell me something is worth keeping, that means a lot to me. I don't necessarily trust my opinions all the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left in foreground, Josh Tillman, Skyler Skjelset and Morgan Henderson. Standing, Casey Wescott, Christian Wargo and Robin Pecknold, all members of the band Fleet Foxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AUTUMN DE WILDE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); SONG WRITING (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (51%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



41 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; SUMMER MOVIES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Oh, Kahuna, What Became Of That Endless Summer?

BYLINE: By TERRENCE RAFFERTY

 BODY:
CALIFORNIA has fallen on grim economic times, but there was a period not long ago when, in popular culture at least, the Golden State seemed like the best idea America had ever had. In the 1950s and '60s, even with the Gold Rush a century past, California still had its sand and its sun and its surf to beckon the hopeful westward, and of course it had the movies too, on screens as big -- and sometimes as loud -- as giant waves. After the gloom and horror of the Second World War and in the midst of the cold war's nagging anxieties, all those bright blue skies and that warm Pacific water and that clean, soft, shimmery sand looked mighty inviting. ''Catch a wave,'' the Beach Boys sang, ''and you're be sittin' on top of the world.'' They sounded as if they meant it. 
By 1963, when ''Catch a Wave'' was recorded, the image of California as a paradise of leisure, especially for the young, had reached a kind of peak. Or perhaps a nadir, because that was the very year in which American International Pictures, an independent studio that specialized in low-budget exploitation fare for drive-ins, kicked off a series of California beach-party movies starring Frankie Avalon, a second-tier teen idol from South Philadelphia, and Annette Funicello, a buxom young songstress who had made her pop-culture bones as the cutest, perkiest cast member of ''The Mickey Mouse Club.'' The first of these films, directed by William Asher and called, imaginatively, ''Beach Party,'' featured a handful of terrible songs, some excruciatingly broad comedy (mostly supplied by veteran television comics like Robert Cummings, Morey Amsterdam and Harvey Lembeck) and a few truly risible surfing sequences, in which Frankie and his pals grin and bob in close-up in front of rear-projected waves.
It was awful, and its sequels -- ''Muscle Beach Party'' (1964), ''Bikini Beach'' (1964), ''Beach Blanket Bingo'' (1965) and ''How to Stuff a Wild Bikini'' (1965), all directed by Mr. Asher -- were, if anything, worse. In the last two, the comic relief is provided by the great Buster Keaton, whose characteristically melancholy expression seems, in this context, fully justified. He's a trouper, but it's impossible to watch his antics with any pleasure unless you're totally unaware of who he is. The filmmakers' assumption, of course, is that their youthful audience will in fact be blissfully ignorant of Keaton's place in film history. And, cynical though that calculation may be, it is also weirdly appropriate, because ignorance of history was, after all, part of the idea of California too.
California was, in those days, where you went to be free of the past: for grown-ups, a place to start again, and for the young, a place to begin life unencumbered by the responsibilities and expectations of previous generations. The air on the beach was fresh and clear and new, the sand was pillowy, the waves broke endlessly, invitingly, and the bathing suits were skimpy. (Among the most powerful attractions of the '60s beach party movies was that they were able to put a lot of flesh up on the screen without seeming, you know, Swedish.) Frankie and Annette and their crew looked happy, day and night, and their freedom from the cares and twitchy neuroses of cold war America appeared to be a direct consequence of where they lived, this sun-drenched Neverland of fun, fun, fun -- at least till Daddy took the T-Bird away.
In the American International beach party cycle, though, Daddy isn't much in evidence, and neither is Mommy. Presumably Frankie, Annette and their cronies have parents -- they don't appear to be from what were then called ''broken homes''-- but by this point the appeal of the California idyll more or less depended on the absence of adult supervision. In the first teen surf movie, Paul Wendkos's ''Gidget'' (1959), parents were very much in the picture, fretting about whether their wave-crazed sons and daughters would paddle farther and farther away from them or come out of the water at last and settle down on the safe shores of college, career and family. After a certain amount of turbulence, and blessedly sparse music, Gidget (Sandra Dee) and her boyfriend, Moondoggie (James Darren), do finally hang up their boards; even their slightly grizzled guru, a self-proclaimed ''surf bum'' called Kahuna (Cliff Robertson), takes a job in the end.
By the time Frankie and Annette invaded the beach, though, the lessons in grown-up responsibility were no longer desirable, or even, perhaps, necessary: their carefree (and extremely chaste) hedonism couldn't strike even the most fretful parent as an especially threatening sort of rebellion. The kids weren't wearing leather, riding motorcycles, carrying switchblades, sniffing glue, getting into rumbles or entertaining peculiar political ideas. Who needed any of that, really, in this West Coast paradise?
But there was a restlessness built into surf culture, as there is in any lifestyle whose core principle is the constant repetition of a particular pleasure. The waves keep breaking, and the surfers keep paddling out to ride them, one after the other, hoping always for a larger swell, a more exhilarating glide to shore, some deeper joy.
Chasing that sort of dream is, in its own way, hard work. In 1966 the surfer-filmmaker Bruce Brown, who had been shooting documentary footage about the sport for years, had a surprising hit with a film called, beautifully, ''The Endless Summer,'' which traced the travels of a couple of Southern California surf fanatics circling the world in search of perfect waves. They trek to out-of-the-way beaches in Africa and Australia before winding up, inevitably, in Hawaii. And although Mr. Brown's tone is light and jocular, and the cinematography is ravishing, there's something a little sad about the picture too, a persistent air of mild disappointment: no waves ever quite measure up to the ones in the surf pilgrims' heads.
In retrospect what's remarkable about ''The Endless Summer'' is the extent to which the peripatetic surfers, Robert August and Mike Hynson, seem to carry California with them wherever they go. They're perennially surprised by how different other places are, how odd the customs and mores of the people of, say, Ghana and Nigeria. And everywhere, Mr. August and Mr. Hynson try to teach the natives how to surf, so they can at least imagine themselves as Californians too. (They're like a two-man Peace Corps of surfing.) Their students are game, but they do look a bit puzzled.
It couldn't last, this sweet, hopeful California idea. By the time John Milius made his sprawling, tortured surf epic ''Big Wednesday'' in 1978, the skies had darkened considerably, and though the waves looked bigger than ever, the actual lives of the young Californians obsessed with seeking them out looked smaller and smaller. Just a few years later the era of the Beach Boys, Frankie and Annette and ''The Endless Summer'' already seemed like a golden age, an occasion of nostalgia -- which is the beginning of the end of living. When Frankie and Annette returned as a middle-aged married couple to their old stomping grounds in ''Back to the Beach'' (1987), all they could do, in their uncomfortable adult incarnations, was parody themselves. (And not amusingly enough: self-consciousness doesn't become them.)
Beach party movies are gone, but surf documentaries still come out from time to time -- one of the best, ''Step Into Liquid'' (2003), was directed by Bruce Brown's son Dana Brown -- and new technology makes the surfers' feats seem even more awe-inspiring. (No rear projection for them.) But their quest appears increasingly quixotic. Although the ocean's waves are cyclic, recurring, endless, and summers, when they're over, always come back again in another year, Golden Ages somehow never do, except in the eternal, pounding breakers of the imagination. California may never be what it once was, or mean what it once meant. But wouldn't it be nice?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Gidget,'' right, the 1959 movie, starred Cliff Robertson (in straw hat), Sandra Dee as the title character and James Darren (on ground) as Moondoggie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOFEST)(MT3)
Above, a scene from Bruce Brown's 1966 film ''The Endless Summer.'' Right, Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello in ''Muscle Beach Party,'' from 1964 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHOTOFEST
 KOBAL COLLECTION)(MT23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (89%); COLD WAR (77%); SURFING (76%); FILM HISTORY (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011



42 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index for April, and construction spending for March (Monday); vehicle sales for April and factory orders for March (Tuesday); the ADP employment report and I.S.M. service index for April (Wednesday); same-store retail sales for April, first-quarter productivity and weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and unemployment for April and consumer credit for March (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include Dish Network and Humana (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, Avon Products, Beazer Homes, CBS, Clorox, Comcast, MasterCard, Molson Coors Brewing, Pfizer and Sirius XM Radio (Tuesday); AOL, Electronic Arts, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, Kellogg, MetLife, the News Corporation and Time Warner (Wednesday); Cablevision, Cigna, CVS Caremark, Fortress Investment, Fortune Brands, General Motors, Kraft Foods, Live Nation Entertainment, Sara Lee, Visa and the Williams Companies (Thursday); and Madison Square Garden (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Two House Energy and Commerce subcommittees will conduct a joint hearing on the role of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Wednesday). A House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will hold a hearing on the threat of data theft (Wednesday). Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will speak at the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank's annual conference on bank structure and competition (Thursday). A House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing on alternative fuels and vehicles (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); SATELLITE RADIO (69%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (67%); ENERGY REGULATION (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (71%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (71%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (70%); KKR & CO LP (70%); NEWS CORP (70%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (69%); WILLIAMS COS INC (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (67%); DISH NETWORK CORP (57%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (57%); PFIZER INC (57%); BEAM INC (56%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); CIGNA CORP (56%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (71%); ADM (NYSE) (71%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (70%); KKR (NYSE) (70%); NWS (NASDAQ) (70%); NWS (ASX) (70%); CVS (NYSE) (69%); WMB (NYSE) (69%); DISH (NASDAQ) (57%); AVP (NYSE) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); BEAM (NYSE) (56%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (56%); CI (NYSE) (56%); EA (NASDAQ) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (71%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (71%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (71%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (71%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (71%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (71%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (71%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (71%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (71%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (71%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (70%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (69%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (69%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (69%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS551114 CORPORATE, SUBSIDIARY & REGIONAL MANAGING OFFICES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS337110 WOOD KITCHEN CABINET & COUNTERTOP MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (56%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



43 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.04 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.09 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.01 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Columbia, Mo., $80.3 million of water and electric systems revenue bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Florida Board of Education, $74.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
THURSDAY
Long Beach, N.Y., School District, $62 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Arlington, Tex., Indpendent School District, $51.7 million of debt securities. Southwest Securities.
California Communities Development Authority, $100 million of revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
California Infrastructure and Economic Development Bank, $57.1 million of revenue bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
California, $72 million of residential housing mortgage revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Georgia Municipal Gas Authority, $75 million of gas revenue bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Hawaii Housing Finance and Development Corporation, $66 million of multi-family housing revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Illinois Finance Authority, $72.3 million of University of Chicago debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
Kansas Board of Public Utilities, $90 million of utility system improvement and refinancing revenue bonds. BMO Capital Markets.
Lousiana Public Facilities Authority, $130 million of hospital revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
New Jersey Trasportation Trust Fund Authority, $600 million of transportation system bonds. JPMorgan Securities.
New York Domitory Authority, $95 million of medical center debt securities. Bank of America.
Oregon Board of Higher Education, $202 million of general obligation bonds. Bank of America.
Pennsylvania Higher Educational Facilities Authority, $157.8 million of Drexel University revenue bonds. Jefferies.
Pima County, Ariz., $75 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); HOSPITALS (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (54%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); PJC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



44 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2245 words

HEADLINE: Another Side of Tilapia, the Perfect Factory Fish

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL; Blake Schmidt contributed reporting from Managua, Nicaragua.

 BODY:
AGUA AZUL, Honduras -- A common Bible story says Jesus fed 5,000 people with five loaves and two fish, which scholars surmise were tilapia.
But at the Aquafinca fish farm here, a modern miracle takes place daily: Tens of thousands of beefy, flapping tilapia are hauled out of teeming cages on Lake Yojoa, converted to fillets in a cold slaughterhouse and rushed onto planes bound for the United States, where some will appear on plates within 12 hours.
Americans ate 475 million pounds of tilapia last year, four times the amount a decade ago, making this once obscure African native the most popular farmed fish in the United States. Although wild fish predominate in most species, a vast majority of the tilapia consumed in the United States is ''harvested'' from pens or cages in Latin America and Asia.
Known in the food business as ''aquatic chicken'' because it breeds easily and tastes bland, tilapia is the perfect factory fish; it happily eats pellets made largely of corn and soy and gains weight rapidly, easily converting a diet that resembles cheap chicken feed into low-cost seafood. 
''Ten years ago no one had heard of it; now everyone wants it because it doesn't have a fishy taste, especially hospitals and schools,'' said Orlando Delgado, general manager of Aquafinca.
Farmed tilapia is promoted as good for your health and for the environment at a time when many marine stocks have been seriously depleted. ''Did you know the American Heart Association recommends eating fish twice a week?'' asks the industry Web site, abouttilapia.com. But tilapia has both nutritional and environmental drawbacks.
Compared with other fish, farmed tilapia contains relatively small amounts of beneficial omega-3 fatty acids, the fish oils that are the main reasons doctors recommend eating fish frequently; salmon has more than 10 times the amount of tilapia. Also, farmed tilapia contains a less healthful mix of fatty acids because the fish are fed corn and soy instead of lake plants and algae, the diet of wild tilapia.
''It may look like fish and taste like fish but does not have the benefits -- it may be detrimental,'' said Dr. Floyd Chilton, a professor of physiology and pharmacology at Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center who specializes in fish lipids.
Environmentalists argue that intensive and unregulated tilapia farming is damaging ecosystems in poor countries with practices generally prohibited in the United States -- like breeding huge numbers of fish in cages in natural lakes, where fish waste pollutes the water. ''We wouldn't allow tilapia to be farmed in the United States the way they are farmed here, so why are we willing to eat them?'' said Dr. Jeffrey McCrary, an American fish biologist who works in Nicaragua. ''We are exporting the environmental damage caused by our appetites.''
Defenders of tilapia aquaculture point out that this young and rapidly growing industry has begun improving standards and toughening regulation. The two-year-old Aquaculture Stewardship Council, the brainchild of the conservation organization WWF and I.D.H., a Dutch sustainable trade program, is rolling out an inspection program for tilapia farms independent of the industry. Those that choose to participate -- and pass -- will receive labels identifying their product as ''responsibly farmed.''
In a nod to its growing popularity, this year tilapia's will be the first of 10 fish certification programs to be initiated. Aquafinca, which began adopting more environmentally friendly cultivation in 2006 to better appeal to large corporate customers like Costco, this year became the first farm to pass an initial inspection.
Proponents say tilapia aquaculture will only grow in importance because it provides food and jobs in a world of declining fish stocks and rising population. ''There are going to be more farmed fish each year,'' said Kevin Fitzsimmons, a biologist at the University of Arizona. ''Think about it: if we tried to get beef from hunting, there would be a lot of hungry people.''
From Africa to the World
Native to lakes in Africa, this versatile warm-water fish was deployed by many governments in poor tropical countries around the world in the second half of the 20th century to control weeds and mosquitoes in lakes and rivers. In a cistern or pond, a few fish yielded dietary protein.
In retrospect, that global dispersal ''maybe was not the best idea,'' said Aaron McNevin, a WWF biologist who is coordinating the development of standards for tilapia farms, because tilapia ''is one of the most invasive species known and very hard to get rid of once they are established.'' Today, wild tilapia has squeezed out native species in lakes throughout the world with its aggressive breeding and feeding.
By the 1990s, businesses saw opportunity in farming this hearty species, which tolerates crowding and does not need expensive meat-based feed. Using selective breeding, scientists created today's industrial strains: big, fleshy fish with tiny heads and tails, and intestines that allow them to absorb food faster. Farmed tilapia reaches its sales weight of about two pounds in roughly nine months of intensive feeding.
''Nature is for maintaining species; what we do is make fillets,'' said Danilo Sosa, a technician at the tilapia breeding pens of Nicanor Fish Farms, outside Managua, Nicaragua, plopping a tilapia used for breeding on a wooden table and scanning the chip in its gut that identifies its breeding line.
Last year, more than 52 million pounds of fresh tilapia were exported to the United States, mostly from Latin America, as well as 422 million more pounds of frozen tilapia, both whole and fillet, nearly all from China, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
The growth has been abetted by the creation and marketing of new products like fleshy ''tilapia loins'' -- even though fish do not possess that anatomical feature.
For United States shoppers picking up tilapia from China or Honduras or Ecuador, there is little guidance. ''It's such a complicated job for consumers to decide what to eat, with aquaculture production expanding so rapidly,'' said Peter Bridson, aquaculture research manager of the Monterey Bay Aquarium, which produces the popular Seafood Watch, an independent consumer guide to buying sustainable fish.
The new sustainability standards being developed for aquaculture will be tailored by species to address their diverse environmental risks. For tilapia, that means fish cages can be placed only in lakes where tilapia already live, and must be designed to prevent escapes. To limit overtaxing of lakes, the new guidelines establish water quality rules for oxygen and phosphorus, a product of fish waste.
Fish farms may not use prophylactic antibiotics. But even the new rules allow for some practices considered unacceptable in the United States, where cage farming in lakes is generally forbidden. In many states, tilapia must be housed in specially designed pens with roofs to prevent birds from carrying the fish elsewhere; their waste is often collected to use as fertilizer rather than released. Also, the new standards allow for baby fish to be fed testosterone even though markets like Whole Foods will not buy hormone-treated seafood.
For the moment, Seafood Watch lists tilapia raised in the United States as a ''best choice,'' tilapia from Latin America as a ''good alternative'' and tilapia from China as ''to be avoided.'' Less than 5 percent of the tilapia consumed in the United States is farmed within its borders, and that is mostly whole fish. Dr. Bridson said these rough ratings were largely based on the presence of effective monitoring in those places and how farms disposed of their waste.
The Pollution Problem
But many biologists worry that the big business of tilapia farming will outweigh caution, leaving dead lakes and extinct species.
Dr. McCrary has spent the past decade studying how a small, short-lived tilapia farm degraded Lake Apoyo in Nicaragua. ''One small cage screwed up the entire lake -- the entire lake!'' he said of the farm, which existed from 1995 to 2000.
Waste from the cages polluted the pristine ecosystem, and some tilapia escaped. An aquatic plant called charra, an important food for fish, disappeared, leaving the lake a wasteland. Today, some species of plants and fish are slowly recovering, but others are probably gone forever, said Dr. McCrary, who works for the Nicaraguan foundation FUNDECI.
That experience explains why Dr. Salvador Montenegro, director of Nicaragua's Center for Aquatic Resource Investigation, has spent a decade fighting to close the much larger Nicanor tilapia farm in a remote corner of Lake Nicaragua. ''This kind of intensive fish farming jeopardizes a lake that is a national treasure, already under stress from pollution,'' he said, once comparing its effect to allowing 3.7 million chickens to defecate in the water. Weaker fish, like the rainbow bass, have been disappearing from Lake Nicaragua as the number of tilapia has increased, said Ben Slow, a local fisherman.
But David Senna, the manager of Nicanor, said the company's cages occupied only a tiny fraction of the lake, in an area with deep water and strong currents sufficient to carry away fish waste; it has taken monthly water samples to prove it. While he acknowledged that early on there were some escapes -- one involving 10,000 tilapia -- he noted that tilapia were introduced to Lake Nicaragua in the 1980s, ''so if they're going to take over, it was already doomed.''
Nutritional Concerns
For doctors, the debate has centered more on tilapia's nutritional benefits, or lack thereof. Like all fish, tilapia is a good source of protein, with few of the unhealthy saturated fats in red meats. But unlike most other fish, tilapia contains relatively little of the fish oils that medical research has shown assist brain development and protect against heart disease, stroke and abnormal heart rhythms: a pair of omega-3 fatty acids.
''When people talk about the need to eat more fish, they are using that as a metaphor for fish oil, DHA and EPA,'' said Edgar R. Miller III, associate professor of medicine and epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. ''So what do we do about the fact that tilapia and catfish, which are farm raised, have very low levels of these compounds?''
While a portion of tilapia has 135 milligrams of omega-3 fatty acids, a portion of salmon has over 2,000 milligrams. And farmed tilapia may have even less than wild tilapia because fish acquire omega-3s by eating aquatic plants and other fish. ''They are what they eat,'' Dr. Bridson said.
In farmed tilapia, raised largely on corn and soy, omega-3 levels depend on how much fish meal or fish oil the farm's breeders mix in. While most fish species need a good helping of these fatty acids to grow, herbivorous tilapia grow decently with little or none. And there are compelling reasons to skimp on fish meal or oil additives: they are costly and create more pollution.
''The content can vary dramatically and the consumer won't know it,'' said Bruce Holub, a professor of nutritional science at the University of Guelph in Ontario, who said that omega-3 levels should appear on every fish label.
He and other experts echo the industry's message that tilapia is nonetheless beneficial to eat as a lean source of protein and one that still contains some omega-3, where protein alternatives like red meat and chicken have none. But others are concerned about research showing that another type of fatty acids, the so-called omega-6 acids, outnumber the beneficial omega-3s in farmed tilapia by a factor of 2 to 1. Some research suggests that ratio increases the risk of heart disease; in salmon and trout the ratio is reversed.
With this in mind, the Mayo Clinic advises patients that some typically farmed fish, like tilapia and catfish, ''don't appear to be as heart-healthy.'' More research will be needed to see whether improving fish feeds enhances tilapia's health benefits, and whether the omega-6 levels in tilapia are significant relative to its already high prevalence in the American diet.
The Choice
Although environmentalists long battled to shut down Nicanor, the Nicaraguan fish farm is failing for another reason: cheap frozen tilapia fillets from China.
Imports of frozen tilapia to the United States rose 30 percent in 2010, as fresh fillet imports dropped 2 percent, reducing demand from smaller producers like Nicanor. Much of the fish that China exports is what producers call ''refreshed,'' which means it is frozen and packed in carbon monoxide to preserve color so it can be thawed and sold in fish displays, where it will appear to have been recently caught. Even in Managua, the capital of Nicaragua, the tilapia on supermarket shelves is from China.
''People wanted to pay $3.99 a pound for this frozen stuff rather than $5.99 for fresh, especially during the recession,'' said Mr. Senna, the Nicanor manager. Chinese fish farms are regarded as poorly regulated, Dr. Bridson said, which is why the world needs clearer standards for sustainable fish farming and consumer labeling. Until then, the biggest producer offering the cheapest product is poised to win.
''If I have 100 tilapia in a pond, I may have happy tilapia because they have room to swim, but I won't be able to sell them since I won't get access to the global market,'' Dr. McCrary said, adding that, for now, ''there's no tilapia equivalent of free-range chicken.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tilapia farms like this one on Lake Yojoa, Honduras, consider the fish ideal because it tolerates overcrowding and does not need expensive meat-based feed.
Americans ate 475 million pounds of tilapia last year, four times more tilapia last year than they did a decade ago, a vast majority of the fish harvested from pens or cages in Latin America and Asia. Environmentalists say ecosystems are being damaged by intensive and unregulated tilapia farming. Doctors say tilapia is relatively low in healthy fish oils. For a video showing how your dinner is cultivated, go to nytimes.com/environment.
 Marco Antonio Torres in Honduras works on cages owned by Regal Springs, a major tilapia producer. Each cage holds 55,000 fish. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Less Heart-Healthy: Tilapia, which is almost all farmed, has far lower levels of the heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids than many other fish, including farmed salmon and trout. (Source: National Fisheries Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINFISH FARMING (91%); AQUACULTURE (91%); FISHES (91%); LAKES (89%); OILS & FATS (87%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); RELIGION (78%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (76%); POULTRY PROCESSING (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (73%); NUTRITION (71%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (71%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); HONDURAS (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); NICARAGUA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



45 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Israel Withholds Palestinian Authority Funds in Response to Deal With Hamas

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Israel said Sunday that it was delaying the transfer of almost $90 million in tax revenue owed to the Palestinian Authority in a move against the emerging reconciliation between Fatah, the party that dominates the authority, and its Islamic rival, Hamas. 
The move came as both sides appealed to international powers to back their positions on the unity deal expected to be signed in Cairo this week, intended to end a four-year schism between the West Bank government led by Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority and Fatah chief, and officials in Gaza, the Palestinian coastal enclave controlled by Hamas.
The finance minister of Israel, Yuval Steinitz, suspended all money transfers and instructed his staff to postpone meetings with Palestinian Authority officials, his office said Sunday, until there were guarantees that none of the money would end up in Hamas coffers.
Mr. Steinitz's advisers said that it was the finance minister's prerogative to suspend the tax transfer, but the decision also appeared to have the backing of the Israeli leadership. Officials said that Mr. Steinitz attended discussions on Thursday between the prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and his top ministers about the implications of Palestinian reconciliation.
Hamas is sworn to Israel's destruction. Israel, like the United States and the European Union, classifies the group as a terrorist organization and refuses any dealings with it.
''The burden of proof is on the Palestinians,'' Mr. Steinitz told Israel Radio on Sunday, ''that the money we pass on, even money that is theirs, will not go to a terror organization, to terror activists, to the purchase of rockets that will later fall on Sderot, Ashkelon or Ashdod.''
Israel collects the equivalent of more than $1 billion annually in customs and other taxes on behalf of the Palestinian Authority and transfers the revenue to the Palestinian side under terms that were part of the Oslo accords. The tax transfers, which make up a significant portion of the authority budget, have been suspended for lengthy periods in the past.
Palestinian officials denounced Israel for attacking the unity deal before it had been signed and before its details were known.
''These Israeli measures will not deter us from every possible effort to expedite the completion of the file of ending the division and restoring national unity, regardless of such actions, steps or threats,'' Salam Fayyad, the Palestinian Authority prime minister, said Sunday.
Mr. Fayyad told the official Palestinian news agency Wafa that Palestinian leaders were in contact with international forces and bodies to try to prevent the Israeli delay in the tax transfers.
Israeli leaders were also focusing their efforts on persuading the world powers to shun any Palestinian unity government that includes Hamas. Although the Palestinians say they intend to set up an interim unity government made up of independent technocrats, Israeli officials have said they would not accept that distinction, and that it is the politicians who set the government policy who count.
Mr. Netanyahu said Sunday that the unity deal ''must concern not only every Israeli, but all those in the world who aspire to see peace between us and our Palestinian neighbors. Peace is possible only with those who want to live in peace alongside us and not with those who want to destroy us.'' He added that he would deliver this message to European leaders during his visits to London and Paris this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); AL FATAH (90%); HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BURDENS OF PROOF (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); RELIGION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (72%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (96%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



46 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Homeless, But Finding Sanctuary At School

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: oneducation@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. -- The bus ride from the homeless shelter to Fern Creek Elementary School was, as usual, raucous. A hundred times, Doretha Brown, the bus driver, had to yell for everyone to sit down. ''This noise is what holds us up every morning and evening!'' Ms. Brown shouted, although the Collins girls -- Brianna, 8; Tamara, 7; and Sydney, 6 -- could barely hear her above the din.
A first grader and a second grader got into a fight on the 15-minute ride, and someone else threw up. Brianna, Tamara and Sydney paid no mind. As their father, James Collins, says, ''To get by at a shelter, you have to focus yourself.''
This is the sisters' second stay at a shelter, so they are becoming accustomed to being homeless. Roxanne Schreffler, a kindergarten teacher, was struck by Sydney's arrival at Fern Creek in February. ''She walked into kindergarten in the middle of the day and sat right down,'' Ms. Schreffler said. ''She'd immediately adapted to her new situation. There was no time integrating her into the class; she was ready to go.'' 
Twenty percent of Fern Creek's students are homeless, and school is the best part of the day for many of them. All eight members of the Collins family -- Brianna is the oldest of six children, including three who are too young for school -- live in a 13-foot-by-15-foot windowless room and share three bunk beds. It is a great relief getting out in the morning and off to school.
''They love Fern Creek,'' said their father, who lost his job hanging drywall after the economy collapsed. ''I can't say nothing bad about Fern Creek.''
The children's mother, Felica Blue, who lost her job working the 11 p.m.-to-4 a.m. shift cleaning the arena after the Orlando Magic's basketball games, said: ''They love Fern Creek. Brianna's always talking about kids from her class.''
Ms. Schreffler is struck by how happy Sydney is despite her circumstances. ''She's so grateful. It seems like everything is, 'Thank you, Ms. Schreffler,' '' she said.
The girls were particularly excited on the day of the school's annual literacy night and book fair. Every month, Patrick Galatowitsch, the principal, dedicates a ''night'' for learning -- math, science, the arts, music -- but this was the first for Ms. Blue and her girls. Mr. Galatowitsch sends a bus to the shelter to pick up the families, and the Coalition for the Homeless of Central Florida, which runs the shelter, keeps their dinners warm until they get back.
Mr. Collins gave the three girls all his spare change to spend at the book fair. Tamara kept her 53 cents in a sealed envelope. When someone told her that was not enough for a book, Tamara said, ''It's enough for a bookmark.''
On Thursday, the day that the Dow hit its highest level in nearly three years, 256 of the 751 at the coalition's shelter were children. There are 2,953 homeless students attending Orange County Public Schools, up from 1,463 in 2008.
Nationally, the number of homeless students at public schools reached an all-time high after the recession hit. In the 2008-9 school year, there were 954,914 homeless students, compared with 679,724 in 2006-7, according to the latest data from the United States Department of Education.
Homeless children fare significantly worse in school than other poor children. In Virginia, 21.2 percent of students who are homeless at some point during their high school years drop out, compared with 14.8 percent of all poor children, the state's Department of Education says. In Colorado, the high school graduation rate is 72 percent for all students, 59 percent for poor students and 48 percent for homeless students, according to data from the state's education Web site.
At Fern Creek, where 85 percent of the students qualify for subsidized lunches, about one-third of the 59 homeless students, including Brianna, have been held back a grade.
Even so, the school has had an A rating on its state report card in five of the last six years, with 77 percent of the students scoring proficient in reading and 85 percent doing so in math.
Mr. Galatowitsch says there are several reasons for the school's success:
Class size. Florida voters have twice approved mandatory class-size limits, despite strong opposition from one of the most prominent members of the so-called school-reform movement, former Gov. Jeb Bush. The three Collins girls' classes have 18 students each.
Talented, experienced teachers. Brianna's teacher, Rebecca Farmer, is a 14-year veteran. Shannon Preshong, who teaches Tamara, has 19 years of experience, and Ms. Schreffler has spent 30 years in the classroom.
Firm yet caring discipline. Even before students bound off that rollicking school bus, Shanita Highland, the dean of students, bounds on. There is immediate silence. ''You're supposed to have your shirt tucked in,'' whispered Justin Hernandez, a fifth grader who quickly stuffed his into his pants. ''No one likes getting on Mrs. Highland's bad side -- she's nice, but she's strict.''
The second person they meet, standing in front of the school, is Ron Jones, a tall, athletic gym teacher, who holds three fingers in the air, the Fern Creek signal for everyone to button it. ''We've told them what being quiet looks like and sounds like,'' Mr. Jones says.
Mr. Galatowitsch does not believe in suspending children. ''It makes no sense to remove a child who needs school the most,'' he said. This year, no Fern Creek student has been suspended, although 18 have been sent to the quiet room to cool off.
On literacy night, the school bus arrived at the shelter at 5:20. Only two mothers and six children got on. All together, about 150 parents and children attended. There was a storyteller from the Orange County Library System, a book giveaway and the book fair. Mr. Galatowitsch used a $250 donation to buy books for the homeless students. The Collinses returned to the shelter with four each, which pleased Tamara, who did not need to spend her 53 cents.
At the end of the evening, a raffle was held in the cafeteria. A number of prizes were awarded, but the most coveted by far were the four bicycles that had been donated by a local church.
When it came down to the last bike, Mr. Galatowitsch, who has been a principal 16 years and makes $91,674 a year, called out ticket No. 9083. Brianna leapt into the air: she had won a black bike and matching helmet. ''Plus I get this,'' she said, holding up a lock.
Tamara stood quietly to the side. ''I didn't get a bicycle,'' she said to her mother.
When it was time to leave, a grown-up carried the new bicycle onto the school bus. For once in a very hard life, heading home to the shelter, Brianna Collins felt like a movie star.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the Collins sisters -- left to right, Brianna, 8
Tamara, 7
 and Sydney, 6 -- arriving at Fern Creek Elementary School on Thursday. Left, Tamara working on her reading with Deborah Smith. About 20 percent of the students at Fern Creek, including the Collinses, live in homeless shelters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FAMILY (69%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (68%); BASKETBALL (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



47 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: What Happens in Brooklyn When You Try to Cut Medicare

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

 BODY:
Only one Republican represents New York City in Congress, and even in his 13th Congressional District, which includes Staten Island and a small southwest corner of Brooklyn, it's a high-wire act. You can talk all you want about the need to cut federal spending and taxes when you're in the Staten Island part of the district, but try that after crossing the Verrazano Bridge, and you're going to need some protection.
That Republican is Michael Grimm, one of the freshmen elected in last November's wave, and he learned that lesson rather painfully on Wednesday night in a junior high school auditorium in the Dyker Heights section of the borough. It was his first town hall meeting in Brooklyn, and it came less than two weeks after he voted for the ravaging new House Republican budget. That plan would essentially privatize Medicare, slash Medicaid and many other federal programs that are very popular in New York, and further cut taxes for the rich. 
The crowd lay in wait for him with sharpened reports from the Congressional Budget Office, incendiary printouts from liberal blogs, and even a few lethal rolled-up newspapers with articles about the House plan. Mr. Grimm was left standing, but only after 90 minutes of high-decibel debate, during which a school security guard had to threaten to remove several citizens vibrating with anger about Medicare.
It began when he asked the crowd of about 100 people whether they believed the nation faced a debt crisis. A woman near the front row responded that the nation faced a revenue crisis. Someone else shouted out that taxes were too low, and a third person shouted that it was all President George W. Bush's fault for cutting taxes on the rich. There was a big round of applause, and with that the evening became a battle of statistics and worldviews, in perhaps the only section of the city divided enough to match the national debate.
''Adjust Medicare, don't kill it!'' shouted one woman. ''The program just isn't sustainable,'' Mr. Grimm said, trying to control his meeting. ''That's a flat-out lie,'' said a man in a Communications Workers of America shirt.
Around the country, Republican lawmakers on recess have encountered bitter opposition as they meet with constituents infuriated at their Medicare vote. Republicans have complained that the town meetings have been targeted by Democratic activist groups like MoveOn. It's true, but the criticism is no less legitimate than when members of the Tea Party swarmed town halls in 2009 at the height of the health care debate.
Many of Mr. Grimm's critics at the Brooklyn meeting were wearing union shirts, or reading from printouts. One woman who almost got thrown out for shouting is a regular contributor to the Daily Kos Web site. A few said in interviews that they lived in more affluent sections of the borough. But just as many appeared to be Mr. Grimm's constituents, and said they had grave concerns about his vote to cut the safety net while benefiting the rich.
''If this whole budget is about trying to get out of debt,'' asked one woman, ''then why are we still providing tax cuts to the people who need it less?''
Mr. Grimm responded in a depressingly familiar way: ''What this debate has turned into is class warfare -- let's be honest about it,'' he said. Lower taxes across the board would increase government revenue, he maintained, in the face of loud catcalls from those who pointed out that that economic theory has long since been discredited.
According to one show of hands, nearly half the audience voted for Mr. Grimm, and while they occasionally applauded, they were far quieter than the critics. None stood up to support his vote on Medicare. At his Staten Island meeting the next night, someone even rose to accuse him of trying to ''kill Grandma.'' Mr. Grimm, who won election by only three percentage points in 2010 (and who lost the Brooklyn section) may find his vote makes the task quite a bit harder in 2012.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); LIBERAL MEDIA (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); MEDICAID (53%); CAMPUS SECURITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL GRIMM (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



48 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: With Silver Soaring, Attics Give Up Small Fortunes

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD. 
David Carr, whose Media Equation column normally appears on this page, is off.

 BODY:
Finally, that great-aunt's tarnished tea service can be put to use -- no polishing needed.
As investors send prices soaring for not only gold, but now also silver, consumers have been unearthing ancient stashes of silverware, teapots and jewelry from long-discarded beaus, and trading them in at pawn shops or selling them on eBay for cash. More and more cash, in fact, as weeks go by.
''We're seeing an increase of people coming in from all walks of life because they hear the news -- gold prices are at record highs, silver prices are at record highs, so they're basically grabbing what they have in their home and coming in to pawn, or sell, the items,'' said Yigal Adato, an owner of CashCo Pawn in San Diego. 
The sharp increase in prices -- on Friday, gold hit a new high, not adjusted for inflation, while silver in April had the largest monthly jump in 28 years -- has had an effect across the spectrum of retailers dealing with precious metals. Plain old silver enjoys new cachet among jewelers moving away from gold. And jewelry designers are opting for cheaper alternatives than metals -- like emeralds, in one case.
Even the business of marriage enters in. Bands of gold are getting closer in price to the diamonds that sit on them. And Indian weddings, with traditional displays of celebratory gold, may be less gilded this summer.
Gold has been surging for years, and on Friday, it almost hit $1,570 for a troy ounce (a nominal high, not adjusted for inflation). Silver, measured by futures for July delivery, is almost as high as it has been since 1980, at more than $48 an ounce, though that comparison, too, is not adjusted for inflation. So far this year, the price of silver has risen more than 50 percent.
Gold has been slower to increase, with contracts for future delivery rising about 9 percent this year. When gold started its most recent run after the banking crisis in fall 2008, it posted a 25 percent gain for all of 2009.
Pawn shops are benefiting. Three publicly traded pawn shop companies, Cash America, EZCorp and FirstCash Financial, recently reported sharp increases in net income compared with a year earlier. For Cash America, the rise was 14 percent; with 34 percent for EZCorp; and 87 percent for FirstCash. Armloads of metal merchandise brought in by customers helped to drive those results: at FirstCash, domestic revenue from wholesale scrap jewelry rose 45 percent.
Worried about inflation, and wanting the stability of precious metals, investors are buying them in coins, and via vehicles like the iShares Silver Trust, an exchange-traded fund backed by silver.
''Investors who feel they may have missed the boat with gold have jumped into silver because it has a better price point,'' said Suki Cooper, a precious-metals analyst for Barclays Capital.
Yet even if investors think $48 an ounce is reasonable, jewelers say the price has turned once-plebian silver into something extravagant.
''I felt you'd never see the day when silver would start to jack up like this,'' said Alexis Bittar, who designs jewelry sold at stores like Saks Fifth Avenue and Nordstrom. ''It's always been considered not like a base metal, but fairly close to it.''
He added, ''But next to gold, it's the next precious metal in line, and it makes sterling seem more luxurious.''
Mr. Bittar, whose jewelry typically sells for a few hundred dollars, said he was making shifts to keep prices flat. Brass, for instance, substitutes as a base for silver on items that will be coated with gold, and he is reducing the amount of metal used in some designs.
J. C. Penney, which is also trying to keep prices flat on most items, began using alternative metals when gold prices started rising, and now sells items made with sterling silver, cobalt and Platinaire, a mix of silver and platinum, said Rebecca Winter, a Penney spokeswoman.
Also, she said, the retailer realized that customers did not mind paying higher prices for trendy pieces. In February, Penney introduced Alexandra Gemstones, a line meant to capitalize on the popularity of colorful accessories while avoiding silver and gold.
Michael Bisceglia, the president of the jewelry company Stauer, is also emphasizing gemstones -- even rubies, he said, can be had at low prices.
''Emeralds, rubies, sapphires, tanzanite, pearls -- those prices haven't gone up that much, so I'm adding more gemstones to jewelry now, and less silver,'' he said.
As for the Indian weddings, some changes are under consideration. Indian weddings typically involve a lot of gold jewelry, said Anu Duggal, a founder and the executive vice president for new business development for Exclusively.In, a site that sells Indian fashion and jewelry and just introduced a weddings section.
''It is very common for not only the bride and groom, but also the family members to purchase new outfits and jewelry for these events,'' Ms. Duggal said in an e-mail. She added, ''Gold itself is the most common gift given during weddings, and it is customary for the bride to wear pure gold as part of the formal wedding ceremony.''
But as the cost of gold has shot up, brides are altering the tradition, shifting to semi-precious and gold-plated jewelry, Ms. Duggal said. ''This is becoming more and more acceptable,'' she said.
At CashCo Pawn, the metals rush has brought in lots of silver inventory, like coins, teapots and flatware. ''People receive Tiffany silver items,'' Mr. Adato said, ''and the girlfriend brings it in to sell -- they say: 'You know what? I broke up with this guy. I don't want to see this anymore.' ''
In addition, people are still bringing in scrap gold, he added: ''gold teeth, a lot of dental work. We get grills once in a while, gold grills.''
Joe Ellis, the owner of Cherokee Coins in Alpharetta, Ga., said he had never seen higher demand for gold and silver bars. Customers want coins like the United States silver eagle, generic silver bars, circulated silver dollars, and dimes and quarters from before 1965, when they were made with 90 percent silver.
Cherokee accepts pawned items, but, Mr. Ellis said, that business had slowed. During the recession, he accepted a steady stream of items like broken bracelet chains and silverware, but now, he said, his customers seemed to have little left in their attics and basements.
''Quite frankly, I think people just have so much they can sell,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Better Than Gold: The price of silver has risen much faster than the price of gold since the beginning of last year. (Source: Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); JEWELRY (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FINE JEWELRY (77%); SILVER MARKETS (77%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



49 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Ferguson to Direct Film About WikiLeaks Founder

BYLINE: Compiled by RACHEL LEE HARRIS

 BODY:
Charles Fergusonhas taken on his first nondocumentary project with HBO Films, directing a movie about Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Mr. Ferguson won an Oscar this year for his documentary ''Inside Job,'' about the origins of the 2008 financial crisis, and received a nomination for his 2007 film ''No End In Sight,'' about the American occupation in Iraq. Mr. Assange has been embroiled in controversy since November, when WikiLeaks made public confidential diplomatic cables from the State Department. Shortly afterward, he was arrested in Britain on charges of sexual abuse in Sweden; he has appealed a decision allowing his extradition to Sweden. He is also under investigation by the United States Justice Department. Other films about Mr. Assange, below, and WikiLeaks are in the works, The Los Angeles Times reported. DreamWorks has optioned several memoirs about Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks; Universal has a documentary by Alex Gibney(''Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room'') in production; and Annapurna Productions has said it is financing a film to be produced, and possibly written by, Mark Boal, whose ''Hurt Locker'' won him two Oscars in 2009, for original screenplay and best film. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); EXTRADITION (69%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); ARRESTS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: JULIAN ASSANGE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SWEDEN (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



50 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
JOHN PAUL II TAKES
A STEP CLOSER TO SAINTHOOD
Lauding John Paul II as a giant of 20th-century history as well as a hero of the church, Pope Benedict XVI moved his towering predecessor one step closer to sainthood in a Mass that drew more than a million people to Rome. Benedict beatified John Paul II, declaring him ''blessed,'' meaning that he is able to be publicly venerated. PAGE A9
BRITONS TO VOTE ON VOTING 
Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain and his coalition government face their first nationwide elections on Thursday, and a range of recent opinion polls showed referendum voters poised to inflict a heavy defeat on a proposal that would scrap the current electoral system. PAGE A9
YEMEN TALKS FALTER
An agreement to end Yemen's political crisis appeared to be crumbling, as talks bogged down yet again between the country's mutually suspicious political factions . A signing ceremony for the deal was postponed indefinitely. PAGE A10
PROTESTS IN MOROCCO
Thousands of people, including trade union members, marched in Morocco's cities, demanding a faster transition toward democracy and decrying terrorism, a few days after a bomb in a crowded tourist cafe killed 16 people, nearly all of them foreigners, and wounded almost two dozen more. PAGE A11
TOURIST VALUE OF SHARKS
Sharks can be worth far more when they are swimming around a reef than when they are in a bowl of soup -- as much as nearly $2 million each, in fact, according to the results of a new study. PAGE A12
National
MEDICARE PROPOSAL IS UNLIKE FEDERAL EMPLOYEE PLAN
House Republicans say their budget proposal would make Medicare work just like the health insurance that covers federal employees, including members of Congress. But a close examination shows that the two plans are very different, and the differences help explain why the Republican plan has set off a political uproar. PAGE A18
SCHOOL AS SANCTUARY
Twenty percent of the students at Fern Creek Elementary School in Orlando are homeless, and school is the best part of the day for many of them. Even so, the school has had an A rating on its state report card in five of the last six years, with 77 percent of the students scoring proficient in reading and 85 percent doing so in math. Michael Winerip, On Education. PAGE A14
UTAH'S SHORT WORKWEEK
In 2008, before the recession's worst ravages hit, managers in Utah launched an experiment: If state workers crammed 40 hours of work into four days, and nonemergency services were closed on Fridays, might the same amount of work get done for less money and a reduced impact on the environment? Other states and cities subsequently imposed reduced work schedules on employees. But at least a half-dozen states have begun looking at the Utah model as a possible permanent solution, and they are seeking advice. PAGE A18
DEMOCRATS SEE TOUGH 2012
In a springtime full of political disappointment, Democratic strategists have begun concluding that Mr. Obama faces a tougher-than-anticipated re-election fight. PAGE A18
New York
BILL WOULD EASE
RENT DEREGULATION
A bill pending in the State Senate would offer what supporters call a ''legislative solution'' to a 2009 ruling by the New York Court of Appeals that said the owners of the Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village complexes in Manhattan had improperly deregulated thousands of apartments while taking special tax benefits from the city. The measure would ultimatelymake it easier to deregulate thousands of vacant apartments and increase rents by hundreds of dollars or more. PAGE A22
Business
MANY JAPANESE FACTORIES
HAVE ALREADY RECOVERED
Only seven weeks after the huge earthquake in northeastern Japan collapsed the ceiling, many of the industrial plants in the country are nearly back to full production. The pattern suggests that whatever the long-term effect of the natural and nuclear disasters on the country, manufacturing -- the most important cog in Japan's export-oriented economy -- might largely rebound within a few months. PAGE b1
Sports
CUTTING MEN'S PROGRAMS
TO SATISFY TITLE IX IN FUTURE
Delaware is one of dozens of universities that have eliminated low-profile men's teams in an effort, the universities say, to comply with Title IX, the federal law that bans sex discrimination in education. But in cutting the men's varsity track team, Delaware took the practice a step further, officials say they are ending the track program out of concern that they could not remain compliant in the future. PAGE D1
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A25
Ross Douthat PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); RELIGION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); WORK WEEK (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (66%); TERRORISM (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (61%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (91%); DAVID CAMERON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (90%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); YEMEN (92%); MOROCCO (92%); ITALY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



51 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Springtime for Bankers

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last year the G.O.P. pulled off two spectacular examples of bait-and-switch campaigning. Medicare, where the same people who screamed about death panels are now trying to dismantle the whole program, was the most obvious. But the same thing happened with regard to financial reform.
As you may recall, Republicans ran hard against bank bailouts. Among other things, they managed to convince a plurality of voters that the deeply unpopular bailout legislation proposed and passed by the Bush administration was enacted on President Obama's watch. 
And now they're doing everything they can to ensure that there will be even bigger bailouts in years to come.
What does it take to limit future bailouts? Declaring that we'll never do it again is no answer: when financial turmoil strikes, standing aside while banks fall like dominoes isn't an option. After all, that's what policy makers did in 1931, and the resulting banking crisis turned a mere recession into the Great Depression.
And let's not forget that markets went into free fall when the Bush administration let Lehman Brothers go into liquidation. Only quick action -- including passage of the much-hated bailout -- prevented a full replay of 1931.
So what's the solution? The answer is regulation that limits the frequency and size of financial crises, combined with rules that let the government strike a good deal when bailouts become necessary.
Remember, from the 1930s until the 1980s the United States managed to avoid large bailouts of financial institutions. The modern era of bailouts only began in the Reagan years, when politicians started dismantling 1930s-vintage regulation.
Moreover, regulation wasn't updated as the financial system evolved. The institutions that were rescued in 2008-9 weren't old-fashioned banks; they were complex financial empires, many of whose activities were effectively unregulated -- and it was these unregulated activities that brought the U.S. economy to its knees.
Worse yet, officials lacked clear authority to seize these failing empires the way the F.D.I.C. can seize a conventional bank when it goes bust. That's one reason the bailout looked so much like a giveaway: officials felt they lacked the legal tools to save the financial system without letting the people who created the crisis off the hook.
Last year Congressional Democrats enacted a financial reform bill that sought to close these gaps. The bill extended regulation in a number of ways: consumer protection, higher capital standards for major institutions, greater transparency for complex financial instruments. And it created new powers -- ''resolution authority'' -- to help officials drive a harder bargain in future crises.
There are many criticisms one can make of this legislation, which is arguably much too weak. And the Obama administration has frustrated many people with its too-lenient attitude toward Wall Street -- exemplified by last week's decision to exempt foreign-exchange swaps, a major source of dislocation in 2008, from regulation.
But Republicans are trying to undermine the whole thing.
Back in February G.O.P. legislators admitted frankly that they were trying to cripple financial reform by cutting off funding. And the recent House budget proposal, which calls for privatizing and voucherizing Medicare, also calls for eliminating resolution authority, in effect setting things up so that the bankers will get as good a deal in the next crisis as they got in 2008.
Of course, that's not how Republicans put it. They claim that their goal is to ''end the cycle of future bailouts,'' under the general rubric of ''ending corporate welfare.''
But as we've already seen, future bailouts will happen whatever today's politicians say -- and they'll be bigger, more frequent and more expensive without effective regulation.
To see what's really going on, follow the money. Wall Street used to favor Democrats, perhaps because financiers tend to be liberal on social issues. But greed trumps gay rights, and financial industry contributions swung sharply toward the Republicans in the 2010 elections. Apparently Wall Street, unlike the voters, had no trouble divining the party's real intentions.
And one more thing: by standing in the way of regulations that would limit future financial crises, Republicans are giving further evidence that they don't really care about budget deficits.
For our current deficit is overwhelmingly the result of the 2008 financial crisis, which devastated revenue and increased the cost of programs like unemployment insurance. And while we managed to avoid large direct bailout costs (a fact not appreciated in public debate), we might not be lucky next time.
More and bigger crises; more and bigger bailouts; more and bigger deficits. If you like that prospect, you should love what the G.O.P. is doing to financial reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); RECESSION (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (52%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



52 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Struggle Looms on Controlling Deficit Spending

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With Congress returning this week to confront an administration demand to raise the federal debt limit, Democrats and Republicans are in general agreement that the step should be accompanied by new controls on deficit spending but face a wrenching struggle over what those controls should be.
Some Democrats are exploring the possibility of budget ''triggers,'' spending cuts that would kick in automatically if the government failed to reach agreed-upon deficit reduction targets over the long run. Republicans are demanding immediate spending reductions and stricter enforcement mechanisms, like a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.
Some bipartisan talks are under way in the Senate, and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is to convene a negotiating session between White House officials and Congressional leaders on Thursday.
The Treasury Department will reach its legal borrowing limit of $14.3 trillion in the next few weeks. It has said it can employ various cash-management measures for an additional two months to allow the government to keep paying its bills. But after that the United States would face the prospect of being unable to finance its operations or repay all its borrowings. 
That would technically put the United States in default -- a development with the potential to agitate the financial markets and ripple through the economy in the form of higher interest rates. With that in mind, the Treasury Department is scheduled to announce its borrowing plans for the second half of 2011 on Monday, the day Congress convenes.
Republicans see the vote over raising the debt limit as leverage for immediate and concrete progress in their efforts to cut spending and reduce the size and reach of the government. President Obama has called for a no-strings-attached increase in the debt limit but has also proposed a budget plan that would include broad spending reductions if the federal debt as a percentage of the total economy is still rising in 2014.
Reflecting the political potency of the issue, some Democrats in Congress are now signaling that they would accept linking some kind of automatic trigger to a debt-limit increase.
''This is a seminal moment in our country's history,'' said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and co-author of a spending cap proposal that is drawing increasing interest from members of both parties in the House and the Senate. ''I think we are building up to a place over the next couple of months where we are going to do something.''
Even top Democrats, who oppose Mr. Corker's plan and have previously pushed for an increase in the debt ceiling free of any Congressional restraints, say lawmakers must show the public that they are moving to put the government on a more stable financial footing.
''We're going to have to come up with something that makes sense,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, told reporters after he met with White House officials last week. ''My personal conviction is that we have to be able to prove that we're willing to do something about the debt, that we're willing to do something with the deficits.''
House Republicans, saying they were leery of budget limits that could easily be circumvented, quickly came out against Mr. Reid's suggestion that deficit caps could be a legislative solution. But many Democrats are equally opposed to automatic spending restraints that they say could apply a meat-ax approach to the budget or deny the government sufficient financial flexibility in periods of conflict or economic hardship.
In coming weeks, the debt-limit fight is likely to become entangled in the consideration of broader plans to address the government's chronic budget deficits and the mounting debt.
A ''Gang of Six'' in the Senate, made up of three Democrats and three Republicans, is developing what is expected to be a far-reaching plan that mixes spending restraint with new revenues and that its members hope could become the basis for a deal that addresses the growing costs of the entitlement programs and the other underlying drivers of the nation's fiscal problems.
One Democratic member, Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, who leads the Budget Committee, said Sunday that the group was making ''enormous progress.''
''I hope that we are able to announce an agreement soon,'' he said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''If we don't, we're simply not going to be relevant, because this debate marches on.''
In another effort to begin sorting out the possibilities, the Senate Finance Committee has scheduled a hearing for Wednesday to explore which budget thresholds would force spending or revenue changes to kick in automatically if the deficit reached a certain level.
One of the scheduled witnesses is former Senator Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican and an author of the 1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Law that was a notable effort to force spending cuts that Congress seemed politically unwilling to make on its own.
One proposal getting attention is a plan from Mr. Corker and Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, to cap federal spending within a decade at about 20.6 percent of the nation's economic output.
Ms. McCaskill, who faces a difficult re-election race next year, said the multiple proposals suggested to her that Congress and the administration were finally getting serious about attacking the deficit. She said she would consider competing initiatives.
''This is a situation where the more, the merrier,'' Ms. McCaskill said in an interview.
The willingness of Congressional Democrats to examine such options reflects a recognition that lawmakers cannot credibly forge ahead with a vote on the debt limit without some accompanying antideficit steps to make the increase palatable to voters.
The experience in the 1980s with the Gramm-Rudman law, and later attempts to impose automatic budget controls through pay-as-you-go rules, also showed that Congress and the White House can and will find ways around them even if the proposals survive legal challenges.
Faced with the prospect of spending cuts or tax increases required under the Gramm-Rudman law, lawmakers sometimes looked to more optimistic economic projections to avoid the reductions or skirted the cuts with budget gimmicks. And Congress has often waived its pay-as-you-go rules when they got in the way of costly legislation like the 2009 stimulus spending.
Mr. Corker said that failure to come to an agreement this time would represent a ''huge calamity'' for the nation. While he said he thought spending caps were the most expedient solution, he said he was simply looking for an approach that could lead to a debt-limit increase and deficit controls.
''I am concerned about our country,'' he said, ''and I am cheering for anyone who is trying to solve this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, is co-author of a proposal to cap spending at a percentage of economic output. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); HISTORY (50%)

PERSON: BOB CORKER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



53 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Proposal for Medicare Is Unlike Federal Employee Plan

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House Republicans say their budget proposal would make Medicare work just like the health insurance that covers federal employees, including members of Congress. But a close examination shows the two plans are very different, and the differences help explain why the Republican plan has set off a political uproar.
Under the federal employees' health plan, which covers eight million people, the government pays a fixed share of premiums. So the federal contribution generally keeps pace with rising premiums, which in turn reflect rising health costs. 
No such guarantee exists under the Republicans' plan to transform Medicare, approved by the House on April 15 as part of a budget blueprint to cut federal spending and deficits.
Medicare and the budget will be high on the agenda when Congress reconvenes Monday after a two-week recess in which Republicans were barraged with complaints from constituents alarmed about the possible erosion of Medicare benefits.
Under the House Republican proposal, starting in 2022 new Medicare beneficiaries would receive coverage through private insurance plans, and Medicare would subsidize the cost.
The federal payment for a typical 65-year-old would be set at $8,000 a year in 2022, about the same as what Medicare is expected to spend under current law.
In later years, the federal payment would be increased to reflect the age of a beneficiary and general inflation, measured by the Consumer Price Index. But health costs and insurance premiums have, for years, been rising faster than consumer prices in general.
So, the Congressional Budget Office says, under the Republican plan, Medicare would pay a shrinking share of beneficiaries' total health costs, and seniors would pay a growing share. For a typical 65-year-old, that share would be 68 percent in 2030, more than twice what it would be under current law, the budget office said.
Today, Medicare is an open-ended entitlement. It does not have a fixed budget, though Congress has defined the benefits and prescribed payment rates for doctors and hospitals.
House Republicans have repeatedly likened their proposal to the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, in which most lawmakers are enrolled.
''We want to prevent Medicare from going bankrupt,'' said Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee and the lead advocate for the budget proposal. ''We want a system that's sustainable. We want a system that's solvent and that people can rely upon: guaranteed coverage options just like we have in Congress. That's what we are proposing.''
Beginning in 2022, Mr. Ryan said, ''new Medicare beneficiaries would be enrolled in the same kind of health care program that members of Congress enjoy.''
Under their proposal, House Republicans say, Medicare would subsidize private health plans offered to beneficiaries, just as the federal government helps pay premiums for private health plans offered to its employees.
But Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said the similarities ended there.
''We keep hearing that Republicans are offering seniors exactly what members of Congress get,'' Mr. Van Hollen said. ''It simply is not true.''
Under the federal employee program, the government's share of premiums is set at 72 percent of the average premium for all plans, but it cannot exceed 75 percent of the premium for any particular plan.
The health care handbook for federal employees explains, ''This formula is known as the 'fair share' formula because it will maintain a consistent level of government contributions, as a percentage of total program costs, regardless of which health plan enrollees elect.''
In practice, the government pays three-fourths of the premium for relatively inexpensive health plans and about two-thirds of the premium for those that cost more than the average.
The maximum annual government contribution this year is $10,503 for family coverage.
An example shows how the formula works. For family coverage under the most popular plan -- the standard option offered by Blue Cross and Blue Shield -- the total annual premium is $15,682 this year. The government pays $10,503 (67 percent) and the federal worker pays the rest, $5,179.
For family coverage under the cheaper Blue Cross basic option, the total premium is $12,744; the government pays $9,558 (75 percent) and the employee pays $3,186.
Even so, Conor Sweeney, a spokesman for Mr. Ryan, insisted that the comparison to the federal employees' plan was valid. ''The model, the structure, the approach is inarguably similar: the government pays a share of the individual's premiums'' in both the employee program and the House Republicans' Medicare proposal.
If Democrats showed any interest in this approach, lawmakers could still negotiate the amount of the federal payment to private health plans, and how to adjust it from year to year, Mr. Sweeney said. Earlier versions of Mr. Ryan's Medicare proposal, he added, would have allowed the federal contribution to grow at a somewhat higher rate than assumed in the House budget blueprint.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Kenosha, Wis., on Tuesday sought the attention of Representative Paul D. Ryan over the House budget proposal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY PHELPS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); BUDGETS (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROVALS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); HEALTH CARE (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



54 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: The Economy Slows: Economists say not to worry about bad numbers, but we should

 BODY:
It has long been clear that economists do not see the world the way people experience it. That disconnect is especially pronounced now.
The economy lost steam in the first quarter. Growth in personal consumption -- the single largest component of the economy -- slowed markedly. Business-related construction cratered and residential construction fell. Exports stumbled. The only unambiguous plus was continued business investment in equipment and software, which is necessary but not sufficient for overall growth. 
In all, economic growth slowed from an annual rate of 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 1.8 percent in the first quarter of 2011.
Not to worry. Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, called the slowdown ''transitory,'' a judgment echoed by many economists who believe that the poor performance can be chalked up to bad weather, political unrest and other presumably temporary setbacks.
If only. Take jobs: When lauding the economy, Mr. Bernanke and many other economists and politicians point out, correctly, that the unemployment rate has declined from a recession high of 10.1 percent in late 2009 to 8.8 percent now. That would be encouraging news if it indicated robust hiring for good jobs. It does not.
Over the last year, the number of new hires has been outstripped by the masses who have either given up looking for work or who have not undertaken a consistent job search, say, after graduating from high school or college. Those missing millions are not counted in the official jobless rate; if they were, unemployment today would be 9.8 percent. The rate would be 15.7 percent if it included those who took part-time jobs in lieu of full-time ones.
Another purported bright spot in the unemployment data -- the relatively low jobless rate for college-educated workers -- does not stand up to scrutiny. For college educated workers over age 25, unemployment is indeed lower than for other groups. But for college graduates under age 25, unemployment over the last year has averaged 9.7 percent, and shows no sign of improvement.
Inflation is another example. Mr. Bernanke and others say that today's inflation will likely be temporary, and they are probably right. But one of the reasons for believing higher prices won't endure is that, in general, for inflation to take off, wages must also rise. There's no sign of that. Stagnant wages mean Americans will have to cut consumption in the face of higher prices, and as demand drops, prices are subdued -- hardly reason to cheer.
The economy still needs help and, specifically, a sustained focus on jobs and income. Instead, policy makers are gearing up for deep spending cuts, ignoring the damage they are likely to cause. Last quarter, cutbacks by governments at all levels took a chunk out of overall growth. If cuts of similar or greater magnitude become the norm, the slow economic pace of the first quarter also could very well become the norm. It's nice to believe slowing growth is transitory. But as long as spending, jobs and incomes are at risk and policy priorities are skewed, it's hard to believe in a turnaround.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (84%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); STATISTICS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



55 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: President's Vow Fulfilled

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's announcement late Sunday that Osama bin Laden had been killed delivered not only a long-awaited national security triumph to the United States, but also a significant victory for Mr. Obama, whose foreign policy has been the subject of persistent criticism by his rivals.
In his presidential campaign, Mr. Obama bluntly declared, ''We will kill bin Laden.'' But as time passed and other foreign crises arose, bin Laden's name had gradually fallen from presidential speeches and from political discourse, lettingcritics argue that the Obama administration was not sufficiently focused on the fight against terrorism. 
Appearing in the East Room of the White House, as jubilant crowds gathered outside waving American flags and cheering in celebration, Mr. Obama did not address his critics or gloat about his achievement. He instead used the moment to remember the victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and to issue a new call to the nation for unity.
''Let us think back to the sense of unity that prevailed on 9/11,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I know that it has, at times, frayed. Yet today's achievement is a testament to the greatness of our country and the determination of the American people.''
The development is almost certainly one of the most significant and defining moments in his presidency. It allows Mr. Obama to claim the biggest national security victory in a decade -- something that eluded President George W. Bush for nearly eight years -- and instantly burnishes his foreign policy credentials at a time when he has been questioned on his decisions on the Middle East. The gravity of the moment was impossible to minimize. At Ground Zero, in baseball stadiums and on college campuses across the country, elation erupted as though a war had been won. Indeed, one had.
Mr. Obama called Mr. Bush on Sunday evening to tell him that bin Laden had been killed. Shortly after Mr. Obama's announcement at the White House, Mr. Bush issued a statement congratulating his successor, saying, ''No matter how long it takes, justice will be done.''
The killing of bin Laden comes as the Obama administration faces questions about its strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The president revealed few details of the operation in his address on Sunday evening, but aides said he would address it more in the coming days, perhaps through another national address or in interviews.
Mr. Obama has been facing some of the lowest approval ratings of his presidency, largely because of domestic concerns over high gas prices and the rising federal debt. It remains an open question what lasting effect bin Laden's death will have on how Mr. Obama is seen by the American people, but it gives him an unmistakable advantage on national security heading into the 2012 presidential campaign.
''I don't care about the politics,'' said Ari Fleischer, who was the White House press secretary in Mr. Bush's first term. ''This is great news for our country.''
The reaction was swift on Sunday evening, with Democrats and Republicans alike hailing the moment. Some of Mr. Obama's rivals praised him, including Tim Pawlenty, a Republican and former governor of Minnesota.
''I want to congratulate America's armed forces and President Obama for a job well done,'' said Mr. Pawlenty, a frequent critic of the president's policies. ''Let history show that the perseverance of the U.S. military and the American people never wavered.''
Representative Peter King, a New York Republican who is chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, praised the president for signing off on the secret mission in Pakistan to capture bin Laden.
''In 2001, President Bush said 'we will not tire, we will not falter, and we will not fail,''' Mr. King said. ''President Bush deserves great credit for putting action behind those words. President Obama deserves equal credit for his resolve in this long war against al-Qaeda.''
It is too early to say to what degree the national security victory will bolster the president.(A White House official pointed to the lessons of 1992 , with President George H.W. Bush losing re-election a year after he won the first Iraq war.) The 2012 election is still likely to turn in large part on the economy, with unemployment and gas prices holding significant sway in the eyes of voters.
But Mr. Obama has unquestionably solidified his standing as the commander-in-chief. His world view is often challenged by his Republican rivals, who seek to portray him as a weak leader. That line of attack will almost certainly be more difficult to use against him as he begins running for a second term.
The president made clear in his remarks on Sunday evening that despite the death of bin Laden, the United States still faces serious national security threats.
''His death does not mark the end of our effort,'' Mr. Obama said. ''There's no doubt that al Qaeda will continue to pursue attacks against us. We must and we will remain vigilant at home and abroad.''
But as Mr. Obama spoke and the crowds continued to gather outside the White House, there was little question that his presidency had forever been changed by snaring bin Laden. The search for him has played out over Mr. Obama's maturation as a national political figure in the last decade.
''Today's achievement is a testament to the greatness of our country,'' Mr. Obama said, ''and the determination of the American people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); BASEBALL (63%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



56 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Aid Plan for Pakistan Falling Short, Officials Say

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
KHAJURI KACH, Pakistan -- A multibillion-dollar aid plan that the Obama administration hoped would win over Pakistanis and buttress the weak civilian government is foundering because Washington's fears of Pakistani corruption and incompetence has slowed disbursal of the money, undermining a fundamental goal of the United States in Pakistan, officials from both nations say.
The aid program promoted by Senator John Kerry, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, promised Pakistan $7.5 billion over five years, much of it delivered through the civilian government.
But so inadequate is Pakistan's civilian bureaucracy and so rife are United States fears of corruption in the government that American officials, constricted by layers of their own rules, have struggled to find safe places to actually invest the money available. Instead of polishing the tarnished image of America with a suspicious, even hostile, Pakistani public and government, the plan has resulted in bitterness and a sense of broken promises. 
In a scathing report, the Government Accountability Office said that only $179.5 million of the first $1.5 billion of the five-year program had been disbursed by last December.
Energy projects that the Obama administration said would improve electricity for households and energy-starved industries have been placed in out-of-the-way areas, and help for the crumbling education system has not materialized.
The United States Agency for International Development's director for Pakistan, Andrew B. Sisson, defended the pace of spending. ''This is a long-term enterprise, and building that takes time, and we're doing that,'' he said. The amount spent on projects from the $1.5 billion, he said, has risen to more than $200 million.
More than $1 billion in American aid was actually spent by U.S.A.I.D. in Pakistan last year from previously unused funds, Mr. Sisson said, including $500 million for flood victims.
During a visit to Pakistan in October 2009, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton announced that much of the American aid money would be devoted to ''seven signature projects.''
They included the Gomal Zam Dam here in South Waziristan, where $20 million helped build the spillway to a power plant lighting one of Pakistan's most neglected corners.
Built during the last eight years by Chinese engineers of the Sinohydro Corporation, the dam will serve the towns of Wana in South Waziristan and Tank in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province, far from Pakistan's biggest population centers.
But the Gomal dam -- and the other projects -- while helpful, barely qualify as ''signature,'' and none have been completely finished, said Nancy Birdsall, president of the Center for Global Development in Washington.
The overall goals of the aid program were unrealistic, she said. The Obama administration wanted big-impact projects that would win instant love for the civilian government and the United States.
The administration said it would funnel at least 50 percent of the funds through the Pakistani government, rather than using American contractors. The aim was to show America's commitment to the civilian government and help strengthen its ability to deliver to its citizens, American officials said. Moreover, the large overheads of American contracting companies would be eliminated, they said.
But the Americans have run into problems of corruption and incompetence on the civilian side. After nearly a decade of military rule in Pakistan -- the military has run Pakistan for about half of its six decades -- the three-year-old civilian government is deeply unpopular, having failed to provide a better life for Pakistanis.
The economy is failing. Education, health care and other services are almost nonexistent, while civilian leaders from the landed and industrialist classes pay hardly any taxes.
Pakistanis see the aid as a crude attempt to buy friendship and an effort to alleviate antipathy toward United States drone attacks against militants in the tribal areas. Last month, the chief minister of Punjab, Shahbaz Sharif, said that if America did not stop the drones, Pakistan should turn down the aid package.
Mr. Kerry, co-sponsor of the 2009 aid legislation with Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, acknowledged the disappointment.
''I understand that Pakistanis may be frustrated by the slow pace of projects,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''Moving this much money transparently through any bureaucracy is always a slow process, but the administration must move faster to implement projects.''
U.S.A.I.D. officials point to a report by the agency's Office of the Inspector General that highlighted the difficulties of operating effective, corruption-free projects in Pakistan. The first two years of a $750 million development program begun in the tribal areas in 2008 were plagued by allegations of corruption and the limitations of sending Americans to such a dangerous area. Only 53 percent of the planned projects had been carried out, the assessment said.
To keep a close watch on corruption, U.S.A.I.D. expanded its inspector general's office in Pakistan to nine auditors in 2010, from two in 2009. Already, the office has opened 12 cases so far this year -- involving bribery, kickbacks and collusion on bidding -- compared with 13 cases in 2010, the office said.
Another big goal for the $1.5 billion was to reconstruct schools in the Swat Valley, where the Pakistani Army fought the Taliban two years ago, leaving a devastated economy and hundreds of schools destroyed.
Of 115 schools that the aid agency promised to rebuild, none have been completed, said Ziauddin Yousafzai, the principal of a private school, who has watched the school program closely.
''At this hour, work has only started on 14 to 20 schools,'' Mr. Yousafzai said. One school on the outskirts of Mingora, Swat's main city, was ''like the Taj Mahal, very beautiful,'' he said. But it was only half done, he said.
The slow progress was due to a clash between Pakistani politicians at the provincial authority created to speed Swat reconstruction, and two monitoring agencies the United States employed to oversee the contracts, Mr. Yousafzai said.
Undeterred by the pace in Swat, Mr. Sisson, the U.S.A.I.D. official, said he was planning to spend $303 million building hundreds of schools in Punjab and Sindh Provinces in the next three years.
To overcome the letdown over the first $1.5 billion of the Kerry-Lugar funds, the Obama administration is considering offering start-up financing for a major dam project, Basha, in the northern region of Gilgit-Baltistan, which would help solve Pakistan's critical water shortages, American and Pakistani officials involved in the discussions said.
Sakib Sherani, a former principal economic adviser to the Finance Ministry, said that the United States would win more friends by offering trade concessions.
''They would have a big payoff for ordinary Pakistanis and wouldn't cost the American taxpayer -- chief of these would be access for Pakistani textiles,'' Mr. Sherani said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A barber, reflected in a mirror, near Lahore, Pakistan. An American aid plan intended to win friends here has done the opposite. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUHAMMED MUHEISEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAPS: One aid project was the Gomal Zam Dam in South Waziristan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (87%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); POWER PLANTS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (66%); FLOODS & FLOODING (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); JOHN KERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



57 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Organizing Now, Democrats Expect Tough Bid in 2012

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Republicans, with justification, shouted ''hypocrisy'' last week after former White House aides opened a campaign organization using the sort of anonymous donors condemned by President Obama.
But they also understood it as a compliment. That's because, in another springtime full of political disappointment, Democratic strategists have begun concluding that Mr. Obama faces a tougher-than-anticipated re-election fight.
Just as signs of economic recovery last year faded with the Greek financial crisis and the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the drop in unemployment and a rise in stock values to start off 2011 have been offset by higher gas prices and turmoil in Washington and abroad. Even as a flawed, boisterous group of Republican presidential challengers struggles for traction, Mr. Obama's own poll standing has drifted down - to 46 percent in the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll. 
''The significant challenges that President Obama will face are being masked by the weakness of the Republican field right now,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster.
Mr. Garin is advising Priorities USA, the new political group Republicans criticized. He believes that Democratic activists and donors, chuckling lately over the antics ofDonald J. Trump and other Republicans, need a wakeup call.
''It's not just, Obama needs to run hard,'' Mr. Garin said. ''Democrats have to take this seriously.''
The Shadow of 2008
Americans have voted for change in each of the last three national elections. And though the economy has recovered somewhat from the financial crisis Mr. Obama inherited, it has done so slowly and unevenly.
The unemployment rate has fallen from its double-digit peak, but remains high at 8.8 percent; the economy grew in the first quarter of this year, but only at a 1.8 percent annualized rate. The most recent New York Times/CBS News poll showed Americans more downbeat about the country's direction than they have been since the early weeks of Mr. Obama's administration.
''In a way, Obama's biggest obstacle to overcome in 2012 is Obama 2008,'' said Rachel Gorlin, a Democratic consultant. Voters ''just get this overall impression of things being out of control, that change hasn't happened. It's going to be one of the toughest runs for an incumbent president and his party in a long time.''
The national economy is Mr. Obama's biggest problem, but not his only one. Voters link increases in gas prices to the upheaval in the Middle East, as Libya follows Iraq and Afghanistan on the list of American military commitments.
The political brinkmanship that threatened a government shutdown before Mr. Obama and Republican lawmakers compromised on spending cuts underscored the sense of disorder in government. So has warfare in state capitals over budget problems mirroring Washington's.
Voters ''lump it all into: everything's a mess, and people in politics can't govern,'' said Bill Carrick, a Democratic strategist in California. On Mr. Obama, ''they're still trying to figure out what kind of leader he is.
''Is he effective? They haven't made up their minds on that.''
Rallying the Base
Congressional reapportionment after the 2010 census has already taken six electoral votes from states Mr. Obama carried. But the breadth of his 2008 victory gives Democrats some encouragement.
Even if the president cannot repeat his breakthroughs in Florida, Indiana, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia, he could win a 273-vote electoral majority by holding all of the other states he carried.
The White House counts on Republican overreaching to help do that, despite the struggling economy. By highlighting partisan differences on immigration, Democratic strategists see the possibility of expanding Mr. Obama's 67 percent showing among Hispanics, which helped deliver Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico in 2008.
The House Republicans' plan to transform Medicare provides an opening to regain ground among senior citizens, who helped erase the Democrats' House majority last November. Challenges to organized labor by Republican state leaders like Gov.Scott Walker of Wisconsin have alarmed a crucial element of the Democratic base.
And yet Democrats still see Wisconsin, which Republicans have lost in six straight presidential elections, as a battleground.
After carrying the state by 13 percentage points in 2008, ''Obama should be doing enormously better there,'' Ms. Gorlin said. ''It being in play means he can't take anything for granted.''
Ms. Gorlin worked on a recent Wisconsin Supreme Court election in which Democrats counted on a backlash against Mr. Walker to propel a powerful turnout. But Republicans' turnout was also impressive; their candidate leads in the recount.
That experience foreshadows the burden facing Democrats across the industrial Midwest and elsewhere in reviving some semblance of the 2008 enthusiasm they capitalized on among young voters, African-Americans and suburban women.
''This election is still going to be defined by how events unfold over the next year and a half, more than by anything we know for sure today,'' Mr. Garin said. ''The idea that it's over before it starts, in these circumstances, is crazy.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster, said, ''Democrats have to take this seriously.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); OIL SPILLS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011



58 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: Facebook Transcript: Live Chat on Bin Laden Death

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Michael D. Shear responded to comments and questions about Osama bin Laden's death and its political ramifications. 

 BODY:
On Monday afternoon, Michael D. Shear, the chief correspondent for The Caucus, participated in a live chat on The Times's Facebook page, responding to comments and questions about Osama bin Laden's death and its political ramifications. The following is a transcript of the questions Mr. Shear addressed and the answers he posted on Facebook. Thanks to everyone who participated; we hope to bring you more Facebook chats like this in the future.Q.Osama Bin Laden: Was he truly killed? Why bury him in the sea instead of showing his body as prove of identity, but instead they have his DNA that they may have gotten from one of his U.S.A.-friendly relatives? Or did they bury the biggest propaganda lie ever told to humanity?Rose Marie Arroyo Mendez A.The burial-at-sea question is among the most fascinating. John O. Brennan, the White House counterterrorism official, said in a briefing on Monday afternoon that they had determined that if they killed Bin Laden, they would dispose of his body according to Islamic law and ritual, which calls, Mr. Brennan said, for burial within 24 hours. He said they had determined that burying him in another country would have been too complicated -- they would not have gotten the permission, etc., within that 24-hour period. And so they determined that a sea burial could be done most efficiently.Q.Was the U.S.'s exclusion of the Pakistani government from this plan due in part to suspicion that they had failed to share intelligence about Bin Laden's whereabouts?Lateefah Brown A.Yes, administration officials said they kept the Pakistanis in the dark in an effort to make sure that details about the operation did not leak out, and out of a frustration that prior efforts to locate high-value terrorism targets had seemed to slip away. Having said that, White House officials said Monday that they continue to work with the Pakistanis in the fight against terrorism, and praised the Pakistanis for the work they have done in other raids, etc. The question going forward will be whether they find actual evidence that elements of the Pakistani government actively helped to hide Bin Laden, and if so, how President Obama deals with that.Q.What does it say about the U.S.A. that the only real events where people have celebrated in the streets as one true nation were the end of WW2 following Pearl Harbor attack, and also the death of Osama following the attacks of 9/11? Are there any other times [that] this type of celebrating has occurred?Jonathan LangdaleA.I was just talking about this with a colleague of mine here in the Washington bureau. I'm very interested in finding out how the United States is being viewed from abroad, especially how people in the Arab and Muslim worlds view the celebrations that broke out in Washington and New York last Sunday night and early Monday morning.Q.Why was the team instructed to kill, and not to try to capture [Bin Laden] if possible?Pannill CampA.It is not true that the team was instructed to kill, and not capture, Bin Laden, according to White House officials. Mr. Brennan, the counterterrorism chief, said in a briefing Monday that the commandos were instructed to take Bin Laden alive if they had the opportunity but were prepared to kill him if necessary. A White House official e-mailed the following to me this Monday morning: "U.S. forces are never in a position to kill if there is a way to accept surrender consistent with the ROE. That said, I think there was broad recognition that it was likely to end in a kill." "ROE" means "rules of engagement."Q.Who gets the reward??Rebecca GriffinA.Good question about who gets the bounty that has long been on Bin Laden's head. (I seem to recall it was $25 million for information leading to his arrest.) I haven't seen any good reporting on that, and given the kind of operation this was, I suppose we may never know.Q.What impact will this development have on President Obama's chances of being re-elected to a second term of office. Thank you in advance. A.Regarding the impact on the re-election campaign for Mr. Obama: I wrote Monday morning that it seems very clear that the Republican efforts to cast Mr. Obama as "indecisive and weak" -- which had been growing in recent weeks -- is likely to be sidelined after this development. At the very least, it will be harder for the Republicans to paint him that way, especially since the raid and its aftermath are quickly being burned into the public consciousness as a Jack Bauer-like moment. Here's the link to my story.Q.As a student journalist I'm curious: What is it like when you get a breaking story thrown your way so late in the day?Mike Donohue A.I can certainly say we are all a bit tired this morning. But it's also exhilarating. I've been a reporter for more than 20 years, and whenever these big stories come up -- even if it's the middle of the night -- there's nothing quite like it. And somehow the idea of going to sleep just never occurs to you.Q.How do you address the conspiracy theories surrounding the date of Osama Bin Laden's death?Chistopher MarchandA.On conspiracy theories: One of the things that became clear last week, when we were all consumed with questions about President Obama's birth certificate, is that there are some people who will never be convinced, even with evidence staring them in the face. With that in mind, Mr. Obama's top counterterrorism official, John Brennan, said just a few minutes ago that they are evaluating how much information -- including photos -- they can release in an effort to counter the kinds of conspiracy theories that are already beginning out there.Q.Why didn't anyone yell "STOP THE PRESSES!" last night? LOL! I was trying to find a paper copy of The New York Times for a keepsake and here in the Kansas City area, there aren't any with the Bin Laden headlines.Laurie HayesA.It's all about the Web now! Just kidding. As one of the people Sunday night racing against time to get articles in the paper, I can tell you that we tried as hard as we could. But the president didn't come on until late and the briefings at the White House were close to midnight. I suppose the papers that were printed in time to get to the Kansas City area must have been printed too early for the news.Q.Michael, I have heard mixed stories concerning the number of casualties resulting from the "firefight." Do you have knowledge of a real number? Were women used as human shields? Gardner MounceA.As to the number of people killed, Mr. Brennan told reporters Monday that there were four people killed, including Bin Laden, the courier who led them to the compound, the courier's brother, and a woman. Mr. Brennan identified her as, presumably, one of Bin Laden's wives, and said she was used to try to shield Bin Laden from the gunfire.Q.Since the information necessary to locate Bin Laden was gained via waterboarding, how will Mr. Obama and the Leftists react to waterboarding terrorists in the future? Will they change their opinions, or continue to condemn it publicly?Dennis Glenn SmithA.Administration officials did indicate that some of the information about the people who eventually led to Bin Laden did in fact come from some of those detained by the United States. But I do not believe they have said the information was "gained via waterboarding." I think there will be plenty of questions in the coming weeks about how the intelligence agencies got the information.Q.Michael, I agree, not a game changer. But when you're losing a game, one huge "win" can change the tide - momentum is key. I'm sure the Republicans will focus on the economy, jobs, health care, debt, etc. - but Mr. Obama's retort to that can simply be that he was focusing on getting Bin Laden, and now that he's dead, he can start keeping some of the promises that were made four years ago.Lucas Marius OstrowskiA.Is this a game changer? You make the point that one huge win can change the tide and the momentum. That's often true in politics. One interesting thing to watch will be the poll numbers, but be careful -- as my colleagues in our polling unit have noted, the first polls that will be fully accurate will be those taken entirely after the announcement on Sunday, and we won't get those until Thursday at the earliest. Here's their story.Also see this video segment from my colleague Jeff Zeleny.Q.Will our gas prices go down due to Osama's death?A.Great question about the potential link between Bin Laden's death and gas prices. I noted early Monday morning that oil futures were lower, suggesting that the market was unfazed by the news. Honestly, I haven't looked since then to see what oil prices have done. But I would think that if there is retaliation or other activity that suggests unrest of instability in the region, that could certainly affect the price of a tank of gas -- and not for the better.Q.Michael - are you 100 percent sure we don't see a "Wag the Dog" here?Robert SchultesA.Regarding my faith in the information I get from the administration: I maintain a healthy skepticism in a situation like this. I've already had several conversations with colleagues of mine in which we are trying to probe their answers to see if they add up, and if we can get independent confirmation of what they are saying. Please do keep coming back to the Times Web site or get a copy of our paper in the coming days, because we will all be trying to check their stories. Having said that, I also try to stick with what I know, or what is being said by official sources in these early moments, because there's lot of rumor and innuendo out there and I don't want to be part of spreading it.

        
Obama Fills a Gap in the Seals' Tool Kit
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
'Job Well Done,' Obama Tells Assault Team
        
N.E.A. Advances Endorsement for Obama in 2012
        
Pawlenty Hopes 'I'm Sorry' Is Enough

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); RELIGION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) 2012; barack obama; facebook; osama bin laden; The Caucus

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



59 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Urges Small Banks to Embrace Dodd-Frank

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: In a speech to the Independent Community Bankers of America, Neal S. Wolin, deputy secretary of the Treasury, said small banks would benefit from new financial regulations. 

 BODY:
The Obama administration has trumpeted its recent overhaul of financial rules as a stern warning to Wall Street.
Community bankers, on the other hand, need not fear the new regulatory regime, the administration says. 
Financial agencies are working to make sure "regulations protect the system but don't hurt small banks or prevent them from doing their job," the deputy secretary of the Treasury, Neal S. Wolin, said in a speech on Monday to the Independent Community Bankers of America, a powerful lobbying group in Washington. 
"We are committed to working with you -- whether through financial reform or small business programs -- to make sure that community banks are able to play their important role in a stronger financial system and a strengthened economy," he added.
In response to the near collapse of the financial system in 2008, Congress last year passed the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposed restrictions on asset-backed securities, the derivatives industry and proprietary trading -- some of Wall Street's main profit centers. But the law largely exempted about 7,000 community banks and thrift institutions, nearly all of which hold less than $10 billion in assets and a third of which hold less than $100 million. 
Still, financial lobbyists and Congressional Republicans have painted community banks as victims under the new regulatory regime. 
Mr. Wolin said those complaints were misleading. 
"In fact, the lawmakers who drafted the legislation took great care to protect and strengthen the country's rich network of community banks," he said, adding that regulators were "searching for ways to make regulations better, less duplicative and less burdensome."
The law, he said, "recognized the importance of community banks and understood that they did not cause the crisis."
Dodd-Frank, Mr. Wolin said, actually helps many small banks by putting them "on more equal footing with their competitors." The law, for instance, enforces new capital and liquidity requirements for big Wall Street firms -- rules that do not apply to the community banks.
Mr. Wolin also said small banks had a friend in the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which subjects payday lenders and mortgage firms to new requirements that match up with restrictions facing the banking industry.
Elizabeth Warren, who is setting up the consumer agency, has held regular meetings with industry trade groups, including the independent bankers association, "to make certain that the perspectives of small banks and credit unions are well-represented within the consumer agency," he said. 
Mr. Wolin did take aim at Wall Street lobbyists and Republican lawmakers, who are seeking to derail Dodd-Frank. In the House and Senate, lawmakers have crafted bills that would repeal the law altogether.
"There are many critics who are attempting to slow down or defund implementation, or who seek to repeal the statute entirely," he said. "I want to remind them that in the absence of the proper protections -- in effect, in the absence of the protections that this legislation puts in place -- our system descended into a crisis that had tremendous costs to businesses, to the economy and to the American people."

        
Treasury Takes On Wall Street Lobbyists
        
Wall Street Lobbies Treasury on Dodd-Frank

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (94%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (92%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CREDIT UNIONS (60%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (50%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Dodd-Frank Act; Elizabeth Warren; Independent Community Bankers of America; Neal S. Wolin; Treasury Department; Wolin, Neal S; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Treasury Department

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Wolin, Neal S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



60 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Wrath for Airlines As Airports Face Their Own Problems

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
TUCSON
AIRPORTS, I always say, are the only aspect of air travel that has improved markedly over the last decade.
But as I quickly found out here on Monday, at the annual conference of domestic airport executives sponsored by the Airports Council International-North America, airports are worried about uncertain federal aid.
The long-delayed Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill continues to languish in Congress as lawmakers argue about how much money to cut. 
In opening remarks at the conference, Catherine Lang, the F.A.A.'s deputy associate administrator for airports, said she worried about the prospect of ''half-built runway projects and half-built terminals,'' as well as cuts in inspection efforts and other basic services.
The airlines, meanwhile, are making increasing demands as airports limp along on stopgap financing extensions -- 18 so far. ''I suspect this is just the starting challenge of this new environment'' in air travel, Ms. Lang said.
She added, ''It's time we started asking new questions'' about what we Americans really expect from our air transportation infrastructure.
Certainly, we don't have the same positive feelings about airlines as we do about airports.
Last week, after writing about the proliferation of airline fees and higher fares amid a steady decline in service, I asked readers if they were changing their air travel behavior.
The airlines won't be happy with what I heard.
''Basically, and to the extent possible, my days of traveling by air are mostly over,'' one reader, Catherine Oleson, said. ''And this goes double for domestic U.S. airlines.''
She said she avoided air travel ''due to the airlines' ongoing efforts to squeeze every single last nickel out of the passengers, while reducing to next to nil every comfort and trust factor involved with flying. No leg (or arm) room. No food. Canceled flights, often for no visible reason.''
She also mentioned fees for checked bags and deteriorating customer service.
''These stupid and unfair baggage fees lead inevitably to the overstuffing of the inadequate overhead bin storage,'' she said.
She went on, ''Airline employees, especially the gate, counter, and on-board staff, have been stretched so thin by their employers, and have been so beaten up by their tired and impatient customers, that many of them are at the end of their tether, and no longer able to respond in a civil manner to even the most ordinary and civil inquiry.''
John Heaney, another reader, said he plugged in his earphones on a recent flight to listen to the classical music channel. ''I then discovered there was an extra charge,'' he said.
Airlines are also raising extra revenue by adding charges for some coach seats that used to be assigned free.
Jordan Whitley wrote, ''If I want to change my seat from a window to an aisle on the same row, that seat is Economy Plus, which somehow has more legroom and costs $39.''
Roberta Gordon said she liked aisle seats, but on her regular airline ''these are now premium seats with a surcharge, $60 I think.''
Because of such annoyances, she said, ''Flying these days is totally obnoxious.''
A business traveler, who asked that his name not be used, had an even stronger assessment.
''Domestic airlines these days treat you just like a rat,'' he said.
Zita Carno cited security hassles for recently canceling a first-class reservation.
''Yes,'' he wrote, ''the airlines have seen the last of me. From now on it's either take a train or drive.''
Glenn Runyan said he planned to drive from his home near Denver to North Carolina for a wedding. ''We never considered flying,'' he said.
Andrew Borders told me, ''Even with the price of gas, I'd still much, much rather get in my car and drive -- anywhere with land in between here and there -- than put up with the cost and inconvenience of flying.''
Jack Ellis told me he once had elite status on three airlines and was a private pilot. Owning a small plane means he can fly himself more often as commercial service has become less viable.
''Not counting fixed costs, flying myself to meetings within 500 or 600 miles is cost-effective and usually takes no longer than flying commercial,'' Mr. Ellis said.
Charles V. Bremer was very definitive. ''I will never set foot in an airport again,'' partly because of ''that T.S.A. nonsense,'' he said.
He said he used trains when possible, and for a trip later this year, he and his wife opted for yet another form of transportation to London.
''We will go over and back on the Queen Mary 2,'' he said.
Airports are aware that they're stuck between upset travelers and uncertain federal financing.
The situation, said Greg Principato, president of the airports' organization, has ''certainly changed everything we can do, and not for the better.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (76%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



61 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Afghans Fear West May See Death as the End

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- In Afghanistan, where Osama bin Laden was based for many years and where Al Qaeda helped to train and pay insurgents, there was relief and uncertainty about how his death would play out in the fraught regional power politics now shaping the war. While senior political figures welcomed the news of his death, they cautioned that it did not necessarily translate into an immediate military victory over the Taliban, and urged the United States and NATO not to use it as a reason to withdraw.
''The killing of Osama should not be seen as mission accomplished,'' said Hanif Atmar, a former interior minister who has been a strong opponent of the Taliban. ''Al Qaeda is much more than just Osama bin Laden.'' 
''Mission accomplished means destroy, dismantle and defeat A.Q.,'' he said. ''And this should not be used as a justification for premature withdrawal. On the contrary, with this effort and the results it produced, it means we must stay the course.''
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan described the killing of Bin Laden by the Americans as ''punishment for his deeds'' and reminded the country that his government has long urged Western countries to hunt for terrorists outside Afghanistan.
''The world should realize as we said many many times, and continue to say everyday, the fight against terrorism is not in Afghanistan's villages, the fight against terrorism is not in the houses of poor and oppressed Afghans, the fight is not in bombing women and children,'' he said. ''The fight against terrorism is in its sanctuaries, in its training camps and its finance centers, not in Afghanistan and today it has been proved we were right.''
His remarks, made before an audience of district development council members in Kabul where he had a scheduled speech, reminded people that as much as Americans had been victims, Afghans were victims as well.
''Before the 9/11 event in New York City where 3,000 were killed, for many years he was killing and harassing the people of Afghanistan,'' Mr. Karzai said. ''After that and right up until today, the innocent people of Afghanistan die and are wounded and suffer from terrorists and their activities.''
Former members of the Taliban who are now part of the reconciliation efforts with the movement said they believed that Bin Laden's death would drive the Taliban to make a deal to stop fighting and become a political force in Afghanistan.
The Afghan Taliban had no immediate statement.
''This is a big blow to Al Qaeda and Al Qaeda's followers because he was a popular and famous figure, and he was a very expert man and was planning major attacks,'' said Arsala Rahmani, a former Taliban member who is now part of the High Peace Council.
''I don't think this will affect the Taliban fight in Afghanistan in the short term, but in the long term it will because Al Qaeda helped the Taliban in fighting and other activities,'' he said, adding that he thought it would drive the Taliban toward negotiations and making peace with the government ''because they don't have any other way.''
Bin Laden's greatest enemies, including the family of Ahmad Shah Massoud, the Taliban opposition leader who was killed two days before the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, also cautioned that the fight in Afghanistan was far from over. ''It is a relief for us to see a culprit who has been killed and it's a relief for the people of Afghanistan, but it doesn't mean it's the end of the story,'' said Ahmad Wali Massoud, his brother.
''Al Qaeda has grown much bigger than Osama himself, so we shouldn't jump to the conclusion that things will be much affected by having him gone,'' he said. ''For the past couple of years, when the Americans killed the main commanders of the Taliban in Pakistan and Afghanistan, a younger generation took over that was even more extreme and emotional.''
Afghans, who have a tense relationship with neighboring Pakistan, said they believed that Bin Laden's location within the country proved Pakistani officials had lied about his whereabouts, and that raised doubts about Pakistan's support for a peace deal with the Taliban.
''Since Sept. 11, since Tora Bora, I have always said he was in Pakistan,'' said Abdullah Abdullah, a leading political opposition figure. ''And it was always denied, always denied and this has put an end to it, now where are the others? Zawahri? Where is Mullah Omar?'' he asked, referring to the No. 2 Al Qaeda leader, Ayman al-Zawahri, and the longtime leader of the Afghan Taliban, Mullah Muhammad Omar. ''It's like half the job is done, but the rest is not an easy ride.''
Mr. Atmar, the former interior minister, raised similar questions. He said that the Taliban's main sources of income now were Pakistan's intelligence service; Al Qaeda's global fundraising network; and the money from Afghanistan's war economy, including from opium poppies, extortion from Western companies doing business and illegal taxation of Afghans.
How Bin Laden's death reverberates here will depend a great deal on how Pakistan behaves and whether it now makes moves against terrorist groups linked to Al Qaeda, Mr. Atmar said.
''The provision of sanctuaries by Pakistan is something that Afghan leaders have been highlighting for the past 10 years,'' Mr. Atmar said, adding that they have also questioned Pakistan's protection and financial support of the Taliban leadership and foot soldiers who live part time in Pakistan.
''Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani could not come and operate in Afghanistan without the help of the Afghan Taliban, of Al Qaeda, and that could not happen without ISI,'' he said, referring to two of the most lethal insurgent groups here that work with the Taliban and to the Inter-Services Intelligence directorate, Pakistan's primary spy agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); TALIBAN (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); POLITICS (77%); BOMBINGS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (92%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



62 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Americans Favor Budget Cuts Over Raising Corporate Tax

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY; Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
While most Americans say corporations do not pay their fair share in taxes, they still prefer cuts in government spending to increasing taxes on corporations as a means of cutting the federal budget deficit, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. 
But when given a choice between raising taxes on corporations and raising taxes on households that make more than $250,000 a year, almost two-thirds of respondents opt for taxing businesses.
There is a strong partisan divide: A majority of Republicans and independents favor cutting government spending over raising taxes on businesses, while Democrats are evenly divided. Democrats strongly support increasing corporate taxes rather than adding to the taxes of affluent households; Republicans and independents are closely divided.
In general, however, few Americans back increasing taxes on American businesses: only 37 percent said corporate taxes should be increased to help reduce the federal budget deficit. The rest agree with an alternative argument that increased taxes would discourage American companies from creating jobs and hurt them in the global marketplace. Thirty-two percent would rather see corporate taxes remain as they are now and 26 percent said taxes on corporate profits should be decreased.
''If you increase taxes, you limit the ability to produce and compete, especially in a global market,'' Larry Williams, 70, of Hoover, Ala., said in a follow-up interview. ''If we increase taxes on manufacturers, they will turn around and send the work overseas because that's the only way they can survive,'' said Mr. Williams, a retired business owner.
Six in 10 Americans surveyed think companies use their tax savings to give bonuses to executives and dividends to shareholders. About a quarter, 23 percent, said they thought tax savings were mostly reinvested back in the corporation and only 4 percent said savings were used to create new jobs for American workers.
Almost half, 46 percent, said all companies should be taxed at the same rate. About a third said some industries deserved a tax break. Small businesses, green companies and those in the health care industry were most frequently mentioned as deserving of tax breaks. ''In this economy we should be supporting smaller business owners, who will, hopefully, eventually turn into larger business owners,'' said Scott Cochran, 34, a furniture designer who owns his own business in Columbus, Ohio.
The nationwide telephone survey was conducted March 2 to 7 with 1,266 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. The complete methodology and questionnaire are available at NYTimes.com.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Public's Attitude Toward Corporate Taxes: Even though Americans think corporations pay less than their fair share in taxes, they express little support for raising taxes on American companies. According to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, the public would rather cut government spending to help reduce the budget deficit than tax corporate profits more. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (93%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); JOB CREATION (87%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



63 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Inside The TImes

 BODY:
International
FORMER LEADER'S RETURN
CASTS SHADOW IN SURINAME
Desi Bouterse has been a soldier, a coup plotter, the military ruler of Suriname, and for more than a decade, a fugitive from Interpol. Now he is leader of the small South American nation yet again, stirring fears of a possible return to the time when Suriname was renowned for its openness to criminal enterprise. PAGE A4
TURKEY SHUTS LIBYA EMBASSY 
Turkey closed its embassy in Tripoli, Libya, apparently worried about the angry crowds that had threatened diplomats from the United Nations and NATO countries after the airstrike that the Libyan government said killed a son of Colonel Muammar el-Qaddafi and three of his grandchildren. PAGE A8
National
RULE WOULD HINDER STATES
FROM CUTTING MEDICAID
In a new effort to increase access to health care for poor people, the Obama administration is proposing a rule that would make it much more difficult for states to cut Medicaid payments to doctors and hospitals. PAGE A9
CASE ON LAWYER COMPETENCE
The Supreme Court will decide next week whether to hear the appeal of a man convicted of murder, despite no evidence linking him to the crime. The appeal claims that his lawyers badly bungled his alibi defense. Adam Liptak, Sidebar. PAGE A11
A.A.U. REMOVES NEBRASKA
For the first time in its 111-year history, the Association of American Universities, an organization made up of the nation's leading research universities has voted to oust one of its members, the University of Nebraska at Lincoln. PAGE A10
New York
DRUG AND ASSAULT CHARGES
FOR TRENTON'S DEPUTY MAYOR
The second-ranking city official in Trenton was arrested and charged with heroin possession and assaulting two police officers, the latest blow to an administration that has lurched from crisis to crisis since taking office in July. PAGE A16
BUS CRASH VICTIM BURIED
More than seven weeks after he died in the crash of a bus returning to New York from a casino in Connecticut, Wang Jianhua was finally laid to rest after a small funeral that was just as quiet as his life. He was the last of the 15 crash victims to receive funeral rites. PAGE A17
Business
BUSINESS GRADUATES TURN
TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP
A growing number of business school students are rejecting traditional postgraduate paths like investment banking, hedge funds and consulting. It's a trend that is accelerating in the wake of the financial crisis as Wall Street loses its luster and Silicon Valley shines with a new crop of multibillion-dollar start-ups. PAGE B5
RARE EARTHS PRICES SOAR
World prices have doubled in the last four months for rare earths -- metallic elements needed for many of the most sophisticated civilian and military technologies, whether smartphones or smart bombs. And this year's increases come atop price gains of as much as fourfold during 2010. PAGE B1
CHRYSLER POSTS PROFIT
The Chrysler Group, two years removed from its descent into bankruptcy, posted its first quarterly profit since 2006, as the company sold more cars and trucks at higher prices. PAGE B1
Obituaries
MOSHE LANDAU, 99
He was a refugee from Nazi Germany, and became the presiding judge in the war-crimes trial of Adolf Eichmann. PAGE A21
Arts
THE DROLL, BUZZING
GRANDPAS OF RAP
The Beastie Boys give their hip-hop time machine another ride into the 1980s on ''Hot Sauce Committee Part Two,'' their eighth studio album, while Aretha Franklin's ''Aretha: A Woman Falling Out of Love,'' marks her first album on her own label. PAGE C1
Sports
COURT MULLS N.F.L. REQUEST
FOR STAY OF INJUNCTION
N.F.L. owners and players remained in a holding pattern Monday, as a federal appeals court considered the league's request for a full stay of the injunction that lifted the seven-week-old lockout last week. The lockout went back in place Friday night, when the appeals court granted the league a temporary stay, buying the three-judge panel more time to consider arguments by both sides. PAGE B15
LAMENTING THE SONICS
Greg Bishop writes that he wants to root for the Oklahoma City Thunder. He likes the team and the way it plays. But he cannot, because it feels like taking 20-plus years of rooting for the Seattle SuperSonics, the team the Thunder once was, and pretending they never existed. Off the Dribble. PAGE B12
Science Times
TUGGING AT THREADS
TO UNSPOOL TORTURE STORIES
A treatment center opened in northeast Amman, Jordan, in December 2008 to help Iraqis who were tortured in their own country or who suffer from other war trauma. Researchers say its services, which involve intensive talk therapy, are desperately needed: There are many torture victims in the Middle East, but little expert help. PAGE D1
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23
JOE NOCERA PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); COUPS (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); ALIBI (76%); MURDER (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); ARRESTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); HEROIN (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (72%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (65%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) SURINAME (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



64 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Bucking Trend, Connecticut Budget Deal Raises Taxes, Gasoline Excepted

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
Driving against traffic in an antitax era, Connecticut lawmakers appear poised to approve a two-year, $40.2 billion budget that includes $1.5 billion in increased taxes on income, corporations and an array of purchases and services, from yachts to yoga classes.
Budget negotiators reached an agreement over the weekend on a deal that came together after they decided, in the face of soaring gasoline prices, to drop a tax increase of 3 cents a gallon that Gov. Dannel P. Malloy proposed in mid-February. The agreement went to the State Senate for a possible vote on Monday and is scheduled to go to the House of Representatives on Tuesday. 
With Democrats in control of the governor's mansion and both houses of the legislature, Connecticut appears on track to have a budget months earlier than has been the rule under the divided government of the past two decades.
Mr. Malloy and Democratic leaders said their plan spread the fiscal pain around, with both tax increases and spending cuts, and tried to put government on a sustainable path in a state with the highest rate of debt per capita in the country. Republicans said the proposal was a reckless throwback to an era of government overreach and profligate spending.
The budget would raise the general sales tax to 6.35 percent from 6 percent, and remove exemptions for many goods and services, including clothing and footwear less than $50, yoga instruction and smoke cessation products. It would impose new taxes on luxury items like plastic surgery, pet grooming and spa services.
As officials in nearby states -- including New York, New Jersey and Massachusetts -- have become conspicuous converts to the current antitax, antigovernment fever, Mr. Malloy and Connecticut Democrats are striking a more anomalous course, betting that residents will accept the short-term pain of tax increases if they see a long-term gain of stable government services and fiscal policy.
First, though, the state has to navigate what could be a tumultuous week, as lawmakers take up the budget before they know the outcome of high-stakes negotiations that have been going on for almost two months between the governor and the state's public-employee unions over the $1 billion in annual cuts needed to make the plan work.
If Mr. Malloy and the unions come to an agreement by Friday, it would provide the cost savings needed to balance the budget and complete the process at a breakneck pace. If they do not, the result is likely to be widespread layoffs and a messy spate of spending cuts after the budget has already been passed.
The governor's approach is ''a very different path than most other states,'' said Roy Occhiogrosso, senior adviser to Mr. Malloy. ''It has not just the rhetoric of what the governor says are shared sacrifices, but the reality of it as well. The value of it is that it gets you quickly to a place where the state's finances are stabilized, and it's done in a responsible and humane fashion.''
Republicans proposed a budget that they said was balanced without any tax increases. Mr. Malloy, they said, is flying in the face of public sentiment in Connecticut and across the country in pushing through a major tax increase, and trying to do it so quickly.
''The haste is simply about trying to pass the largest tax increase in Connecticut history in the hopes that people either won't notice it or will forget about it sooner rather than later,'' said Christopher C. Healy, chairman of the state Republican Party. ''And now you've got the perfect cover of the great news of the disappearance from this earth of Osama bin Laden. The Democrats have long relied on the public's being either oblivious or resigned to their fate, so they figure the earlier they get a tax hike on the books, the better.''
Mr. Malloy is counting on an agreement with the unions and a restructuring that will cut the number of state agencies to 57 from 81. Although the cuts remain uncertain, the tax increases are quite clear.
They extend from human pleasures (a new 3 percent ''cabaret tax'' on establishments that offer live music, dancing or other entertainment while serving alcohol) to nonhuman ones (pet boarding and obedience classes) and even to life's aftermath (the cremation certificate fee increases to $150 from $40). One viewed as particularly problematic is the so-called ''Amazon tax,'' requiring certain remote sellers with no physical presence in Connecticut to collect sales taxes. The state's Department of Revenue Services said it was probably unenforceable.
The budget would increase marginal tax rates on incomes over $100,000 for joint filers, $50,000 for single filers and married people filing separately, and $80,000 for heads of households.
Still, as a product of hard times, the budget agreement could be complicated by the degree to which times at the moment are not quite as hard as they have been. Officials said last week that the surplus for the current year was growing by $300 million, and the revenue estimates for the next fiscal year are up by $282 million. That is good news for the state, but uncertain tidings for the budget. Republicans are already saying the surpluses are evidence that the tax increases are excessive, and unions are likely to argue that the $1 billion in proposed cuts is now more than what is needed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); YOGA (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); LAYOFFS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); LUXURY GOODS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



65 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Shrugs Off Death of Bin Laden and Turns Attention to Earnings

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; David Jolly and Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Wall Street dipped slightly on Monday as investors gave a muted response to news of the death of Osama bin Laden, instead focusing on corporate results and mergers.
The three main indexes initially rose as investors tried to assess the future of global security. But shares lost their momentum as the session wore on.
''The Osama bin Laden situation really had a nice impact at the open,'' said Douglas S. Roberts, the chief investment strategist for the Channel Capital Research Institute. ''It looks like a lot of that might have been short-covering.'' 
Jeffrey Kleintop, the chief market strategist for LPL Financial, called the early rise a knee-jerk reaction.
''Then a thoughtful process comes out,'' he said, ''that maybe the risks have shifted.''
At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was 3.18 points lower, at 12,807.36, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.39 points, or 0.18 percent, to 1,361.22. The technology-heavy Nasdaq lost 9.46 points, or 0.33, percent, at 2,864.08.
The S.& P. health care index was up more than 1 percent after Teva Pharmaceutical Industries said it had agreed to buy the biopharmaceutical company Cephalon for $6.8 billion, a deal unanimously approved by the boards of the two companies.
Teva shares rose more than 3 percent, to $47.27, while Cephalon was up more than 4 percent at $80.11.
The dollar was mixed. The euro rose to $1.4846 from $1.4806 late Friday, while the British pound slipped to $1.6683 from $1.6706. The dollar rose to 81.30 yen, from 81.20 yen.
The dollar has been weak across the board, with United States interest rates low and some central banks beginning to lift rates. Debt limit negotiations in Congress are not helping, said Brian Dolan, the chief currency strategist at Forex.com.
The Treasury Department said it would initiate emergency measures on Friday to keep the federal government's total borrowing under the maximum allowed by law, as Congress continues to debate the terms of any increase in the debt ceiling.
''It is still a weak dollar environment,'' Mr. Dolan said. ''That is the significant takeaway: the dollar downtrend is very much intact.''
The Japanese and South Korean markets were already 1 percent higher before President Obama announced late Sunday that American forces had killed Bin Laden in Pakistan.
By the close, the Nikkei 225 index had gained 1.6 percent, to 10,004.20 points, the first time the index closed above 10,000 since the devastating earthquake and tsunami struck the country on March 11.
In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, slipped 0.1 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris rose 1.85 points and the DAX in Frankfurt rose 0.18 percent. London markets were closed for a bank holiday.
On the economic front, the Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing executives, said its index of manufacturing activity dipped to 60.4 in April but remained above 60 for a fourth month. That was down from 61.2 in March and 61.4 in February, the fastest expansion in nearly seven years. A reading above 50 signals growth.
In addition, construction spending rose 1.4 percent in March, helped by an increase in spending on home-improvement projects.
In other corporate news, Arch Coalsaid it would buy the International Coal Group in a cash deal worth $3.4 billion that will create one of the world's largest coal producers. Arch shares fell 2.2 percent to $33.53, while International Coal rose more than 30 percent to $14.43.
Dish Network and the EchoStar Corporationhave agreed to payTiVo $500 million to settle a patent infringement lawsuit involving TiVo's video recording technology, putting an end to a long and costly legal battle. Stock in TiVo rose more than 3 percent to close at $9.86.
Many analysts cautioned, however, that Bin Laden's death could stoke, rather than ease, worries about oil supplies and global security in the longer run if it led to retaliatory attacks.
Energy stocks were lower. Crude oil slipped 41 cents to settle at $113.52 a barrel in volatile trading in New York.
Spot gold fell $18.35, to $1,545.35 an ounce.
Silver prices dropped more than 5 percent on Monday, a decline attributed to a decision by the CME Group, which is the parent of the Chicago Board of Trade, to increase the margins for futures trading on silver.
In the bond market, the benchmark 10-year bond gained 2/32, while the yield fell to 3.28 percent, from 3.29 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, where stocks slipped slightly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); DEBT CEILING (85%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); EURO (69%); EURO ZONE (64%); BRITISH POUND (63%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); EARTHQUAKES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (56%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (70%); TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (67%); GAIN CAPITAL HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: TEVA (TASE) (67%); TEVA (NYSE) (67%); GCAP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (67%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (67%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



66 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Number of Fans Taken Out to the Ballgame

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The Cleveland Indians are baseball's biggest surprise, and to some degree, its biggest secret.
On Sunday, the Indians won their 13th consecutive home game -- a 5-4 victory over the Tigers in their last at-bat -- giving them the best record in major leagues. Unfortunately, more than two-thirds of the seats at Cleveland's Progressive Field were empty, underscoring the difficulty that some baseball teams, and in particular, the Indians, have had over the first month of the season in getting people to come to the ballpark.
Despite their resurgence after two seasons in which they failed to win even 70 games, the Indians have the lowest average attendance in baseball in 2011, with a figure of 14,275 people a game. The weather provides something of an excuse -- at most of Cleveland's home games in April, temperatures have been below 50 degrees. But season-ticket sales are at their lowest since the Indians moved into their current stadium in 1994, which speaks of other problems not so easily remedied. 
''We've dealt with some extreme weather and a very low season-ticket base, and that creates challenges because there isn't a sense of urgency to come to the ballpark,'' said Mark Shapiro, the president of the Indians.
He said the club had started to have an uptick in advance ticket sales for some games and that local television ratings were very strong. Still, with a local economy that has not recovered and with skepticism that the team is for real and worth spending money on, it may be awhile before there is a real surge of ticket-buyers.
The Kansas City Royals face a similar challenge. They have the second-lowest attendance this season -- 16,985 a game -- even though they are right behind the Indians in second place in the American League Central and almost as much of a surprise as Cleveland is.
Over all, baseball attendance is 1.3 percent lower than at the same period last season, according to Baseball-Reference.com, and 20 of the sport's 30 teams have drawn fewer fans.
One reason is the weather. It is has affected more areas than just Cleveland, with 17 games rained out through Sunday compared to two a year ago.
Then there are the Mets and the Los Angeles Dodgers, each embroiled in ownership problems that may be affecting their images. The Dodgers have drawn 14.5 percent fewer fans this season, and the Mets have had a decline of 15 percent. (The Yankees are also down, by 7.6 percent, but they have played more home games than anyone else, 18, and have been affected by the rainy weather.)
Attendance traditionally picks up in the summer when school is out and pennant races start to take shape. Teams also add more promotions when the weather improves. Whether that will help Major League Baseball reverse a three-year decline in attendance is unclear.
Still, several teams have had significant increases in attendance to offset some of the gloomier news elsewhere. Not surprisingly, the San Francisco Giants and the Texas Rangers, who faced off in the World Series in 2010, have had double-digit increases in ticket sales. And the Colorado Rockies, who are in first place, have sold 19.8 percent more tickets so far.
Doing even better are the Cincinnati Reds, who made it back to the postseason last year for the first time in 15 years. They have had a 21.3 percent increase in ticket sales and a 55 percent jump in ratings for its games televised on Fox Sports Ohio.
''What happened last year with Jay Bruce's walk-off home run that clinched the division, then starting this season with Ramon Hernandez's walk-off home run, has kept the momentum going for both our players and our fans,'' said Michael Anderson, a team spokesman.
On the map, Cincinnati and Cleveland are 240 miles apart. At the turnstile, the gap seems to be a lot bigger, at least for now.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Tuesday about the difficulty of the Cleveland Indians in selling tickets despite their success on the field misstated the title of Mark Shapiro, a team executive. He is the president, not the general manager, a position he held until October 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shin-Soo Choo has helped the Indians compile the majors' best record. But the team has the lowest average attendance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JARED WICKERHAM/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); WEATHER (78%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



67 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Bin Laden's Dead. Al Qaeda's Not.

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. CLARKE. 
Richard A. Clarke, the counterterrorism coordinator at the National Security Council from 1993 to 2001, is the author of ''Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror.''

 BODY:
Washington
THE United States needed to eliminate Osama bin Laden to fulfill our sense of justice and, to a lesser extent, to end the myth of his invincibility. But dropping Bin Laden's corpse in the sea does not end the terrorist threat, nor does it remove the ideological motivation of Al Qaeda's supporters.
Often forgotten amid the ugly violence of Al Qaeda's attacks was that the terrorists' declared goal was to replace existing governments in the Muslim world with religiously pure Islamist states and eventually restore an Islamic caliphate. High on Al Qaeda's list of targets was Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak. The protesters of Tahrir Square succeeded in removing him without terrorism and without Al Qaeda. 
Thus, even before Bin Laden's death, analysts had begun to argue that Al Qaeda was rapidly becoming irrelevant. With Bin Laden's death, it is even more tempting to think that the era of Al Qaeda is over.
But such rejoicing would be premature. To many Islamist ideologues, the Arab Spring simply represents the removal of obstacles that stood in the way of establishing the caliphate. Their goal has not changed, nor has their willingness to use terrorism.
In the months ahead, Bin Laden's death may encourage Al Qaeda to stage an attack to counter the impression that it is out of business. The more significant threat, however, will come from Al Qaeda's local affiliates. Bin Laden and his deputies designed Al Qaeda as a network of affiliated groups that could operate largely independently to attack America, Europe and secular governments in the Middle East in order to establish fundamentalist regimes. Once in place, the network no longer needed Bin Laden and, in fact, has been proceeding with minimal direction from him for several years.
The affiliates that Bin Laden helped to create, including Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and Al Shabab in Somalia, are still recruiting and financing terrorists and training them for attacks. Neither the events of Tahrir Square nor the raid on Bin Laden's hideout is likely to significantly diminish the appeal of Islamist extremism to those who have been receptive to it.
In many Muslim societies, there remains a radical stratum born of a sense of victimization by the West, fueled by inefficient and corrupt governments, and carried forward by an enormous youth population. Al Qaeda was and is simply a pressure valve, an early form of connective social media that allowed young, militant jihadists fed up with the West and their own governments to organize and vent their anger.
Believing that their religion requires them to act violently against nonbelievers in the West and impure, apostate Muslim elites, the Islamist extremists will not be stopped by the elimination of Al Qaeda's leader or even by the eradication of Al Qaeda itself. They will continue their struggle, refusing to renounce violence or accept more democratic, less corrupt regimes as a substitute for the caliphate.
Just because we do not always know the identities of their leaders or see a named and hierarchical organization does not mean that Islamist extremists are not working hard to seize the fruits of the Arab Spring. The challenge for the United States is not merely to take advantage of the intelligence gained in the Pakistan raid to further erode Al Qaeda, but to assist moderate Muslims in creating a counterweight to violent extremism, with both an appealingly articulated ideology and an effective organizational structure.
The government that was overthrown in Egypt was corrupt and feckless, as are the regimes now under siege in Libya, Syria and Yemen, but the groups poised to take advantage of the upheaval in those countries include many who share Bin Laden's vision for repressive religious rule. Similar situations exist in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Moderate, tolerant and even some secular groups exist, but they often do not have a comprehensive alternative vision, know how to communicate it or have the organizational skills to promote it. American and European experts can assist them in building politically viable organizations, but to succeed these new groups must be homegrown and tap into the Arab and Islamic traditions that speak to many Muslim youth.
Moreover, without investment to create jobs, new governments in these countries will fail under the weight of youth unemployment. Unless corruption is replaced with efficiency, investment will either not materialize or be wasted.
Without alternative movements with vision, appeal, and the ability to deliver change, existing organized extremist groups will fill the void. And despite his death, Bin Laden's goal may yet be achieved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (75%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); HOSNI MUBARAK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



68 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Banks Sued In Thornburg Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WILMINGTON, Del. (Reuters) -- The bankruptcy trustee for Thornburg Mortgage has sued Goldman Sachs, Barclays and other big banks for a combined $2.2 billion, blaming them for its bankruptcy. 
The trustee filed four separate lawsuits, the most extensive of which blames a ''collusive scheme'' by units of JPMorgan Chase & Company, Citigroup, the Royal Bank of Scotland, Credit Suisse and UBS for driving the company into bankruptcy.
The trustee, Joel Sher, accused the five banks of acting together to use a series of unjustified margin calls to extend their control over Thornburg, which was once a leading provider of ''jumbo'' home loans.
The lawsuit seeks to recover $2 billon for fraudulent conveyances and transfers by the banks, which had financed Thornburg's mortgage-backed securities.
The trustee said the banks eventually drove Thornburg into Chapter 11 in May 2009. It sought protection from creditors with $36.5 billion in assets, making it one of the largest bankruptcies during the financial crisis.
Citigroup said the lawsuit was without merit. Credit Suisse and UBS declined to comment. JPMorgan and RBS did not immediately return a call for comment.
Mr. Sher was appointed to run Thornburg after the company's executives were accused of using Thornburg's staff and offices, without creditors' approval, to start a new company.
The trustee also sued Barclays, claiming it improperly seized mortgage bonds from Thornburg in 2007 by undervaluing the securities in a series of margin calls. The trustee is seeking at least $94 million.
Barclays declined to comment.
Mr. Sher sued Goldman Sachs, seeking at least $71 million and accusing the bank of scheming to seize hundreds of millions of dollars of investment-grade mortgage bonds that Thornburg had pledged as collateral.
Goldman Sachs declined to comment.
The final lawsuit claims Countrywide Home Loans, which was acquired by Bank of America, breached representations and warranties on the loans it sold to a unit of Thornburg.
That lawsuit was also brought on behalf of a group of investors known as the Zuni Investors, who were represented by David Grais of Grais & Ellsworth.
Mr. Grais has brought numerous ''putback'' lawsuits that seek to have originators like Countrywide repurchase mortgages that fell short of promised standards.
Bank of America did not immediately return a call for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); BONDS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BARCLAYS PLC (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (91%); CS (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); RBS (NYSE) (83%); RBS (LSE) (83%); RBS (AMS) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (74%) DELAWARE, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



69 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: The Clout of Air Alliances

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
Global airline alliances used to be little more than marketing agreements among carriers, and travelers had only a dim awareness of them.
But over the past decade, three alliances -- Star Alliance, Oneworld and SkyTeam -- have carved up the globe into three teams of at least a dozen airlines each. These alliances offer passengers easier access to the world, but their growing power also positions them to dominate unaffiliated rivals and to control prices.
For passengers, alliances offer simpler ticketing and smoother connections on intercontinental trips, as well as the chance to earn and redeem frequent-flier miles on other member carriers. That means a passenger flying on Lufthansa can choose to earn United miles for the trip, then redeem them on US Airways -- all Star Alliance members. 
The main incentive for carriers to partner up is to bolster their international traffic, an increasingly important source of revenue.
''The U.S. market is a mature market -- we've seen the shakeout, we've had consolidation,'' said Henry Harteveldt, a travel analyst with Forrester Research. ''To continue to grow, airlines have to expand abroad, but it's impractical and, in some cases, impossible for carriers to do much expansion on their own. That's why we've seen the alliances become so popular.''
International treaties dictate where carriers are allowed to operate in another country, and laws in the United States prohibit foreign ownership of a majority stake in an airline, so global alliances are also a way of expanding abroad without a buyout or a merger.
But now that the dominant carriers in each alliance have been granted antitrust immunity by the United States government and the European Union, they are free to behave as if there had been a merger -- coordinating schedules and fares and sharing revenue on trans-Atlantic routes. The alliances also help the airlines save money as members shift operations to a single terminal and move toward more joint lounges and services.
''The one-roof strategy we have in airports helps save costs,'' said Marie-Joseph Male, SkyTeam's managing director. ''In London, we are all in Terminal 4. If we were separated, we would have had 60 check-in counters, which we were able to reduce to 48.''
Mr. Male pointed to the liberalization of international aviation treaties, the globalization of the economy and advances in technology as the three main factors contributing to the growing strength of airline alliances. SkyTeam currently has 13 members, including Delta, Air France and KLM, and plans to have 19 by the end of 2012 -- focusing on increasing its presence in China.
Star Alliance is the largest of the three with 27 members, including United, Continental, US Airways and Lufthansa. It is generally considered by frequent fliers to be the best alliance for booking awards, including upgrades, though cashing in awards within any alliance can still be frustrating for travelers because of limited seat availability and online ticketing systems that are not fully linked by member airlines.
Travelers with elite status on one airline can also take advantage of another benefit of the alliances -- reciprocal recognition of that status by other members, which means priority check-in, boarding and baggage handling, and access to partners' airport lounges.
Michael Blunt, a spokesman for the Oneworld alliance, said it focused on serving frequent business travelers with these types of perks, opting for quality over quantity with its dozen member airlines, including American, British Airways, Cathay Pacific and Qantas.
As part of that strategy, Oneworld is opening joint transfer centers at 10 hub airports worldwide, to help passengers troubleshoot problems like a missed connection or a delay that causes a tight connection time.
''Someone will meet you at the aircraft and they will tell you they've rebooked you onto another flight,'' Mr. Blunt said. ''Or they will take you and your hand baggage and rush you through the airport.''
But for all the talk of the benefits that alliances offer travelers, there is a continuing debate about the downside of this trend: too much market concentration, leading to higher fares. That is particularly a concern across the Atlantic, where fares have risen disproportionately as competition has shrunk.
''Something changed in the North Atlantic that allowed prices to rise three times faster than they did in any other market,'' said Hubert Horan, an aviation consultant who has opposed alliance antitrust immunity. ''That was due to the extreme consolidation of the industry. There is no other factor that could explain it.''
Mr. Horan helped develop the alliance between Northwest and KLM more than 20 years ago, but said he believed that the original benefit of alliances -- making it easier to fly between secondary cities in the United States and Europe -- was long ago achieved.
''The need to serve St. Louis to Stuttgart was filled by 1999,'' Mr. Horan said. ''All of the alliance activity since then has been in places where it created no value and the only purpose was to eliminate competition.''
Critics also worry that there is little opportunity for low-cost carriers to compete on trans-Atlantic routes (unlike domestic price competition from airlines like Southwest) and that the alliances will ultimately crush independent carriers like Virgin Atlantic.
In March, Virgin Atlantic announced a partnership with JetBlue, enabling customers to book trans-Atlantic tickets that include travel on both carriers. JetBlue has similar deals with Emirates, Lufthansa, El Al and other airlines, opting not to join a single alliance so it can pursue strategic partnerships instead.
Mr. Harteveldt said this approach made sense for some carriers, but that it remained to be seen what effect alliances would have on the competitive landscape as the market evolved.
''Certainly, alliances reduce competition,'' he said. ''There's no question that it makes life more difficult for airlines that either choose not to be part of an alliance or aren't asked.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The American Airlines, British Airways and Iberia joint Premium lounge at Miami International Airport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANA SINN FROM AMERICAN AIRLINES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); MERGERS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (69%); IMMUNITY (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (63%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); LHA (FRA) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



70 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: At Westin Hotels, Wellness by the Numbers

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
TRAVELERS are concerned about numbers like $4, as in the price of a gallon of gasoline in many parts of the country. A leading lodging chain is hoping to get them to care instead about numbers like 8, 12, 15, 16, 24 and 37.
The numbers are meant to represent myriad reasons for staying at properties that are part of the Westin Hotels and Resorts chain owned by Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide. Each number stands for what a new campaign for Westin calls an ''element of well-being.'' 
For instance, No. 37 is the personal instruction at golf resorts, No. 15 is the relaxing Westin Weekend package, No. 12 is the chain's Heavenly bed and No. 16 is the SuperFoodsRx menu.
The campaign, which gets under way this week, is sort of the opposite of a campaign from decades ago for the Excedrin line of pain reliever, which identified types of headaches by the numbers like No. 44, ''Driving home,'' or No. 24, ''What's for dinner?''
The theme of the Westin campaign is ''For a better you,'' which, come to think of it, might have worked for Excedrin, too. The effort is the first major brand campaign for Westin from the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, which until now has worked on tactical efforts like ads to promote the Westin virtual storefront on Amazon.com.
The Westin campaign, with a budget estimated at $30 million, includes print, digital and outdoor ads, but no television commercials. A social media initiative is planned, too.
The campaign is among several being brought out by hotel, motel and resort chains before the start of the important summer travel season. Business had recently been improving for the lodging industry, after the significant setbacks suffered during the recession. But the sudden sharp rise in gasoline prices threatens to cloud the sunnier outlook.
''The economy has been a bit of a challenge'' until mid-2010, when ''we started seeing our occupancy rates rise,'' said Brian Povinelli, global brand leader for Westin at Starwood in White Plains. ''We're almost back to 2007 levels.''
Westin is ''absolutely seeing a positive trajectory,'' he added, in measures like revenue per occupied room, which rose 9 percent in the first quarter compared with the same period last year.
Although gas prices play a role in how Westin fares, Mr. Povinelli said, as do world events, the chain has ''seen a nice growth in our business.''
To keep the rebound on course, Westin wants to resume advertising its brand, but in a way that would stand out from the typical pitches for higher-priced hotels and resorts that are replete with look-alike images of fancy rooms, grinning employees and satisfied guests.
''We challenged B.B.H. to get off the beaten path, not show the typical property shots,'' Mr. Povinelli said, so that ''as people get out and travel more, we can help them understand the positioning of the brand and the brand promise, which is that we help our guests feel better when they leave than when they arrived.''
Such a ''general wellness'' approach, as Mr. Povinelli described it, has been part of Westin ads since the introduction of the Heavenly bed, which led to ''a long list of Heavenly items,'' he said, that include Heavenly bathrooms, Heavenly cribs, Heavenly dog beds and, most recently, Heavenly spas in about 25 of the 178 Westins around the world.
The ads use images taken by a French fashion photographer, Gregoire Alexandre, that suggest the Westin elements of well-being rather than depicting them directly. For instance, the SuperFoodsRx menu is illustrated with a photo of stacks of plates, and the Heavenly bed is illustrated with a photo of a woman asleep on a batch of balloons.
''There is a lot of volatility in consumer confidence right now,'' acknowledged Greg Andersen, chief executive of Bartle Bogle Hegarty New York, but Westin executives ''are pretty bullish on their outlook going forward.''
''When the economy was sagging, it was important to drive occupancy'' through tactical ads that offered promotions, Mr. Andersen said. ''With the economy improving, the game moving forward is improving the profitability of guests' stays.''
''What we've tried to do with this campaign is create more of a sense of the Westin experience,'' he added, ''instead of providing a list of the Westin amenities.''
The campaign is ''aimed at more of a psychographic'' group than a demographic group, Mr. Andersen said, identifying the audience as ''affluent individuals and couples, families, at different stages of their lives but sharing a common attitudinal thread, that personal well-being is important to them.''
''It's a target we call the balance-seekers,'' he added. ''They are already leading healthy life styles and are looking for a place to stay where they can continue that, whether they're a family spending a week at a nice resort or a business traveler in town for 24 hours.''
The print ads are to run in American and Canadian magazines and newspapers that include Conde Nast Traveler, Maclean's, The New York Times, and The Wall Street Journal. The online ads are to appear on Web sites like concierge.com, epicurious.com, nytimes.com, oprah.com and self.com.
Two media agencies that are part of the Publicis Groupe are also working on the campaign: MediaVest, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group, and Razorfish.
Starwood spent $28.38 million to advertise Westin in major media last year, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, just a tad shy of the $28.39 million spent in 2007. Ad spending totaled $23.45 million in 2008 and $22.75 million in 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In print ads in the new campaign for Westin, resort locations offering plenty of sunshine is reason No. 8 to stay there. Reason No. 37 is personal golf instruction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTEL CHAINS (92%); RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BRANDING (87%); LODGING (79%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (79%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM (78%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); RETAILERS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); GOLF (70%); BUDGETS (69%); ANALGESICS (68%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (67%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); SOCIAL MEDIA (50%)

COMPANY: STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (72%); WESTIN HOTELS & RESORTS LP (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%)

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (72%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



71 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Rejecting Wall Street, Graduates Turn to Entrepreneurship

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Kimball Thomas and Davis Smith, co-founders of the e-commerce site Baby.com.br, had just six hours in Brazil to pitch to prospective investors and recruit a promising executive for the chief operating officer role.
With little time left after a four-hour meeting with Monashees Capital, the prospective candidate, In Hsieh, agreed to drive the entrepreneurs back to the airport for his interview, braving the city's notoriously congested roads as he answered their questions.
Mr. Thomas and Mr. Smith, who are cousins, made their evening flight, and Mr. Smith got home in time for his final exam at business school. 
''Between my redeye flights, I didn't have time to study,'' Mr. Smith said. ''But I realized, the whole reason I went back to school was to build a business like this.''
Mr. Smith, who attends the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Thomas, of Harvard Business School, are part of a growing number of business school students rejecting traditional postgraduate paths like investment banking, hedge funds and consulting. It's a trend that is accelerating in the wake of the financial crisis as Wall Street loses its luster and Silicon Valley shines with a new crop of multibillion-dollar start-ups.
At Harvard, some of Mr. Thomas's classmates are applying their entrepreneurial ambitions to technology ventures. Kevin Nazemi, a former Microsoft product manager, started Done, a personal productivity service, last year. Daniel Gulati, a student who helped Mr. Thomas draft his early investor presentations, founded the retail site Fashionstake.com with a fellow classmate, Vivian Weng. Graduates from the class of 2010 started 30 to 40 businesses last year, a 50 percent increase from the previous year, said William A. Sahlman, a professor of entrepreneurship at Harvard Business School.
''The level of entrepreneurship activity here, and I presume at other schools, is up dramatically over the last two years,'' said Dr. Sahlman.
Baby.com.br is the second start-up for Mr. Thomas, 31, and Mr. Smith, 32. In 2004, the students started PoolTables.com, with about $20,000 scraped together from friends and family. The venture - which taught them the basics, like how to coordinate with vendors in China and how to run an e-commerce site - was profitable in its first year.
Now, the two are tackling a broader, if more complicated market.
Mr. Thomas and Mr. Smith got the idea for Baby.com.br after Mr. Thomas tried to find diapers for his son, Jack, during a family trip to Rio de Janeiro last year. He had to visit three stores to find a package of Pampers in the right size. Struck by the lack of high-quality baby care goods, Mr. Thomas saw an opportunity in Brazil's fast-growing market, where more than three million babies are born every year, according to data from the World Bank.
The start-up follows a similar strategy to Quidsi, the owner of Diapers.com. That site, also co-founded by a Wharton graduate, has attracted more than a million parents in the United States with free shipping on goods for their children. Earlier this year, the e-commerce giant Amazon.com snapped up Quidsi for $545 million.
''We actually see a lot more potential for e-commerce in Brazil,'' said Mr. Thomas, the start-up's co-chief executive. ''E-commerce there is so much more nascent.''
Even so, they face more challenges than with their previous site, including a different regulatory and tax regime than in the United States. In Brazil, the payment processing system is also more fragmented. The plan is to start the service in July, but Mr. Thomas says they may have to push it back.
Investors, inside the school and out, have taken notice. In late April, Baby.com.br was named one of the top three winners for the Harvard's annual Business Plan Contest, which came with a $25,000 cash prize. The award is on top of the $3 million that Mr. Thomas and Mr. Smith raised in February. That fund-raising effort, which valued the company at $5.6 million, included several well-known venture capitalists, including Monashees Capital and Ron Conway of SV Angel, who has stakes in Twitter and Zynga.
''Harvard carries some distinction, you can catch some people's eyes,'' said Mr. Thomas, referring to prospective investors. ''On the margin, if they can, they get back to you.''
The contest is part of a broader effort by the school to foster innovation. Last year, budding entrepreneurs at Harvard formed the Startup Tribe, a student group. The organization, which has more than 150 members, persuaded Harvard to start the Minimum Viable Product Fund, a $50,000 fund for new start-ups. The program distributes awards of roughly $5,000 apiece to promising teams, including the nine winners announced in March.
''We're a scrappy, adaptive community'' said Andrew Rosenthal, a member of the Startup Tribe. The group has been gaining traction, because of a confluence of factors. ''We have a new dean, an active network of recent graduates, who are providing mentorship, and there's a strong demand for a student-run community,'' he said.
The school is also planning to open in the fall the Harvard Innovation Lab, a student center for start-ups, where founders can work with peers and Harvard's entrepreneurs-in-residence.
Of course, business school can also be a significant hurdle for passionate founders. Mr. Thomas admits that his grades probably suffered last semester, as he struggled to juggle his classes with investor and client meetings in Brazil, San Francisco and New York.
For the moment, he's catching his breath. Mr. Thomas, who is graduating this month, finished school on Friday.
''I'm quite relieved that classes are over,'' he said. ''I have a trip to Brazil next week.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kimball Thomas, a Harvard Business School student, founded Baby.com.br with Davis Smith. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (83%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); RETAILERS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



72 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Ownership Of TV Sets Falls in U.S.

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
For the first time in 20 years, the number of homes in the United States with television sets has dropped.
The Nielsen Company, which takes TV set ownership into account when it produces ratings, will tell television networks and advertisers on Tuesday that 96.7 percent of American households now own sets, down from 98.9 percent previously.
There are two reasons for the decline, according to Nielsen. One is poverty: some low-income households no longer own TV sets, most likely because they cannot afford new digital sets and antennas. 
The other is technological wizardry: young people who have grown up with laptops in their hands instead of remote controls are opting not to buy TV sets when they graduate from college or enter the work force, at least not at first. Instead, they are subsisting on a diet of television shows and movies from the Internet.
That second reason is prompting Nielsen to think about a redefinition of the term ''television household'' to include Internet video viewers.
''We've been having conversations with clients,'' said Pat McDonough, the senior vice president for insights and analysis at Nielsen. ''That would be a big change for this industry, and we'd be doing it in consultation with clients if we do it.''
Nielsen's household figures suggest that while the TV set is still firmly at the center of the average American's media life, a small minority of Americans are finding ways to live without it. The ''persistently rocky economy'' is ''the driving factor,'' the company says in the report to be released Tuesday.
Similarly, the economy was the reason cited by Nielsen when the percentage of homes with sets declined in 1992. That decline, the company's report says, ''also followed a prolonged recession and was reversed during the economic upswing of the mid-1990s.'' If the current decline persists, it will have profound implications for the networks, studios and distributors that are wedded, at least in part, to the current television ecosystem.
Nielsen's estimates incorporate the results of the 2010 census as well as the behavior of the approximately 50,000 Americans in the national sample that the company relies upon to make ratings projections. ''One thing we are seeing in the Nielsen sample are fewer people owning TVs,'' Ms. McDonough said. It was first evident in the sample in late 2008, she said, during the worst of the financial crisis and the recession.
Nielsen's research into these newly TV-less households indicates that they generally have incomes under $20,000. ''They are people at the bottom of the economic spectrum for whom, if the TV breaks, if the antenna blows off the roof, they have to think long and hard about what to do,'' Ms. McDonough said. Most of these households do not have Internet access either. Many live in rural areas.
The transition to digital broadcasting from analog in 2009 aggravated the hardship for some of these households. Some could not afford to upgrade, Nielsen surmised, though the government tried to provide subsidies in those situations.
And some in rural areas could not receive digital signals as effectively as analog signals for technical reasons. In those cases, ''if you're an affluent household -- or most middle-class households -- you're going to get a satellite dish. If you're a struggling household, likely you're not going to be able to afford that option,'' Ms. McDonough said.
Then there are the tech-savvy Americans who once lived in a household with a television, but no longer do. These are either cord-cutters -- a term that refers to people who stop paying for cable television -- or people who never signed on for cable. Ms. McDonough suggested that these were younger Americans who were moving into new residences and deciding not to buy a TV for themselves, especially if they ''don't have the financial means to get one immediately.''
Nielsen has not yet assessed what proportion of the decline can be attributed to this behavior. But the decline in the percentage of homes with sets is sure to kick off another round of speculation about cord-cutting.
Sensitive to its clients' concerns, Nielsen explains the trend this way in the report: ''While Nielsen data demonstrates that consumers are viewing more video content across all platforms -- rather than replacing one medium with another -- a small subset of younger, urban consumers seem to be going without paid TV subscriptions for the time being. The long-term effects of this are still unclear, as it is undetermined if this is also an economic issue that will see these individuals entering the TV marketplace once they have the means, or the beginning of a larger shift to online viewing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Analog televisions, now obsolete, wrapped and waiting to be recycled in Florida. (B1)
 Discarded analog television sets in Florida. Analog was rendered obsolete in the switch to digital broadcasting in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



73 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUT NOBODY PAYS THAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Has High Business Tax Rates, Technically

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
The United States may soon wind up with a distinction that makes business leaders cringe -- the highest corporate tax rate in the world.
Topping out at 35 percent, America's official corporate income tax rate trails that of only Japan, at 39.5 percent, which has said it plans to lower its rate. It is nearly triple Ireland's and 10 percentage points higher than in Denmark, Austria or China. To help companies here stay competitive, many executives say, Congress should lower it.
But by taking advantage of myriad breaks and loopholes that other countries generally do not offer, United States corporations pay only slightly more on average than their counterparts in other industrial countries. And some American corporations use aggressive strategies to pay less -- often far less -- than their competitors abroad and at home. A Government Accountability Office study released in 2008 found that 55 percent of United States companies paid no federal income taxes during at least one year in a seven-year period it studied. 
The paradox of the United States tax code -- high rates with a bounty of subsidies, shelters and special breaks -- has made American multinationals ''world leaders in tax avoidance,'' according to Edward D. Kleinbard, a professor at the University of Southern California who was head of the Congressional joint committee on taxes. This has profound implications for businesses, the economy and the federal budget.
As Congress wrestles with how to get the deficit under control, one big point of contention is whether spending cuts will need to be accompanied by an increase in taxes on some individuals or businesses. Facing a full-court press from business leaders who say the tax system is outdated and onerous, President Obama, Congress and business leaders have been warily negotiating various proposals, though mostly about whether to cut the top corporate rate and to tighten tax laws and not about whether to increase revenue.
The United States is virtually alone in trying to tax its multinational corporations on their foreign earnings, but it allows companies to avoid those taxes indefinitely by keeping profits overseas. That encourages companies to use accounting maneuvers to shift profits to low-tax countries and to invest profits offshore, says David S. Miller, a partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in New York.
Honeywell International, the New Jersey company that makes things as diverse as aerospace components and First Alert smoke detectors, reported in regulatory filings that in the last five years, it paid cash income taxes in the United States and abroad equal to 15 percent of its profits. On Friday, a Honeywell spokeswoman pointed out that the company had since made a large pension contribution, which effectively cut its profits and made its tax rate closer to 22 percent.
A major domestic competitor, United Technologies, reported an average of 24 percent over that time. A German rival, Siemens, reported 29 percent of its total profit.
In addition to being complex and uneven, the United States corporate tax code is inefficient and has become a diminishing source of revenue. Corporate taxes accounted for about 9 percent of all federal revenue in 2010. At $191 billion, they were equal to 1.3 percent of the nation's gross domestic product. Most industrial countries collect more from companies, about 2.5 percent of output. Only a portion of that disparity can be explained by the many types of businesses in the United States that elect to be taxed at an individual rate.
''Whether the test is fairness or efficiency, the U.S. system gets really low marks,'' said Michelle Hanlon, an M.I.T. professor who says the country needs to completely revamp the way it taxes corporations.
Not all American companies are willing or able to reduce their taxes drastically. Taxes vary more by industry here than abroad, according to a study released in February by Kevin S. Markle of Dartmouth and Douglas A. Shackelford of the University of North Carolina. At the high end, American retailers paid 31 percent in total income taxes, construction 30 percent and manufacturers 26 percent. Financial services companies paid an average of 20 percent, real estate 19 percent and mining 6 percent.
(Measuring taxes paid by companies is imprecise because tax filings remain private. In many cases, the estimates reported in a company's financial filings with regulators overstate taxes paid in a year because they include deferred taxes. Nonetheless, academics, economists and elected officials use the estimates for comparative purposes.)
Because some companies are so effective at minimizing taxes, the average works out to far less than the official rate. United States companies pay about a quarter of their profits in federal income taxes, a few percentage points higher than the rate paid by companies in most other major industrial countries, according to a number of studies and tax experts.
Assorted proposals being discussed in Washington call for the rate to be lowered officially to about 25 percent and some tax breaks to be eliminated so that revenue remains unchanged.
But some prominent business leaders, including the chief executive of Procter & Gamble, are pushing for the rate to be reduced without reining in tax shelters. That would make the United States virtually the only country to change corporate taxes in recent years in a way that ended up adding to its deficit.
''One fact we know is that in all of the countries that have lowered their corporate rates in recent years, they still collected the same amount in revenues or more,'' said Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, an international tax lawyer who teaches at the University of Michigan. ''This means that they were broadening the base of the profits that corporations were actually taxed on.''
Procter & Gamble, whose products include Tide detergent and Crest toothpaste, paid an average of 24 percent of its profits in worldwide income taxes over the last three years, according to regulatory filings. That is nearly the same rate reported by two big European rivals, Unilever and Henkel.
Yet Robert A. McDonald, P.& G.'s top executive, testified before a Congressional committee this year about the need to cut the United States tax rate without ending tax breaks and shelters. ''We need a tax system that addresses today's hypercompetitive global marketplace,'' Mr. McDonald said, arguing that the playing field was tilted away from American businesses.
Many liberal groups counter that ending the breaks, subsidies and shelters in the corporate tax code could provide enough money to lower the rate several percentage points and still increase revenue.
Furthermore, some business owners complain that the American system unfairly rewards disingenuous bookkeeping rather than innovation. It forces companies to compete ''based not on product quality and services, but on accounting gymnastics,'' said Paul Egerman, former chairman and chief executive of eScription, a medical transcription service in Boston.
No one is certain how much creative accounting costs the federal government in lost revenue, but most estimates say it easily exceeds $50 billion a year. Targeted tax preferences, which Congress created to intentionally benefit specific companies or industries, cost an estimated $100 billion more a year.
Many tax analysts are skeptical that Congress, business leaders and the Obama administration will be able to reach a deal before the 2012 election.
''It's human nature that people are going to fight harder to preserve a benefit they already have than to get some new benefit,'' said Clint Stretch, a principal at Deloitte Tax and a former counsel to the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. ''The only way tax reform makes everyone happy is if everyone wins. And with the federal budget where it is today, that's not possible.''
But Nobody Pays That: Articles in this series are examining efforts by businesses to lower their taxes, and the debate over how to improve the tax system.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Honeywell International in Minnesota. In the last five years, the company said, about 22 percent of its profit went to income taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC MILLER/REUTERS)
Edward D. Kleinbard, third from left, former head of the Congressional joint committee on taxes, said American multinational corporations had become ''world leaders in tax avoidance.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B9) CHARTS: TOTAL U.S. CORPORATE TAXES AS A SHARE OF G.D.P. (Source: O.M.B.) (A1)
A Lighter Burden: Advocates for cutting the corporate tax rate in the United States usually cite the statutory limit, but the average effective tax rate is much lower. As a share of gross domestic product, companies pay less in the United States than elsewhere. (Source: Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
 PricewaterhouseCoopers) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CORPORATE TAX (92%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); SMOKE DETECTORS (50%)

COMPANY: CADWALADER WICKERSHAM & TAFT LLP (80%); SIEMENS AG (54%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (54%); SIE (LSE) (54%); SIE (FRA) (54%); SIE (BIT) (54%); SI (NYSE) (54%); HON (NYSE) (51%); HON (LSE) (51%); UTX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (80%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (80%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (51%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



74 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Manufacturing Growth Slowed in April

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The rate of growth in the American manufacturing sector slowed in April for a second consecutive month, but input prices were at their highest in nearly three years, an industry report released on Monday said. 
A second report, by the Commerce Department, showed that construction spending rose in March.
In the manufacturing sector, the Institute for Supply Management said its index of national factory activity fell to 60.4 points in April, from 61.2 in March. The figure topped economists' forecasts of 60 points.
A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector.
The figure was in line with previous regional reports that showed a slowdown in manufacturing in April. The trade group's broader national report has been expanding since August 2009 and peaked in February 2011.
The index for prices paid rose to 85.5, from 85, the highest since July 2008.
In the other report, the construction sector found momentum as the first quarter ended, with spending on projects posting the largest gain in 11 months, a government report said Monday.
The Commerce Department said construction spending increased 1.4 percent in March to an annual rate of $768.9 billion, reflecting strong gains in private residential and nonresidential outlays. Economists polled by Reuters had expected construction spending to rise 0.4 percent in March.
Private construction spending in March rose 2.2 percent as investment in residential projects advanced 2.6 percent, to $229.1 billion.
Private nonresidential outlays increased 1.8 percent in March. Spending on public construction edged up 0.1 percent in March, with outlays on federal projects falling 0.3 percent.
However, total construction spending remained weak; it declined 7.8 percent in the first quarter from the period a year ago.
Spending on commercial structures dropped at an annual rate of 21.7 percent in the first quarter, the largest decline since the fourth quarter of 2009, a government report released last week indicated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Spending for private nonresidential construction, like this office building in Palo Alto, Calif., increased 1.8 percent in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Construction Spending: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (93%); CONSTRUCTION (93%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



75 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Backs Higher Tuition at Top SUNY Campuses

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said Monday that he would support allowing the flagship campuses of the State University of New York to charge higher tuition than the rest of the system, a stance that could pit him against fellow Democrats who worry that lower-income students could be priced out of the top schools. 
The governor said he would support a State University proposal to set a five-year schedule of tuition increases at all SUNY undergraduate campuses, and would allow the four research campuses -- at Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo and Stony Brook -- to propose their own, higher undergraduate tuition increases, subject to legislative approval.
''There is no cookie cutter,'' Mr. Cuomo said at a news conference. ''Some may decide that they need to increase tuition; some may decide they don't. We're trying to flip the model.'' Under the new model, he said, ''we're not going to tell you what to do.''
Currently, all of SUNY's undergraduate campuses charge the same tuition for state residents, $4,970, which is significantly lower than that charged by many other state universities.
The governor's announcement came as he unveiled one of his administration's first major economic development programs, $140 million in grants for the SUNY research campuses for expansion, part of which, he said, would probably be paid for by the higher tuitions.
By throwing his weight behind the tuition proposals, Mr. Cuomo is thrusting himself into one of Albany's longest-running and most contentious policy disputes. For years, SUNY's research universities have sought to set their own tuitions and to vary tuition by campus. Currently, the systemwide tuition rate is set by the Legislature. Mr. Cuomo's predecessor, Gov. David A. Paterson, supported a ''differential tuition'' plan last year, but it failed to win legislative approval.
The announcement by Mr. Cuomo drew skepticism from Democrats in the State Assembly, where lawmakers have suggested that allowing State University campuses to set their own, different tuition rates would make the system less accessible to low-income New Yorkers.
''Differential tuition is a concern in our conference,'' said the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat. However, noting that Mr. Cuomo's proposal would still require legislative approval of tuition rates, Mr. Silver said, ''this clearly recognizes the oversight role of the Legislature, and the authority of the Legislature in matters of tuition.''
SUNY's last tuition increase came in 2009, when the Legislature approved a $620 increase.
Nancy L. Zimpher, the chancellor of the 64-campus SUNY system, has argued that periods of flat tuition, followed by sharp increases, are unfair to students, who have no way to predict the cost of their educations. Instead, Dr. Zimpher has advocated for ''modest annual increases'' to tuition rates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, left, and the chancellor of the state university system, Nancy L. Zimpher, at the lectern, on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%); DAVID PATERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



76 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Gearing Up for Obama in '12, Republicans Pause to Praise

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama drew praise from unlikely quarters on Monday for pursuing a risky and clandestine mission to kill Osama bin Laden, a successful operation that interrupted the withering Republican criticism about his foreign policy, world view and his grasp of the office.
Former Vice President Dick Cheney declared, ''The administration clearly deserves credit for the success of the operation.'' New York's former mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said, ''I admire the courage of the president.'' And Donald J. Trump declared, ''I want to personally congratulate President Obama.'' 
As fleeting as it might prove to be, the positive tone stood in blunt contrast to the narrative Republicans have been working to build in the opening stages of the 2012 presidential campaign.
The argument that most potential Republican candidates have been making -- that Mr. Obama is an indecisive leader, incapable of handling rapidly evolving events around the world -- suddenly became more complicated. And the boost in stature for Mr. Obama, even if temporary, comes when a number of Republicans are deciding whether to commit themselves to the presidential race, and offered fresh evidence that he might be less vulnerable than his opponents thought.
The development came at a good time for Mr. Obama, who received the worst foreign policy rating of his presidency in a New York Times/CBS News poll last month, with 46 percent of respondents saying they disapproved of his handling of international affairs. But the implications for the president, who will visit the World Trade Center on Thursday, were impossible to predict.
The nation's unemployment rate remains relatively high, and the economic recovery has yet to gain traction. High gasoline prices are pinching consumer budgets and eroding confidence. Seventy percent of Americans in the Times/CBS poll last month said the country was on the wrong track, and the White House is heading into what could be a bitter fight with Republicans about spending and raising the debt limit.
But at a minimum, Mr. Obama has been dealt another high-profile opportunity to try to position himself above the bitter partisan fray and offer a voice of reasoned compromise -- a theme consistent with his strategy over the past six months of shedding Republican efforts to cast him as a partisan liberal out of touch with the country's values.
''The world is safer; it is a better place because of the death of Osama bin Laden,'' Mr. Obama said Monday. ''Today, we are reminded that, as a nation, there's nothing we can't do when we put our shoulders to the wheel, when we work together, when we remember the sense of unity that defines us as Americans.''
The terrorist attacks that Bin Laden masterminded in New York and Washington a decade ago caused a significant shift in the nation's politics. It remained to be seen to what extent his killing -- dramatic as it was -- would reorder the political landscape.
The developments came at a big moment in the race for the Republican presidential nomination, with new prospective candidates like Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana facing pressure to jump in. Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former Utah governor who just returned from two years as ambassador to China to open a presidential run, found his efforts to trumpet his foreign policy experience immediately overshadowed.
''The president deserves and will receive credit for Bin Laden being killed on his watch,'' said Mike DuHaime, a Republican strategist who advised Mr. Giuliani's 2008 presidential bid. ''Like Sept. 11 and its aftermath, this is a moment that transcends politics.''
Karl Rove, the Republican strategist for President George W. Bush, said that party's crop of presidential aspirants would be wise to not be ''churlish.'' But he said he did not believe Bin Laden's death would be a deciding issue in the 2012 campaign.
''This will tend to cause a lot of people to say we got our job done,'' Mr. Rove said, noting a similar reaction when Saddam Hussein was captured in 2003. ''This is a moment that will require him to say, 'Here's what needs to be done to prevail in Afghanistan, in Iraq, in Yemen, in the broader war on terror.' ''
For Mr. Obama, the killing of Bin Laden represented a significant mark in his evolution as a national political leader, a career that has developed entirely in the decade since 9/11.
He was initially warned against seeking higher office because his name looked and sounded like Bin Laden's. His campaign assertions that he would unilaterally act against ''high-value terrorist targets'' in Pakistan were met with charges of naivete from rivals -- including Hillary Rodham Clinton -- for telegraphing such a move. The president's advisers declined to discuss the political ramifications of the Bin Laden killing. But they said that they were mindful of the lessons of 1992, when the approval ratings of President George Bush rocketed after the Gulf War.
Samuel K. Skinner, the White House chief of staff at the time, remembered how Mr. Bush emerged with approval ratings of around 90 percent only to lose to Bill Clinton the following year.
''Everybody was shocked at how quickly things had dropped, precipitously,'' Mr. Skinner said in an interview Monday. ''Because of economic issues -- and people's perspectives of where the economy was -- we were basically down south of 50 percent by October and November, and we were never able to recover.''
More recently, the bump in the polls that George W. Bush received after the capture of Saddam Hussein in 2003 evaporated within months.
In his first presidential campaign, Mr. Obama reaped considerable political benefit from his anti-Iraq war candidacy. In his second, he is hoping that he reaps the same level of benefit from his established role as a commander in chief who sent more troops to Afghanistan, authorized military strikes on Libya and signed off on the mission to kill Bin Laden.
John Ullyot, a former Marine intelligence officer who served as a Republican spokesman on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said the operation was ''a gutsy call because so much could have gone wrong.''
''The fact that Obama approved this mission instead of the safer option of bombing the compound was the right call militarily,'' Mr. Ullyot said, ''but also a real roll of the dice politically because of how quickly it could have unraveled.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke with families Monday after a ceremony for Medal of Honor recipients. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); DONALD TRUMP (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



77 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Rule Would Discourage States' Cutting Medicaid Payments to Providers

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a new effort to increase access to health care for poor people, the Obama administration is proposing a rule that would make it much more difficult for states to cut Medicaid payments to doctors and hospitals.
The rule could also put pressure on some states to increase Medicaid payment rates, which are typically lower than what Medicare and commercial insurance pay. 
Federal officials said Monday that the rule was needed to fulfill the promise of federal law, which says Medicaid recipients should have access to health care at least to the same extent as the general population.
''We have a responsibility to ensure sufficient beneficiary access to covered services,'' the administration said in issuing the proposal, to be published Friday in the Federal Register.
In many parts of the country, Medicaid recipients have difficulty finding doctors who will take them because Medicaid payment rates are so low.
Faced with huge financial problems, many states have frozen or reduced Medicaid payments to health care providers, and governors of both parties have proposed additional cuts this year. Medicaid recipients and health care providers have sued state officials to block such cuts, and one case, from California, is pending in the United States Supreme Court.
''Tight state budgets, coupled with increased demand for services during the recession, have led many states to propose reductions in Medicaid provider payments, without clear federal guidance on how to assure access,'' said Cindy Mann, the federal official in charge of Medicaid.
The new rule provides that guidance, but several state officials expressed concerns.
Dennis G. Smith, secretary of the Wisconsin Department of Health Services, described the proposal as ''a federal power grab.''
''The administration talks about flexibility and working with states, but continues to take actions such as this that are contrary to the partnership,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Putting states in jeopardy, by inventing a new meaning for a longstanding statutory provision, is another example of how distant and disconnected the administration is from what is happening across the country.''
Medicaid is financed jointly by the federal government and the states. Even before the recent recession, it was one of the fastest-growing items in most state budgets.
Douglas Porter, the Medicaid director in Washington State, said: ''The intent of the proposed regulation is reasonable. But the administration has gone overboard, creating a system of access review that is far too complex, elaborate and burdensome.''
Bruce D. Greenstein, secretary of the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals, said: ''The proposal leaves too much discretion with the federal government. It does not clearly enunciate the criteria to be used in measuring access to care.''
The new initiative comes as federal and state officials prepare for a huge expansion of Medicaid eligibility, scheduled to occur in 2014 under the new health care law.
About half of the 34 million uninsured people who are expected to gain coverage under the law will get it through Medicaid.
The proposed rule generally prevents states from cutting Medicaid payments to providers unless they can show that Medicaid recipients will have ''sufficient access'' to care after the cuts.
Regardless of whether they want to cut payment rates, states must continually monitor Medicaid recipients' access to care and develop plans to fix any problems they discover, the rule says.
Under the rule, states must measure and document access to ''each covered benefit'' at least once every five years. Data from such reviews could provide doctors, hospitals and nursing homes with powerful new tools to lobby for higher reimbursement.
States set Medicaid payment rates within broad federal guidelines. Federal law has long said that states must ''enlist enough providers'' to make sure Medicaid recipients have access to care equivalent to that of other people in the area.
Under presidents of both parties, federal officials have often disregarded this requirement, approving cuts in Medicaid payment rates that discouraged doctors from accepting Medicaid patients.
In an effort to rein in costs, states have increasingly turned to health maintenance organizations and other types of managed care. The new rule does not apply to managed care. But the Obama administration said it was ''considering future proposals'' to guarantee access to care for Medicaid recipients in such private health plans.
Under the proposal being issued this week, ''beneficiary access must be considered in setting and adjusting'' Medicaid payments to doctors, dentists, psychologists, hospitals, clinics, pharmacies, nursing homes and suppliers of medical equipment.
States must consult Medicaid recipients because, the rule says, their experience is ''the most important indicator of whether access is sufficient.'' Federal officials suggested that states survey Medicaid recipients to see how much difficulty they had in scheduling doctor's appointments.
In addition, the rule says, states should compare Medicaid payment rates with the amounts paid by Medicare or commercial insurers, with providers' costs or with their customary charges. Another important factor, it said, is the number and percentage of doctors who accept new Medicaid patients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (93%); HEALTH CARE (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); MEDICARE (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (56%); SUPREME COURTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



78 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: As Word Spread About Bin Laden's Death, It Became a TV Moment

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
So that's what success looks like.
Hard news has been so weighed down with political rancor, government stalemate, military losses and economic hardship that it's hard to remember the last time an American president presented viewers with an unmitigated triumph.
''They got the job done,'' is how President Obama put it on Monday, praising the commandos who killed Osama bin Laden in his high-end hideaway in Pakistan. Mr. Obama was presiding over a ceremony for Korean War Medal of Honor winners, which wouldn't ordinarily be covered in full by cable news networks, but this was different. Cameras wanted to linger on the commander in chief who announced that ''the world is a better place because of the death of Osama bin Laden.'' 
As word spread on Sunday night and networks went live for Mr. Obama's address to the nation, exhilarated anchors framed the raid on the Bin Laden compound as a ''historic breakthrough,'' a ''signature moment'' and as David Gregory said on NBC, something so momentous that people will always remember where they were when they first heard the news.
But the raid was also a thrilling, clear-cut and efficient operation, the kind of kill that most people know only from shows like ''The Unit'' and ''24'' or, in the case of younger audiences, combat video games like Socom 4.
For a long time and particularly since Sept. 11, 2001, viewers have become accustomed to watching disasters unfold as they do in apocalyptic movies like ''Independence Day.'' Even combat successes on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan are veined with tragic injury and death. Plenty of Americans still recall the day in April 1980 when a crushed President Jimmy Carter went on television to announce the failed attempt to rescue Iranian hostages, a Delta Force raid gone wrong that left eight servicemen dead.
This was a daring, high-stakes raid that worked, and didn't cost American lives.
Especially for those who lost loved ones on Sept. 11, the killing of Bin Laden was payback long denied for the worst terrorist attack on American soil. But in a gloomy, politically fraught landscape, the operation also provided a rare burst of communal good feeling that some celebrated with flash-mob demonstrations at ground zero, the White House and Times Square, among other places. It turns out that Twitter and Facebook messages weren't enough -- quite a few people wanted to be with other celebrants and to feel good news full-on, the way Egyptians celebrated Hosni Mubarak's fall or the way Britons turned out to fete the royal wedding couple.
The crowds of Americans waving flags and singing the national anthem looked almost retro, like clips of V-E Day in 1945. Kids chanting ''U.S.A., U.S.A.'' on streets and college campuses, on the other hand, looked more like fans celebrating an Olympic gold medal.
The operation itself looked high-tech on television, where networks recreated the raid with computer animation, colorful graphics and satellite maps. The Pentagon didn't release photographs right away, so the only grisly images were a few brief glimpses inside the compound on ABC News. The camera pans ransacked rooms, unmade beds, children's toys and pools of blood on the floor, but no bodies, violence or gunfire.
And even that was different from the capture in 2003 of Saddam Hussein, who was filmed being dragged out of a hole in the ground. The fallen tyrant was even shown submitting passively, his hair tangled and matted, as a doctor in surgical gloves checked him for lice. He was a piteous, pathetic spectacle in defeat; his execution by hanging in 2006, still on YouTube, was just as bizarre and disturbing.
Hussein was a hated foe, but he wasn't public enemy No. 1, the mastermind behind Sept. 11.
''Americans are united again,'' Carol Costello said on CNN on Monday. ''Osama bin Laden's death brought us together in a way we haven't experienced since the days of 9/11.''
There was rapture on Fox News about Bin Laden's death, but the praise for Mr. Obama was a little more grudging. The Fox News contributor Karl Rove, a former adviser to President George W. Bush, maintained that credit should go to Mr. Obama's predecessor, who put a premium on interrogation methods that may have provided bits of intelligence critical to Sunday's operation. ''The tools that President Bush put into place,'' Mr. Rove said, ''obviously served his successor well.'' (In other words, it's Obama's economy, and it's Obama's war, but this is Bush's raid.)
And for once, not much was heard from Donald Trump. That might be because word of an urgent White House announcement drove NBC to pre-empt the ending of Mr. Trump's reality show ''Celebrity Apprentice'' just minutes before his ''You're fired'' climax. It is not often that real life trumps Mr. Trump's reality. Some of the president's aides would consider that collateral justice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A view shown on ABC of the ransacked compound where Osama bin Laden and his retinue were living. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABC NEWS, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); KOREAN WAR (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%); STREET ART (60%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



79 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Extra Tax Revenue To Delay Debt Crisis

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A greater-than-expected increase in tax revenue has extended by about a month, until early August, the federal government's ability to pay its bills without an increase in the debt ceiling, the Treasury Department said Monday.
The new estimate creates a significant grace period for Congress to consider an increase in the maximum amount that the government can borrow, a step that House Republicans say they will not take without an agreement to curb spending. 
Federal borrowing is still likely to hit the legal limit on May 16, the Treasury said, so this week it will begin to take emergency steps to buy additional time under the cap. Those steps, plus the increase in tax receipts, which have reduced the need for borrowing, will delay a crisis by about a month -- to August from July.
''While this updated estimate in theory gives Congress additional time to complete work on increasing the debt limit, I caution strongly against delaying action,'' the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, wrote Monday to lawmakers.
Mr. Geithner has warned repeatedly that failing to raise the ceiling would force the government to default on its debts and obligations. That, he wrote, ''would have a catastrophic economic impact that would be felt by every American.''
Many Republicans have publicly agreed that Congress must raise the ceiling, although they insist that the White House must first agree to some form of meaningful spending limits. A vocal minority of members, however, have said that they are reluctant to raise the limit, and that Mr. Geithner and others ringing alarm bells have overstated the possible consequences of leaving the limit in place.
The debates have become a standard feature of Washington politics in the last two decades, cropping up when federal borrowing nears the limit while power is divided between the two parties. In 2006 and 2007, it was Democrats who inveighed against Republican arguments that debt increases were necessary.
In the past, Congress has always resolved its differences in time to avoid a debt crisis.
Vice President Joe Biden plans to convene White House staff and Congressional leaders Thursday to pursue an agreement on the terms of an increase. There is a growing consensus among Democrats that some restrictions on spending are reasonable and necessary to secure an agreement with Republicans.
To clear as much time as possible for that political process, the Treasury said on Monday that it would take the first in a series of emergency steps authorized by law this Friday. It will suspend a program under which it borrows money from state and local governments to help those governments meet legal obligations to invest in tax-exempt bonds.
The issuance of the State and Local Government Treasury securities, known as ''slugs,'' are largely a convenience for the governments. A senior Treasury official said the program's suspension might not cost those governments any significant amount of money, but it would require them to find alternative investments.
The program has been suspended six times in the last two decades as the federal government bumped against the debt ceiling, most recently in 2007.
The Treasury said it would begin to take additional steps on May 16, including suspending programs under which the government borrows money from pension funds for federal employees and then pays interest to those funds. By law, the Treasury must make up for the lost interest payments once Congress raises the debt ceiling.
The ceiling is now set at $14.29 trillion. The government must constantly borrow more money because its commitments vastly exceed its revenue. The Treasury projected that the government would need to borrow $299 billion between April and June, and that it would hit the debt limit in early July.
It now projects that the government will need to borrow $142 billion during that period, thanks to the increase in tax revenue. That leaves enough room for the government to keep borrowing until August.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy Geithner, the Treasury secretary, renewed his warning to Congress against taking any delays on raising the debt ceiling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); POLITICS (69%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); JOE BIDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



80 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (NBC) THE BIGGEST LOSER The five remaining contestants are made over at the hands of the fashion guru Tim Gunn, who arrives via a horse-drawn pumpkin carriage for the Cinderella-like transformations. On the to-do list: help the players choose outfits to flatter their hard-won, slimmer physiques; bestow oodles of gifts; and comment on hairstyles created by Ken Paves, above, with the contestants Hannah Curlee, center, and Olivia Ward. Finally, the competitors are taken to a castle, where they are reunited with loved ones. Meanwhile, in the weekly challenge, they'll search 50 car-shaped sand castles to find the keys to two new cars.
8 P.M. (Fox) GLEE Sue (Jane Lynch) revives the school newspaper and publishes libelous articles. April (Kristin Chenoweth) returns to McKinley High and tries to persuade Mr. Schuester (Matthew Morrison) to run off with her. And Sam (Chord Overstreet) earns points from his classmates when details of his home life are exposed. 
8 P.M. (Cartoon Network) THE LOONEY TUNES SHOW Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck move in together in this newfangled setting of the classic cartoon.
8 P.M. (13) BLACK IN LATIN AMERICA Henry Louis Gates Jr., the Alphonse Fletcher University Professor at Harvard, heads to Brazil for Carnaval to learn how that nation is acknowledging its legacy as the largest slave economy. Above, women prepare for the event.
9 P.M. (NBC) THE VOICE The blind auditions continue on this competition series, with Christina Aguilera, Cee Lo Green, Blake Shelton and Adam Levine of Maroon 5 sitting in the rotating judges' chairs.
9 P.M. (13); 10 P.M. (49) FIGHTING FOR AL QAEDA Produced before Sunday night's announcement that Osama bin Laden had been killed by United States special forces, this ''Frontline'' edition follows the journalist Najibullah Quraishi deep into Afghanistan as he meets with militants and foreign fighters loyal to Bin Laden. Martin Smith discusses the future of Al Qaeda with Peter Bergen, a terror expert.
9 P.M. (ABC) DANCING WITH THE STARS After footage of highlights from Monday night's performances, one couple is eliminated. James Blunt will sing his hit ''I'll Be Your Man''; Nicki Minaj will perform ''Moment 4 Life.''
10 P.M. (History) HOW THE STATES GOT THEIR SHAPES Why do states look the way they do? This new series explains the panhandle of Oklahoma, the boot of Missouri, the crook in California and others. The host Brian Unger begins by discussing the role of water in determining borders. At 10, he examines the impact of transportation.
10 P.M. (Sundance) ALL ON THE LINE Joe Zee, the creative director for Elle magazine and the chief diagnostician of this series, tries to help Jedda-Kahn regain his initial success as the new kid on the fashion block. But how is Mr. Zee supposed to rescue someone who thinks he knows better than industry bigwigs like Georgina Chapman of Marchesa?
10 P.M. (Food Network) CHOPPED Ted Allen oversees this competition in which four chefs in each episode must turn everyday items into an extraordinary three-course meal. Season 7 begins with turkey legs in the appetizer category; beef and chocolate frosting for entrees; and bananas for dessert.
10 P.M. (Planet Green) THE FABULOUS BEEKMAN BOYS Josh Kilmer-Purcell's parents arrive at the farm for a weeklong visit, and almost immediately Mr. Kilmer-Purcell sweeps Mom away to Manhattan. He intentionally leaves his partner, Dr. Brent Ridge, behind with Dad -- the better for Dr. Ridge to experience some father-son bonding.
10 P.M. (CBS) THE GOOD WIFE The law firm Lockhart/Gardner defends a patient in a liver-transplant case against the firm's rival Patti Nyholm (Martha Plimpton). But things become really crazy when Patti is fired and asks Lockhart/Gardner to represent her. Meanwhile, Alicia (Julianna Margulies) deals with the aftermath of the one-night stand between Peter (Chris Noth) and Kalinda (Archie Panjabi).
10 P.M. (13) A FILM UNFINISHED In this ''Independent Lens'' presentation, Yael Hersonski examines a Nazi propaganda film, used for decades by historians to offer a glimpse of life inside the Warsaw Ghetto in 1942. It juxtaposed images of starvation and despair against scenes of wealthy Jewish residents enjoying ''the good life'': eating fine dinners, dancing in nightclubs and attending the theater -- all of it staged. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAE PATTON/NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); AL-QAEDA (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TERRORISM (85%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (71%); WRITERS (68%); LIBEL & SLANDER (68%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: BLAKE SHELTON (77%); ADAM LEVINE (76%); CHRISTINA AGUILERA (50%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); CEE LO GREEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%); LATIN AMERICA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



81 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Killing Adds to Debate About U.S. Strategy and Timetable in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER, THOM SHANKER and ALISSA J. RUBIN; Mark Landler and Thom Shanker reported from Washington, and Alissa J. Rubin from Kabul, Afghanistan.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The killing of Osama bin Laden deep in Pakistan is sure to fuel the debate over the Obama administration's strategy in Afghanistan, where 100,000 troops are still fighting a war to destroy Al Qaeda. And the raid, conducted without the cooperation or even advance knowledge of Pakistan, raised fresh doubts about the lengthy American effort to turn it into a trustworthy partner in the hunt for terrorists.
As President Obama approaches a critical period in deciding how many troops to pull out of Afghanistan -- and how fast -- the deadly raid on Al Qaeda's leader called into question many of the administration's basic assumptions about how to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a safe haven for Islamic terrorists. 
On Monday, administration officials insisted that their commitments to Afghanistan and Pakistan would be undiminished by the death of Bin Laden. But they said privately that the pressure would mount on Mr. Obama to withdraw troops more quickly.
John O. Brennan, Mr. Obama's chief counterterrorism adviser, said Pakistan would remain a critical partner in the fight against terrorism, regardless of what he conceded were questions about whether its government provided support to Bin Laden and disagreements about counterterrorism strategy. And he said the large NATO troop presence in Afghanistan was still necessary to prevent that country from again becoming a ''launching point'' for Al Qaeda.
But officials in the State Department and Pentagon, as well as key lawmakers, said Bin Laden's death was bound to alter the debate about a costly war soon to enter its second decade. Those questions will be even more pointed, on the eve of an election year and amid growing alarm about the federal budget deficit.
''Every question has to be on the table in terms of where this is going,'' said Senator John Kerry, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who will hold hearings on the policy this week. ''What this does is initiate a possibility for re-evaluating what kind of transition we need in Afghanistan.''
Pentagon officials said they were preparing for calls for a more rapid withdrawal from Afghanistan. Critics of the war are expected to trumpet the death of Bin Laden as such a crippling blow to Al Qaeda that the movement, while remaining dangerous, is no longer an existential threat to the United States. Even before Bin Laden's death, there was a camp within the administration and the Democratic Party -- as well some voices among Republicans -- calling for a rapid winding down of American involvement.
Pentagon officials acknowledged that NATO nations, many of whom already are reluctant to remain in Afghanistan, also may argue that Bin Laden's death allows them to withdraw more rapidly than planned.
''I hope people are going to feel, on a bipartisan basis, that when you move the ball this far it's crazy to walk off the field,'' one senior administration official said. Officials who favor retaining a large troop presence said that while this was a significant victory, the security gains in Afghanistan remained fragile.
When Mr. Obama ordered an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan in 2009 with a goal of disrupting, dismantling and defeating Al Qaeda, it included a broader counterinsurgency campaign to protect the population, rebuild the economy and shore up the fragile central government. This broader campaign, which goes far beyond a focused fight against Al Qaeda, is based on the goal of assuring that Afghanistan would never again become a safe haven for the terror organization.
The administration, officials said, was already moving away from this counterinsurgency strategy, toward one with more limited objectives for Afghanistan and a goal of political reconciliation with the Taliban, which once offered Al Qaeda sanctuary there. Drone strikes and nighttime raids, of the kind that killed Bin Laden, would figure even more prominently in such a strategy, officials said.
But reconciling with the Taliban will require an active role by Pakistan, which provides a haven for Taliban leaders. The strains between the United States and Pakistan could make that process more difficult. And Bin Laden's death near Islamabad has rekindled suspicions in Afghanistan. On Monday, Afghan officials were withering in their criticism of Pakistan as the locus of terrorism.
''Pakistan is the problem, and the West has to pay attention,'' said Amrullah Saleh, the former intelligence director of Afghanistan, who resigned last summer. Though jubilant at the death of Bin Laden, he said it was time for the United States to ''wake up to the fact that Pakistan is a hostile state exporting terror.''
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan was more diplomatic but said Bin Laden's death should speed the end of the war.
''We said that the fight against terrorism is not in bombing women and children of Afghanistan,'' Mr. Karzai said to a meeting of Afghan district leaders on Monday. ''The fight against terrorism is in its sanctuaries, in its training bases and in its financing centers, not in Afghanistan, and now it's proved that we were right.''
Mr. Obama has set a deadline of July for beginning a withdrawal of American forces from Afghanistan. As the White House begins to debate how many troops should leave and how quickly, Pentagon officials and military officers said they expected additional pressure to reassess the strategy and accelerate a withdrawal.
Officials pointed to one unexpected benefit of the raid: American allies in the Persian Gulf believe that Iran may be chastened, however temporarily, by evidence of a forceful operation by the United States to protect its national security interests -- and one that required violating the sovereignty of another nation.
Although Mr. Brennan acknowledged questions about Pakistan's trustworthiness, the administration sought to keep relations calm. Mr. Obama called President Asif Ali Zardari. The administration's special representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan, Marc Grossman, arrived in Islamabad on Monday for previously scheduled three-way talks between the United States, Pakistan and Afghanistan. A previously scheduled conference between top-level American and Pakistan defense officials convened Monday at the Pentagon, and will continue Tuesday. Still, the next few days and weeks could prove bumpy, American and Pakistani officials said, as the two side try to rebuild trust.
''Pakistan is a huge country with lots of people, some of whom unfortunately sympathize with the goals of terrorists,'' said Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's ambassador to Washington. ''But their presence in the country should not be interpreted as, in any way, state complicity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BUDGETS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%); RELIGION (54%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



82 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Trump on Abortion, Swearwords and Handshakes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS - The television in Donald J. Trump's three-bedroom suite is tuned to MSNBC.
As our interview begins, I asked the real estate mogul for a reaction to an attack from the MSNBC host Lawrence O'Donnell. Hours earlier, Mr. O'Donnell had said that NBC was embarrassing itself by allowing Mr. Trump to remain on the air as he challenged President Obama's citizenship.
''Who is Lawrence O'Donnell?'' Mr. Trump asks, slyly, as he turns off MSNBC. ''You can quote me on the record. I don't know Lawrence O'Donnell. Is he on one of the affiliates?'' 
Such is an hour with Mr. Trump - filled with knowing looks, bizarre digressions, savvy observations and blustery bravado.
What follows are edited excerpts from a conversation on Friday:
On his opposition to abortion: There are certain things that I don't think can ever be negotiated. Let me put it this way: I am pro life, and pro-life people will find out that I will be very loyal to them, just as I am loyal to other people. I would be appointing judges that feel the way I feel.
On his reluctance to shake hands: I still have a thing. It's not a question of touching. Shaking hands is proven to be a bad thing to do for our health. People have colds, they have flu, they have pneumonia, and it comes out scientifically, if you shake people's hand and they have the flu, or a cold, or whatever they have, you then touch yourself, you touch your nose, you catch it. This has come out scientifically. This isn't me. This is just science.
On why he swore, repeatedly, during a Las Vegas speech: I am in Las Vegas. I know the crowd. I actually don't curse much. But you saw the crowd. It was a great crowd and great people. But it was also a crowd that loves that kind of emphasis. It's something I rarely do. But in that crowd, and you saw it. Every time I did it, there was a standing ovation. You have to know your crowd. Now, that crowd loved it. Would I do it in a different location, would I do it in front of a different crowd, even a different crowd in Las Vegas? Uh, no. But sometimes, for emphasis, you can do that. I know exactly what I am doing. It worked out. Every single time I did that, they stood up and started roaring. But you don't do it to a lot of other crowds. Does that make sense?
On why he no longer supports his 1999 plan to tax the richest Americans at 14.25 percent to erase the national debt: That proposal would have paid off our debt, but we had a much different country then, a much richer country. We have a country right now that is a tinder box. And when I say tinder box, I mean a tinder box that could be ready to explode with some wrong moves. Because we have weak - our jobs picture is tenuous. The real number is 18 or 19 percent, not 9 percent.
On whether he would take a salary as president: No, I wouldn't take it.
On the austerity of past presidents, which he finds distasteful: You know, Jimmy Carter would get off the plane carrying his own suits because he thought it was inappropriate for a Marine to carry his suits. So here is the president of the U.S. - do you remember this? Here would be the president of the United States carrying his suits and a bag. I don't think people want to see that from the president of the United States. Maybe I am wrong.
On his use of technology, like iPads: I use it very little. I do have them all. But when I read papers, I read the papers. My kids see me and say, Dad, I can't believe you. They read the computer all day long.
On why he does not answer ''trick'' questions from reporters about the economy, government and foreign policy: I don't answer questions where I am a student in a history class. I had a question asked of me by a very nice writer from Time magazine. He said how many people are in the House? I said, I know the answer, but I am not going to answer. I think it was 435 or something. You know, it varies and all. I said, 'I am not going to be asked questions like that.' Like what people did with Sarah Palin. Whether I know the answer or not is irrelevant. And actually I know that answer, but I am not that answer. I am not a student in a history class - or a current events class.
On why he opposes Representative Paul D. Ryan's deficit reduction plan: I am talking as a deal maker. I am a deal maker. I am a really good deal maker. I make great deals. That is what I do. And, for Congressman Ryan to come out with the first plan, which he did not have to do, where he is talking about major changes to Medicare and Medicaid, the Democrats are licking their chops. They never thought they could be so lucky. Now, I know these Democrats. What have they been doing over the last two weeks? They have been demagoguing the Republicans on Medicare, talking about all the horrors that are going to be caused. These Republicans are going into their districts and people are not even letting them speak. And we have an election to win. So I have a problem with it. I have a problem.
On how he may use his television show, ''The Apprentice,'' to further his political campaign: On May 22, we have our live finale. That will be a two-hour live finale, from either Lincoln Center or at Skirball hall at New York University. They both want it. I think it will be at N.Y.U. Sometime prior to the firing, I may say, that on such and such a date, on such and such a time, probably at Trump Tower, on 56th to 57th street on Fifth Avenue, I will make my decision as to whether I run for president, by the end of the show.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donald J. Trump last week in Las Vegas. In an interview, Mr. Trump said he would not take a salary if elected president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BECKER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ABORTION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (67%); JUDGES (51%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (93%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



83 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: A Real, Unnecessary Crisis for Families

 BODY:
Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, made a strong argument for good early childhood care. In a speech in New York City, he argued that the value can be especially high for disadvantaged children with a strong payoff for the economy. These programs can increase high school graduation rates, and graduates earn more, pay more taxes, and rely less on state-provided health care. 
We hope Mayor Michael Bloomberg was listening. At present, the city subsidizes child care for 98,000 children. His new budget would end that support for 16,500 of them in September, for a savings of $95 million in the city's $65.6 billion budget.
Families receiving public assistance or welfare will not be affected. Those losing the subsidies are deemed working poor -- with an income of less than 200 percent of the poverty level or $36,620 for a family of three. They pay from $5 to $100 a week for city-sponsored child care. Few will be able to pay the full cost on their own, and, without a safe and educational place for their children, many won't be able to keep working. Their only option will be welfare.
The Independent Budget Office of New York City has suggested several better ways to save or raise money. Cutting transportation for private school students would save $37 million a year. A 6 cent tax on every plastic bag provided at stores would raise $94 million, almost exactly what is needed to maintain current child care subsidies. Mayor Bloomberg and the City Council talk about budgeting for the future. Cutting child care is not the way to do it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD CARE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); GRADUATION RATES (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (74%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011



84 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Glencore's I.P.O. Mimics Another

BYLINE: By ROB COX and ANTONY CURRIE

 BODY:
Is Glencore the new Blackstone? It has become a theme from Wall Street to the City and beyond that the commodity trader's planned $12 billion stock offering signals the top of its industry's cycle, just as Blackstone's did for private equity. But investors should watch for other similarities when scrubbing Glencore's prospectus, due out Wednesday.
Prices for the goods Glencore produces and trades -- wheat, oil, cobalt, sugar, gold, cotton, you name it -- have surged in recent months, in some cases to record highs. For skeptics, that signals a bubble, inflated by the money being pumped into the markets by central banks. 
Hence the obvious comparison with Blackstone, which went public in June 2007 as similarly favorable market conditions made debt cheap and plentiful and spurred record leveraged buyout activity. The private equity firm sold $7.1 billion of its shares at a price that hasn't been seen in nearly four years. To be fair, the financial crisis intervened and the shares are now recovering. Even so, any I.P.O. investors are still smarting.
Glencore's boosters would argue that rising demand for commodities from China, India and elsewhere will last decades. Moreover, the company can hedge many of its bets more easily than Blackstone could. Even if that makes equating the timing of the two landmark floats simplistic, it's still plausible.
Both I.P.O.'s also cast unprecedented light on businesses that were previously intensely private. For private equity, that included political attention and efforts to tax the industry more heavily. Glencore may face questions of its own as it is exposed to scrutiny, and could end up having to change elements of its business model.
Also worthy of scrutiny when the details emerge will be Glencore's governance. Technically, Blackstone sold units in a partnership, which conferred many fewer rights. Glencore could do the same. Moreover, like Blackstone, Glencore may sell chunks of stock to sovereign wealth funds. The commodity firm's size, certain inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index and dominance of its industry make it impossible for global investors to ignore. Boning up on Blackstone may help focus their analysis.
Fiat's Bargain
Fiat's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, may have engineered the auto deal of the century. When the Italian automaker agreed to take bankrupt Chrysler into its workshop two years ago, it looked like a relatively risk-free, but way out-of-the-money bet on a turnaround: the United States government gave Fiat management control and a 20 percent stake -- since increased to 30 percent -- for nothing. Had Chrysler, Detroit's No. 3, proved unsalvageable, Fiat would have lost little but time spent.
Only now is it becoming clear how good a bargain Fiat negotiated. The catalyst is Chrysler's financial performance, which has now improved enough for it to be able to refinance the $7.5 billion of debt that kept the company afloat in 2009. Doing that allows Fiat to buy a 16 percent stake, for $1.3 billion.
On its own, that's hardly a steal. It values the manufacturer at $7.9 billion by using Fiat's multiple of enterprise value to trailing earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a calculation stipulated in the 2009 agreement with the Treasury. As a stand-alone entity, Chrysler shouldn't command such a sum. Using Ford's trading multiple, for example, would value Chrysler's equity at just $7.4 billion. And Chrysler ekes out pretax margins only a fifth of Ford's.
But overpaying is hardly a concern for Fiat. For starters, it got 30 percent as a giveaway and should add 5 percent this year. Fold in the stake it is paying for and Fiat becomes majority owner. That's when the real juice should appear -- from squeezing costs. Mr. Marchionne has doubtless found savings already. But imagine if he can slash 3 percent, or $3 billion, of the two firms' combined costs, as Daimler and Chrysler promised when announcing their 1998 union.
Once taxed, discounted and capitalized, those savings would be worth some $17 billion to shareholders, more than double Chrysler's implied value. True, the car sector's recent past -- Fiat included -- is littered with similar promises that never materialized. But with such a large margin for error, only extraordinary incompetence on Mr. Marchionne's part can prevent turning the Chrysler deal into the industry's shining exception.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A coal mine in Colombia owned by Glencore, the commodity trader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ISSUES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (55%)

COMPANY: GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (92%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); FIAT SPA (82%)

TICKER: GLEN (LSE) (92%); 0805 (HKSE) (92%); BX (NYSE) (92%); FSOR (PAR) (82%); F (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (92%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (82%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



85 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Sees Rise For the World To 10.1 Billion

BYLINE: By JUSTIN GILLIS and CELIA W. DUGGER; Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The population of the world, long expected to stabilize just above 9 billion in the middle of the century, will instead keep growing and may hit 10.1 billion by the year 2100, the United Nations projected in a report released Tuesday.
Growth in Africa remains so high that the population there could more than triple in this century, rising from today's one billion to 3.6 billion, the report said -- a sobering forecast for a continent already struggling to provide food and water for its people.
The new report comes just ahead of a demographic milestone, with the world population expected to pass 7 billion in late October, only a dozen years after it surpassed 6 billion. Demographers called the new projections a reminder that a problem that helped define global politics in the 20th century, the population explosion, is far from solved in the 21st.
''Every billion more people makes life more difficult for everybody -- it's as simple as that,'' said John Bongaarts, a demographer at the Population Council, a research group in New York. ''Is it the end of the world? No. Can we feed 10 billion people? Probably. But we obviously would be better off with a smaller population.'' 
The projections were made by the United Nations population division, which has a track record of fairly accurate forecasts. In the new report, the division raised its forecast for the year 2050, estimating that the world would most likely have 9.3 billion people then, an increase of 156 million over the previous estimate for that year, published in 2008.
Among the factors behind the upward revisions is that fertility is not declining as rapidly as expected in some poor countries, and has shown a slight increase in many wealthier countries, including the United States, Britain and Denmark.
The director of the United Nations population division, Hania Zlotnik, said the world's fastest-growing countries, and the wealthy Western nations that help finance their development, face a choice about whether to renew their emphasis on programs that encourage family planning.
Though they were a major focus of development policy in the 1970s and 1980s, such programs have stagnated in many countries, caught up in ideological battles over abortion, sex education and the role of women in society. Conservatives have attacked such programs as government meddling in private decisions, and in some countries, Catholic groups fought widespread availability of birth control. And some feminists called for less focus on population control and more on empowering women.
Over the past decade, foreign aid to pay for contraceptives -- $238 million in 2009 -- has barely budged, according to United Nations estimates. The United States has long been the biggest donor, but the budget compromise in Congress last month cut international family planning programs by 5 percent.
''The need has grown, but the availability of family planning services has not,'' said Rachel Nugent, an economist at the Center for Global Development in Washington, a research group.
Dr. Zlotnik said in an interview that the revised numbers were based on new forecasting methods and the latest demographic trends. But she cautioned that any forecast looking 90 years into the future comes with many caveats.
That is particularly so for some fast-growing countries whose populations are projected to skyrocket over the next century. For instance, Yemen, a country whose population has quintupled since 1950, to 25 million, would see its numbers quadruple again, to 100 million, by century's end, if the projections prove accurate. Yemen already depends on food imports and faces critical water shortages.
In Nigeria, the most populous country in Africa, the report projects that population will rise from today's 162 million to 730 million by 2100. Malawi, a country of 15 million today, could grow to 129 million, the report projected.
The implicit, and possibly questionable, assumption behind these numbers is that food and water will be available for the billions yet unborn, and that potential catastrophes including climate change, wars or epidemics will not serve as a brake on population growth. ''It is quite possible for several of these countries that are smallish and have fewer resources, these numbers are just not sustainable,'' Dr. Zlotnik said.
Well-designed programs can bring down growth rates even in the poorest countries. Provided with information and voluntary access to birth-control methods, women have chosen to have fewer children in societies as diverse as Bangladesh, Iran, Mexico, Sri Lanka and Thailand.
One message from the new report is that the AIDS epidemic, devastating as it has been, has not been the demographic disaster that was once predicted. Prevalence estimates and projections for the human immunodeficiency virus made for Africa in the 1990s turned out to be too high, and in many populations, treatment with new drug regimens has cut the death rate from the disease.
But the survival of millions of people with AIDS who would have died without treatment, and falling rates of infant and child mortality -- both heartening trends -- also mean that fertility rates for women need to fall faster to curb population growth, demographers said.
Other factors have slowed change in Africa, experts said, including women's lack of power in their relationships with men, traditions like early marriage and polygamy, and a dearth of political leadership. While about three-quarters of married American women use a modern contraceptive, the comparable proportions are a quarter of women in East Africa, one in 10 in West Africa, and a mere 7 percent in Central Africa, according to United Nations statistics.
''West and Central Africa are the two big regions of the world where the fertility transition is happening, but at a snail's pace,'' said John F. May, a World Bank demographer.
Some studies suggest that providing easy, affordable access to contraceptives is not always sufficient. A trial by Harvard researchers in Lusaka, Zambia, found that only when women had greater autonomy to decide whether to use contraceptives did they have significantly fewer children. Other studies have found that general education for girls plays a critical role, in that literate young women are more likely to understand that family size is a choice.
The new report suggests that China, which has for decades enforced restrictive population policies, could soon enter the ranks of countries with declining populations, peaking at 1.4 billion in the next couple of decades, then falling to 941 million by 2100.
The United States is growing faster than many rich countries, largely because of high immigration and higher fertility among Hispanic immigrants. The new report projects that the United States population will rise from today's 311 million to 478 million by 2100.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 5, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart on Wednesday with the continuation of an article about global population projections by the United Nations misstated the year for which a breakdown of regional population estimates was given. It was 2100, not 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Women waiting at a health clinic in southern Malawi. Outreach health services in remote villages are one of the reasons Malawi has experienced a drop in child mortality. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: Asia Leads the Way: New projections by the United Nations suggest the world's population may surpass 10 billion by 2100 -- with Asia and Africa far and away the most populous regions. (Source: United Nations) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); SEX EDUCATION (85%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); WOMEN (73%); FAMILY PLANNING (69%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (64%); ABORTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); POPULATION COUNCIL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAWI (92%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



86 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Florida Puts Overhaul Of Courts to the Voters

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- The Florida Senate has decided to put major changes in the state court system before voters next year but only after rejecting the most contentious proposal, which would have split the Supreme Court in two.
The debate over the most sweeping judicial overhaul package in the country ended late Monday in a partial victory for Republicans and Speaker Dean Cannon, who had championed the changes.
The fight pitted Republicans calling for the broad changes against Democrats, lawyers and senior and retired judges, who called their efforts an attempt to politicize the bench by stripping the judiciary of its independence and giving the governor power to name judges. 
In the end, there were not enough Republicans willing to split the Supreme Court into separate divisions for criminal and civil cases. The change would have given Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, the power to appoint three new justices to hear appeals of civil cases.
Voting along party lines late Monday, the Senate instead approved a package of changes that increases the Legislature's influence on the state court system.
The measure would give the House access to investigations of judges and allow the Legislature to repeal judicial procedural rules enacted by the Florida Supreme Court. Perhaps most important, the changes would allow the Senate to confirm the governor's appointments of justices.
Critics said that all the changes, including the rejected Supreme Court provision, would have returned the state's judiciary to the era of cronyism. A half-century ago, Florida's judiciary was so riddled with old-school politics that a courthouse joke's punch line packed the sting of truth: ''What do you call a sitting judge? A friend of the governor.''
''Members, we're going down a slippery slope,'' Senator Christopher L. Smith, a Fort Lauderdale Democrat, said in Monday's debate. ''We're going into the judicial branch.''
Five Republican senators, most of whom are also lawyers, agreed with opponents of the bill, which included former justices, senior judges and Bob Graham, a Democrat and former governor and United States senator.
Mike Haridopolos, the Senate president, told reporters he had failed to deliver enough Republican votes to get the 60 percent needed to pass the bill with the Supreme Court provision intact. ''The person to blame is me,'' he said.
Legislative tug-of-wars with the judiciary occur in some state houses every year. But the tussles are usually limited to a single, narrow issue. What has made Florida's fight different is the breadth of the proposed changes.
The debate also came at a time when the court system, like Florida itself, is struggling with a financial crisis. Fewer lawsuits are being filed, which means a decline in filing fees, and that has left the courts with a $74 million shortfall. The resolutions in the Legislature guarantee full financing, but several senior judges said financial security for the courts in exchange for a less independent bench was a bad trade-off.
In the past month, the battle became intensely partisan and even personal. Republican legislators talked about the need to rein in the Supreme Court's power. (Last year, the court tossed out three ballot initiatives championed by the Legislature, both houses of which are controlled by Republicans.)
''Our Supreme Court of Florida has failed us over and over,'' Representative Charles E. Van Zant, Republican of Palatka, said last month on the House floor. ''This Legislature will send a message that should be sent.''
Predictably, the fervor of the advocates for the changes alarmed some current and former judges, including Raoul G. Cantero, who had been appointed to the Supreme Court by Gov. Jeb Bush, a Republican.
''If I were on the court, I'd be very disturbed by what is going on in the Legislature,'' said Mr. Cantero, who retired in 2008. ''There is a strong antijudiciary feeling that I feel is very counterproductive.''
The proposals, which are amendments to the State Constitution, would then be decided by Florida voters next year. Sixty percent of state voters are needed for the amendments to be approved.
The bill was a priority of Speaker Cannon, Republican of Winter Park.
''Is the judiciary independent? Yes,'' Mr. Cannon said in a recent interview. ''Omnipotent? No. Florida went too far with power to the judiciary after the late '60s and early '70s, and all we are doing is trying to establish a more efficient judicial branch.''
Critics argued that Mr. Cannon was motivated in part by revenge against the Supreme Court for striking down the three ballot initiatives approved by the Legislature. The justices concluded that the ballot initiative about political redistricting was intended to mislead voters.
''That's completely untrue,'' Mr. Cannon said of the critics' accusation. ''People who live in the status quo fight against any change of the status quo. But that doesn't mean these changes aren't what's best for the state of Florida.''
After the vote Monday night that stripped out the proposal to split the state's highest court, Mr. Cannon remained upbeat. ''It's a win,'' he told reporters. ''It's absolutely a win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker Dean Cannon, a Republican, pushed sweeping changes to the state's court system, including splitting the Supreme Court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE CANNON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator Christopher L. Smith warned his fellow Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL COALE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JUDGES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (55%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



87 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: As China Invests, U.S. Could Lose

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- For three decades, wealthy nations have invested hundreds of billions of dollars in China, helping drive one of the most remarkable economic booms in history.
Now, China is poised to return the investment favor. The question is whether the United States will be willing and able to fully participate, according to a new study to be released Thursday.
Flush with capital from its enormous trade surpluses and armed with the world's largest foreign exchange reserves, China has begun spreading its newfound riches to every corner of the world -- whether copper mines in Africa, iron ore facilities in Australia or even a gas shale project in the heart of Texas.
The study, commissioned by the Asia Society in New York and the Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars in Washington, forecasts that over the next decade China could invest as much as $2 trillion in overseas companies, plants or property, money that could help reinvigorate growth in the United States and Europe. 
But the report, to be released at a Washington news conference that Commerce Secretary Gary Locke plans to attend, also warns that the United States risks missing out on a large share of the Chinese investment boom because of politics, a growing rivalry between the two nations and deep-seated perceptions that Chinese investments are unwelcome in America.
''If political interference is not tempered,'' the study warns, some of the benefits of Chinese investment -- ''such as job creation, consumer welfare and even contributions to U.S. infrastructure renewal -- risk being diverted to our competitors.'' While Wall Street banks have lobbied for more Chinese investments in the United States, hoping that will bring bigger deals for the banks, Washington has remained wary -- even though the Obama administration says it welcomes Chinese money.
But anti-China rhetoric is hot in Washington and among many state and local officials. One frequently cited worry is that Chinese companies, many of them owned partly or entirely by the government, will use their purchases to gain military secrets. Another concern is that Chinese companies will buy American companies with manufacturing operations in the United States, close those factories and move production to China.
China, of course, is already a force in global markets. Over the last few years, it has made multibillion-dollar loans to developing nations and let its state-owned companies acquire minority stakes in global powerhouses like Rio Tinto, Morgan Stanley and the Blackstone Group.
China is also a major player in the global debt markets, holding about $1.6 trillion in United States Treasury bonds, an investment that helps keep American interest rates low and finances America's enormous debt.
But China is still a relatively small player in overseas direct investments, which include purchases of large, voting stakes in foreign companies and plants. That also includes investments in new construction projects on previously undeveloped land -- so-called greenfield facilities.
Last year, China's overseas direct investments amounted to about $59 billion. By comparison, the United States' figure was over $300 billion.
But with Beijing pushing its big companies to go overseas and invest in resources and technology, China's investments could soon reach $100 billion to $200 billion a year, according to the Asia Society study.
The potential problem for Beijing is that Chinese companies are not always welcomed overseas -- not only because China wields enormous economic clout but because state-owned giants are believed to be subsidized by the state and possibly working in the interest of the government.
Congressional critics of China's investment aspirations include Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island. ''Many of these companies are so closely intertwined with the government of China that it is hard to see where the company stops and the country begins, and vice versa,'' Mr. Reed recently told Reuters.
A series of proposed Chinese deals in the United States have been blocked by regulators or attacked by local politicians, who say they are worried China could gain access to sensitive military technology or take control of valuable natural resources.
In 2005, one of China's giant oil companies, Cnooc, dropped its bid to acquire the American oil giant Unocal after a Congressional investigation into the purchase. And in recent years, the Chinese telecommunications giant, Huawei, has repeatedly been rebuffed from making deals in the United States, over national security concerns.
More recently, the Anshan Iron and Steel Group, a Chinese company seeking to build a relatively unsophisticated steel rebar factory in Mississippi, had to fight fierce political opposition in the state, including fears the project would result in job losses and threaten national security.
Angered at what it says is protectionism masquerading as national security concern, Beijing has lodged sharp complaints with Washington.
The Treasury Department has placed the topic on the agenda for a high-level dialogue with Chinese officials scheduled for next week in Washington.
''We strongly welcome investment from around the world, including China,'' says Lael Brainard, one of the highest-ranking Treasury Department officials.
Still, some experts say anti-China sentiment is so high across the country that the United States is unlikely to attract the huge investments over the next few years that the Asia Society study suggests are possible.
''There's no chance this is going to happen,'' says Derek Scissors, an expert on China at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy institute in Washington. ''They want to invest a lot, but no one here's going to let them. The political climate in Washington is too anti-China right now.''
Daniel H. Rosen, co-author of the study with Thilo Hanemann, and a principal at the Rhodium Group, an economic advisory firm in New York, says that if Chinese companies are turned away, it could significantly reduce investment opportunities in the United States.
And, he warns, it could prompt China to retaliate against American businesses that operate in China, while also discouraging Beijing from pushing ahead with reforms that would make its business and financial markets more open and transparent.
''America has been debating this kind of thing for hundreds of years,'' Mr. Rosen said. ''But time and time again, America has decided'' to be open to investment from overseas, he said. ''Our conclusion is China is no different.''
To ensure that America gets its share of China's money, the study calls on Washington to send a clear, bipartisan message that Chinese investment in the United States is welcome, to protect any national security review process from political interference and to work with China to enhance its own transparency when it proposes investing in the United States.
Some analysts say China deserves some of the blame for opposition to its overseas investments, not just in the United States but elsewhere.
Chinese companies are not very transparent, and much of the investing by China is done by a handful of government-owned companies that have access to cheap state financing, giving them what some analysts say is an unfair advantage in competing for resources or assets.
But many analysts say China and the United States clearly need each other. China now has the capital American business so desperately seeks, and the United States has technology and a highly skilled work force.
Orville Schell, director of the Center on U.S.-China Relations at the Asia Society and the person who commissioned the study, says the United States must do its part to improve relations with China.
''I feel increasingly alarmed and discouraged by the willful ignorance of Americans to the competitive challenge the Chinese pose to the U.S., including in foreign investment,'' Mr. Schell said in an interview. ''China is looking for places to park its money, and it could be to our advantage. If we don't find a way to be open to China, it's undeniable the money will go elsewhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A copper mine in Zambia owned by Equinox Minerals. Minmetals Resources, a Chinese government-controlled mining company, made an unsolicited bid of $6.5 billion this year for Equinox but was outbid by Barrick Gold, which offered $7.7 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM LOFTHOUSE/EQUINOX, VIA REUTERS) (B4) CHART: Global Investors: China, with trillions of dollars in foreign reserves, may invest a substantial share of that money around the world in the coming decade. (Sources: Asia Society and Woodrow Wilson Int'l. Center for Scholars
 U.N. Conference on Trade and Development) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (76%); MINES & MINING (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); POLITICS (71%); COPPER MINING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); BOND MARKETS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (58%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (56%); TREASURY SECURITIES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); RIO TINTO GROUP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); BX (NYSE) (58%); RIOS (BRU) (57%); RIO (NYSE) (57%); RIO (LSE) (57%); RIO (ASX) (57%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (57%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (57%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (57%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (56%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



88 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Demand for Small Cars Pushed April Sales Up 18%

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Vehicle sales rose 18 percent in April, automakers said Tuesday, as consumers flocked to smaller cars in response to higher fuel prices and improved models from surging American companies.
General Motors led the Detroit automakers last month with a 27 percent gain in American sales, led by strong demand for its Chevrolet Cruze compact sedan and smaller, more fuel-efficient sport utility vehicles.
The auto companies attributed the surge in small-car sales to gas prices, which are approaching $4 a gallon. ''Rising fuel prices have led many to rethink their vehicle of choice,'' said Don Johnson, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales. 
The higher demand for small cars has caused shortages of some models, particularly at Toyota, which is struggling to maintain an adequate supply because of production disruptions from the earthquake in Japan.
But over all, the demand for compact and subcompact cars is keeping the industry on track for a slow but steady recovery from recession-era sales levels.
The auto companies said sales for the year were running at an annual rate above 13 million vehicles for the third consecutive month.
The results are more impressive considering that incentive spending has dropped an average of $500 a vehicle from the period a year ago.
''Pent-up demand has been building in the industry for the last few years,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''The average age of vehicles is now above 10 years, the highest level ever.''
One of the hottest car companies during April was Hyundai, a Korean company, which rode the success of its new Elantra sedan to a 40 percent overall improvement in sales. Hyundai sold more than 22,000 Elantras in the month -- up from 9,600 a year ago.
All three Japanese automakers lagged the market, especially Toyota, where sales increased about 1 percent. A Toyota executive said that the company was running low on inventories of two of its most fuel-efficient cars, the Prius hybrid and Corolla subcompact, because of factory shutdowns after the earthquake and tsunami in northern Japan.
''We're feeling it in some models already,'' said Bob Carter, head of Toyota's sales operations in the United States. ''There was an interruption in the flow of Corolla and Prius inventory from Japan.''
Toyota has less than a 10-day supply of Priuses, and about a 40-day supply of Corollas, he said. Other hybrid models, like the Lexus RX crossover, have been affected by major parts shortages as well.
Mr. Carter said that Toyota's North American assembly plants were running at about 30 percent capacity. Japanese factories are closed for holidays, but are expected to reopen next week at half-speed.
''We will be ramping up this summer and be reaching normal production levels before the end of the year,'' he said.
Honda's sales increased 10 percent in April, and Nissan reported a 12 percent increase.
Nissan said it sold 573 Leafs in April, the best month so far for the all-electric sedan, which has been available in limited numbers. By comparison, G.M. sold 493 Volts, its plug-in hybrid.
The performance by General Motors was built on a substantial increase in passenger-car sales, which were up 50 percent in April from a year earlier. Sales of its full-size pickups increased only 2 percent in the month.
Ford reported a 16 percent jump in sales, with high demand for its new Fiesta and Focus small cars and its new and lighter version of the Explorer S.U.V.
A Ford executive said that the company was hard pressed to keep up with orders for the new Focus.
''Dealers were telling us they were selling them right off of the convoy truck,'' said Ken Czubay, Ford's head of United States sales and marketing.
The smallest of Detroit's Big Three, Chrysler, appears to finally be seeing the benefits of an overhaul of its product lineup after emerging from bankruptcy two years ago.
Chrysler said its sales increased 23 percent for the month, and its car sales rose 41 percent from a year ago. The company also sold 882 Fiat 500 micro-cars, the first models it has introduced in the United States from its Italian partner.
The overall increase in sales came as incentive levels continued to fall.
Automakers spent an average of $2,100 on incentives during the month, compared to $2,600 in April of last year.
The largest rebates -- about $3,200 a vehicle -- were found on large trucks, according to the auto research Web site Edmunds.com.
''Demand has shifted toward smaller cars just as car companies are experiencing inventory shortages of those very vehicles,'' said Jeremy Anwyl, chief executive of Edmunds.
''They are focusing their dollars where there are gaps between demand and supply, such as in the pickup-truck segment,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hyundai Elantra
Toyota Corolla/Matrix CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); SALES FIGURES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TSUNAMIS (68%); EARTHQUAKES (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



89 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; FEED ME; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: A Border-Crossing Pastry Chef

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL

 BODY:
PARENTS of picky eaters, take heart!
Does your daughter refuse to drink milk unless Frosted Flakes have been soaked in it? Or consider cookie dough an acceptable substitute for cauliflower? Does her favorite sandwich consist of a baguette slathered with Miracle Whip, stuffed with nacho cheese Doritos?
Do not despair! One day, you might end up with a child like Christina Tosi, 29, who not only is healthy and strong in spite of her diet, but also has been nominated for a James Beard Foundation Award as Rising Star Chef of the Year.
''Of course, I wanted a bakery when I grew up,'' Ms. Tosi said. ''It's the other little-girl dream besides being a princess.'' 
The 11,000-square-foot warehouse she's ended up with in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is no place for a princess. As the founding chef of Momofuku Milk Bar, the dessert and snack division of the Momofuku restaurant group, Ms. Tosi supervises a staff of 30 who turn out breads, desserts, soft-serve ice cream (flavored with cereal milk) and savory snacks like croissants baked with caraway-infused butter, filled with pastrami, sauerkraut and Russian dressing. Besides baking for the two Milk Bar retail stores -- one in the East Village, the other in Midtown -- the warehouse supplies the four Momofuku restaurants in New York -- Noodle Bar, Ssam Bar, Ko and Ma Peche -- and fills orders placed online at milkbarstore.com.
Ms. Tosi's baked goods are not what you would expect from a graduate of the French Culinary Institute who worked at Bouley. Cakes are often constructed without icing on the sides so the layers are visible, and ingredients like potato chips, pretzels, cornflakes and coffee grounds make their way into her generously sized cookies. Too much is never too much, and no idea is a bad idea. It's high-toned bake sale grub for artists and stoners alike.
''I was never raised to take myself so seriously when baking,'' she said comfortably. ''I'm crisscrossed with how accurate most bakers and home bakers are. My whole approach is to look in cupboards and throw a bunch of stuff together. It can't really be bad if it's coated in chocolate and butter. Just enjoy yourself.''
On the afternoon I visited Ms. Tosi, she wore an orange-and-white polka-dot scarf of her grandmother's to hold back her reddish hair. With her milky complexion, she looked the embodiment of peaches and cream. Tall and thin, she doesn't walk as much as trot through the vast reaches of the bakery, perpetually in motion.
What's interesting about her nomination for the Beard Awards, to be held on Monday, is the category: Rising Star Chef, not Outstanding Pastry Chef. It's fair to say she falls somewhere in between. Her pork buns, kimchi-blue cheese croissants and chorizo challah (oy) are not exactly traditional fare. ''I loved the challenge of working under a pastry chef, but I struggled with it,'' she said. ''Certain parts of me aren't fussy enough to make those plated desserts. It doesn't speak to me, that delicate dreaminess. I just didn't have it.''
Ms. Tosi grew up in Springfield, Va., a suburb of Washington. Her father was an agricultural economist in the dairy division of the Department of Agriculture. Her mother, an accountant, thought nothing of whipping up a batch of chocolate chip cookies using I Can't Believe It's Not Butter. ''My mom loves the nurturing thoughtfulness behind baking,'' her daughter said diplomatically. ''It's less about art than sentiment.''
After spending a year at the University of Virginia, intending to become an electrical engineer, Ms. Tosi studied Italian and math in Florence and graduated early from James Madison University. ''I felt really drawn to New York,'' she said, ''though I never came here growing up.'' She attended culinary school by day and worked as a hostess at Aquagrill at night, before being promoted to maitre d'hotel.
Once she graduated, her pastry schedule at Bouley was six days a week. On the seventh day, she never rested: ''I would help people I knew who were food stylists or caterers. For a while, I worked one day a week as an editorial assistant at Saveur. I never took time off, I was so excited about trying everything and I wanted to be the best employee. But I was a terrible family member. I missed all the holidays, birthdays and weddings back home.''
After working for a year as a pastry cook at WD-50, she was hired by David Chang, the creator of the Momofuku group, in an office job so loosely defined they called it ''et cetera.'' Since she wasn't baking at work, she baked at home instead and, as snacks, brought in her chocolate chip cookies sandwiched with icing, and chocolate brownies mixed with peanut butter and jelly with potato chips crushed on top. Mr. Chang asked her to make a single dessert for Ssam Bar, and she chose strawberry shortcake with a sweet biscuit dough rolled in confectioners' sugar. Milk Bar soon became her laboratory-cum-playground.
In October, Clarkson Potter is to publish ''Momofuku Milk Bar,'' featuring Ms. Tosi's signature recipes. On this day, she showed me how to make pickled strawberry jam, a spread more than a jelly that she uses for multiple purposes. It was warm and sweet with a slight bite behind it. I had worried about the need to sterilize jars, but she just laughed. ''Get real,'' she said. ''It's not like stewing tomatoes and leaving them on the shelf forever.''
The warehouse was filled with female pastry cooks; a group of them assembled cinnamon bun pies near the stove where Ms. Tosi worked. Why do women seem to gravitate toward pastry?
''Growing up, I was taught to love dessert,'' she said. ''But I'm not scared of boys or getting yelled at or carrying something heavy or being on the line. I'll scream with you, and I'll work harder than you, that's for sure, girl or boy.'' She laughed. ''I do this,'' she said, ''because I would much rather eat cookie dough.''
Recipe: Pickled Strawberry Jam
Adapted from Christina Tosi
Time: 20 minutes, plus cooling
1 3/4 cups sugar
1 tablespoon powdered pectin
1 teaspoon salt
3 cups strawberries, hulled
2 tablespoons sherry vinegar
1 tablespoon rice wine vinegar
5 coriander seeds
1 cardamom pod.
1. In a bowl, whisk the sugar, pectin and salt to combine. If a seedless jam is desired, puree the berries in a blender and strain through a fine-meshed sieve. Otherwise, leave them whole, or cut large ones into quarters.
2. In a medium saucepan, combine the sherry vinegar, rice wine vinegar, coriander and cardamom. Bring to a boil over medium heat, and immediately remove from heat. Remove and discard the coriander seeds and cardamom.
3. Return the saucepan to medium heat and add the sugar mixture, stirring with a wooden spoon until blended; it will be dry at first. Add the strawberries or strawberry puree, and continue to stir, crushing the berries with the spoon, until the mixture is liquefied and comes to a boil. Continue to boil, stirring constantly, until thickened, about 3 minutes.
4. Pour the jam into a heat-proof bowl and let cool completely. Store it, covered, in the refrigerator. The jam can also be frozen for up to six months.
Yield: 3 cups.
Serving suggestions: Spread the jam on toast, use it as a filling for crepes or cakes, or swirl it into sweet buns or coffeecake. Mix it with an equal amount of cream cheese to make a spread. Or it may be mixed with an equal amount of butter for spreading or baking, or for blending with confectioners' sugar and a pinch of salt to make a frosting for cake or cinnamon buns.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: INNOVATIVE: Christina Tosi is a nominee for a James Beard Rising Star award. Above right, her pickled strawberry jam. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); BAKERIES (89%); SNACK FOODS (89%); ICE CREAM (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (74%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (70%); RETAILERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



90 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'FUTURE ANXIETY'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: No Shades Needed in Not-So-Bright Future

BYLINE: By ERIC GRODE

 BODY:
It's the end of the world as we know it, or mighty close to it, in Laurel Haines's agreeably disjointed ''Future Anxiety,'' which opened on Thursday night at the Flea Theater. And while its many, many inhabitants may not exactly feel fine, they're largely at peace with a world in which China imports American debtors as slave laborers, and the unemployment rate has dropped to a mere 65 percent. 
The Flea often draws on its Bats, as its unpaid young performers are known, to people large-scale productions. And with a cast of 21 flooding the snug stage, Ms. Haines and her director, Jim Simpson, generate an energy befitting a not-so-distant future that resembles a global game of musical chairs, as 12 billion people squabble over rapidly diminishing resources. Even if the narrative doesn't develop much, darting instead among a half-dozen or so subplots, it stops at several imaginative cul-de-sacs along the way.
Most of these provide welcome strains of gallows humor. The ascendant Chinese quickly find themselves aping the Americans' most ludicrous spending habits, and a pair of perky newscasters take the ''man on the street'' convention to a new level by soliciting advice from a homeless man. (''Tip No. 39: Start drinking.'')
Ms. Haines's scorn for today's rapacious society occasionally results in polemics, but the majority of her various plots show significant promise. And while it's tricky for many of the Bats to make an impression within Mr. Simpson's pell-mell staging, Holly Chou and Katherine Folk-Sullivan find the right mix of wit and intensity.
It takes years of ''re-entry therapy'' to prepare several cryogenically unfrozen characters -- always a good proxy for sci-fi audiences, who themselves have been abruptly fast-forwarded into the future -- for the world that awaits them in ''Future Anxiety.'' Thanks to the spoonful of sugar that Ms. Haines and Mr. Simpson have added to their dose of dystopia, our transition is much smoother.
''Future Anxiety'' continues through May 26 at the Flea Theater, 41 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa; (866) 811-4111, theatermania.com, theflea.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Future Anxiety: Ugo Chukwu, center, with other cast members in Laurel Haines's large-scale production at the Flea Theater in TriBeCa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Future Anxiety (Play)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



91 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: A Levee Breached, and New Worries Downstream

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER and JOHN SCHWARTZ; A. G. Sulzberger reported from Sikeston, and John Schwartz from New York. Malcolm Gay contributed reporting from Cairo, Ill.

 BODY:
SIKESTON, MO. -- With a rapid series of explosions late Monday that could be felt for miles through the Missouri soil, the Army Corps of Engineers successfully blew out some 11,000 feet of Mississippi River levee, taking dangerous pressure off the river above.
But now the risk is flowing downstream.
Waters released into the 130,000-acre floodway by the corps will soon re-enter the Mississippi near New Madrid, through two 5,500-foot stretches blasted out over two days at the lower end of the basin, and the crest will continue to roll on, with the river expected to match or beat its previous record heights at many points along the way.
For the people responsible for trying to manage the unmanageable river, each success is replaced by new worries. 
''We're just at the beginning of the beginning,'' said Maj. Gen. Michael J. Walsh of the Army Corps of Engineers and president of the Mississippi River Commission.
His decision to inundate the 130,000 acres within the spillway's basin almost certainly saved the town of Cairo, Ill. The river had reached a record 61.7 feet at Cairo before the explosion and was predicted to rise more than a foot further.
The river fell to 60.1 feet by Tuesday afternoon. But, General Walsh warned, the floodway only offered temporary relief and the water levels upstream could soon rise again. ''The crest will come back up,'' he added. ''We'll see where we go from there.''
The people whose land was under all that water watched with wonder and dismay.
''She's coming across here now, ain't she?'' Ed Marshall, 57, a farmer, said as he arrived Tuesday to get an early sense of the damage with his insurance agent atop the interior levee that forms the western boundary of the spillway. ''There's nothing I can do about it. It's in God's hands.''
Mark Dugan, 59, used binoculars to find the top of his recently remodeled farmhouse poking out, like an iceberg, from the fast-moving water. A shed had been washed into a stand of trees.
''We just question the way they did it,'' he said of the Army Corps of Engineers. ''Actually we even question the fact they did do it.''
Gov. Jay Nixon visited the emergency command center here on Tuesday, declaring, ''It's a lot of water out there, folks.'' He was not talking just about the river, but also about communities farther inland, where days of rain had saturated and covered the ground.
Mr. Nixon pledged to commit resources to restoring the area. ''It goes beyond rebuilding the levee,'' he said. ''It's about rebuilding the farm economy here.''
Carlin Bennett, the presiding commissioner for Mississippi County, said his community's biggest fear was that the plan to use the spillway would ultimately have little effect: ''You blow the levee, it ruins us and you don't get any relief up or downstream.''
Meanwhile the surging river, and the flooding it is almost certain to cause, moved south. More than 40 percent of the nation's waters drain into the Mississippi, and relentless rainfall is creating formidable challenges.
''We're going to fight this river all the way down to the Gulf of Mexico,'' said Col. Vernie L. Reichling Jr., who commands the Memphis District of the corps. He estimated that the corps had already spent $5 million fighting the flood in his district. ''I don't see this letting up,'' he said, adding that he expected to be fighting the flooding into next month.
While the main defenses along the Mississippi are expected to hold up under the onslaught, flooding is likely as water backs up into the rivers and tributaries that feed into the Mississippi, and tests ''non-federal'' levees that line those waterways.
''The water can't drain into the Mississippi because the river levels are so high,'' said Jeff Graschel of the Lower Mississippi River Forecast Center, part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. And while the federal levees are high and strong, ''anything that's non-federal is a different story,'' he said.
Current and former corps officials said that they expect almost every part of the system that was designed to divert floodwaters along the Mississippi River and Tributaries Project to come into play, including backwater areas at the mouths of the St. Francis, White, Yazoo and Red Rivers. Their levees are designed to allow floodwaters to course over the top when the river rises too high.
Farther down the river, there is the Old River Control Structure, which was built to keep the Atchafalaya Basin from capturing too much of the Mississippi's flow.
Flooding in 1973 undercut the enormous structure and threatened to wash it away. But improvements in subsequent years and additional facilities have lessened the risk to an extent that experts have expressed little concern about it. They also suggested that it might serve to temporarily divert more of the Mississippi's waters in the worst of the flood.
Below the Old River Control Structure come two additional spillways -- the Morganza and Bonnet Carre -- that can release water from the Mississippi's flow.
The corps is likely to open the gates on both of those structures. The Morganza can send 600,000 cubic feet of water per second down the Atchafalaya Basin; it has not been used since the floods of 1973.
The Bonnet Carre spillway, about 30 miles above New Orleans, can drive 250,000 cubic feet per second into Lake Pontchartrain, which can then empty into the gulf. It has been used nine times between 1937 and 2008.
''It's like a symphony,'' said Charles A. Camillo, a historian with the Mississippi Valley division of the corps. ''You've got a lot of different instruments being played at the same time.''
Don T. Riley, a former deputy chief of engineers for the corps and a retired major general, expressed confidence in the ability of the Mississippi's flood control systems to deal with tremendous volumes of water.
But he said tributary flooding was a continuing concern, and parts of the main river control system had not yet been completed to the maximum height and strength called for in the corps' plans.
Though the system is hardy and resilient, Mr. Riley said, ''there's going to be big concern all the way down the river -- if more rains come, all bets are off.''
The power of nature to overcome the best defenses should never be underestimated, said George C. Grugett, the executive vice president of the Mississippi Valley Flood Control Association near Memphis.
''People don't understand how mighty this old Mississippi is,'' he said, ''and how much damage it can do when it goes on a rampage like this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Roy Presson, with his daughters Catherine, left, and Amanda, looking out at their flooded 2,400-acre farm on Tuesday in Wyatt, Mo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (A17)
 Floodwaters on Tuesday in Mississippi County, Mo., after the Army Corps of Engineers blew a two-mile hole into the Birds Point levee in southeast Missouri to protect nearby Cairo, Ill. More photographs at nytimes.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF ROBERSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A18) MAPS: Overflowing: Punishing rains have flooded the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, jeopardizing nearby communities in the Midwest and South. (Sources: NASA Earth Observatory) (MAPS BY HAEYOUN PARK AND ARCHIE TSE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (91%); ARMIES (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: JAY NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



92 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Town, Survivor of Dust Bowl, Now Battles a Fiercer Drought

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
BOISE CITY, Okla. -- While tornadoes and floods have ravaged the South and the Midwest, the remote western edge of the Oklahoma Panhandle is quietly enduring a weather calamity of its own: its longest drought on record, even worse than the Dust Bowl, when incessant winds scooped up the soil into billowing black clouds and rolled it through this town like bowling balls.
With a drought continuing to punish much of the Great Plains, this one stands out. Boise (rhymes with voice) City has gone 222 consecutive days through Tuesday with less than a quarter-inch of rainfall in any single day, said Gary McManus, a state climatologist. That is the longest such dry spell here since note-keeping began in 1908.
The Dust Bowl of the 1930s, caused in part by the careless gouging of the earth in an effort to farm it, created an epic environmental disaster. Experts say it is unlikely to be repeated because farming has changed so much. Boise City recovered from the Dust Bowl and has periodically enjoyed bountiful years since. 
But this drought is a reminder of just how parched and unyielding life can be along this wind-raked frontier, fittingly called No Man's Land, and it is not clear how many more ups and downs Boise City can take.
''The community is drying up,'' Mark Axtell, the area's only funeral director, said on a walk through the cemetery, where brown tufts of buffalo grass crunched underfoot.
In the last decade, Boise City lost almost 16 percent of its population, according to the 2010 census. Just 1,312 people live here now -- far fewer than the 3,000 who bought the first lots in 1908, only to discover that they had been hoodwinked. The land was inhospitable, and promises of railroads, water and trees (Boise is from the French ''le bois,'' meaning trees) were a fraud.
Boise City became the county seat for Cimarron County. But now, the county, too, has sagged. In the last decade it lost 21 percent of its population. Its 2,475 residents are spread so thin over such a wide expanse that an average of only 1.3 people occupy each square mile.
The young have little reason to stay. The old are dying or moving away to be closer to their children or to medical facilities, since Boise City's only nursing home has closed.
''Last year, we did half as many funerals as the year I took over,'' said Mr. Axtell, 48, who bought the business 25 years ago. ''Last year was my fourth consecutive low year.''
The plunge in funerals prompted him to buy a cafe last year to supplement his income. Called the Rockin' A, its 12 tables have become the town's social hub.
But the main street outside is deserted, and many storefronts are shuttered. Most people shop at the Wal-Mart 60 miles away.
Residents blame a lack of jobs -- not the drought -- for the town's decline. Dry spells come and go, they say, and coping with them is baked into their psyches. Many who live here are descended from those souls who endured the Dust Bowl and have reaped harvests aplenty since; they are bound to the land and not easily discouraged.
''Your die-hards will stay here,'' Rebecca Smoot, 58, whose family homesteaded here in the early 1900s, said during breakfast at the Rockin' A. She lives in Boise City but works as a corrections officer just over the border in Texas. ''They stayed here during the Dirty Thirties when everyone else was moving. That's the way a lot of the people ended up with a lot of the land.''
Those who stayed then are deemed successful now, though many were too poor at the time to leave with the ''Okies.''
Huston Hanes, 87, who lived through the Dust Bowl on a farm in eastern Cimarron County, said he would never forget the wind blowing fine dust particles throughout his house and how quickly the wet cloths he held over his face to protect his lungs would turn black. But he said he was glad his family stayed.
''We have hard times, but any place you go, you're going to have some adversity,'' he said with a shrug. ''We don't have that many tornadoes.''
The drought plays a major role in the town's self-image and its economy. It has already doomed this year's crops and is forcing ranchers to sell some of their cattle; without water and grass, cows need more nutrient-rich feed, which is expensive.
On the Sharp Ranch, 15 miles outside town, the cattle were grazing on dirt.
''The protein value is getting down low,'' Dan Sharp, 65, said as Dr. Rusty Murdock, the county's only veterinarian, tested his 22 bulls for their potency. Three were deemed subpar, possibly because of the drought, and Mr. Sharp said he would sell them for slaughter.
''If they can't reproduce, they aren't worth keeping,'' he said. Over the last 15 years, his herd on his 15,000 acres (roughly the size of Manhattan) has dropped to 450 from 580.
Mr. Sharp's wife, Carol, 63, said the drought had ''made everything a lot harder.''
''You live more day-to-day because you don't know what tomorrow is going to bring,'' she said as wind whipped dust across the range and her daughter donned ski goggles.
But the Sharps are committed to ranching. ''The land is like a member of the family,'' Ms. Sharp said. ''You don't disown it if things aren't going right.''
When a community is as dependent on agriculture as this one, the effects of a bad season ripple through the economy. Mr. Axtell, the funeral director, said that with the drop in funerals, all but one flower shop had closed.
Judy Harkins, 63, a beautician, said her customers were scrimping more.
''My little ladies on Social Security, they'll think of some excuse to come in every other week instead of every week,'' Ms. Harkins said.
Many in town dread the day when a construction crew completes a highway bypass around the town. They expect that long-haul truckers, who often stop in town for gas and food, will no longer bother.
John Freeman, a county commissioner, estimated that 3,000 trucks a day passed through now and provided half the county's sales tax revenues. He hopes the county can make up for that loss, several times over, by harnessing the inexhaustible supply of wind. But the permitting process for wind farms takes years, and transmission power lines are not yet built.
Like many other small towns that survived the Dust Bowl, Boise City now seems on the verge of extinction.
''There's no economic growth whatsoever,'' Mr. Freeman lamented. ''It's going to have to be wind energy or we'll die.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the Sharp Ranch, outside Boise City, Okla., above, no grass is in sight. A church in the small town, upper left, made an apt request.
Huston Hanes lived through the Dust Bowl in Cimarron County. Much of Boise City's main street is deserted, with many shuttered storefronts.
 Mr. Hanes showed family photographs from the 1930s. The Rockin' A Cafe, in Boise City, owned by Mark Axtell, left, is the town's social hub. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (69%); COUNTIES (66%); HEALTH CARE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



93 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: A Comedian Laughs All the Way To Dystopia

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- For a guy who just wrote a whole book about the myriad catastrophes that could befall the United States in the next 20 years, Albert Brooks says he's not interested in end-of-the-world scenarios and, more to the point, he's too nervous to contemplate them.
''We've seen those stories where three people are left, and Denzel Washington's wearing tattered clothes,'' a spirited Mr. Brooks said recently at his Beverly Hills office. ''It's a great possibility, but I don't want to imagine it. I try to keep it out of my imagination.''
Yet when he peers into the near future in his comic debut novel, ''2030: The Real Story of What Happens to America,'' which St. Martin's Press will release next Tuesday, Mr. Brooks, the comedian and filmmaker, doesn't necessarily find a lot to laugh about. 
The good news is that cancer has been cured; the bad news is that this and other innovations have prolonged people's lives to untenable lengths, draining the resources of a broke and broken United States, and polarizing relations between the young and the old, and between the merely old and the superannuated. With the economy and the American dream in shambles, a huge earthquake hits Los Angeles, testing the administration of the country's first Jewish president.
(''Half-Jewish,'' Mr. Brooks said. ''It's a big deal.'')
Despite what would seem a deeply discouraging forecast, Mr. Brooks said that ''2030'' offered an uplifting message that camaraderie and humanity prevail in dystopian situations.
While ''2030'' offers a perspective that is dramatically wider than in any of Mr. Brooks's movies -- even his post-mortem fantasy ''Defending Your Life'' -- it demonstrates an underlying truth about his comedy: succeeding as a satirist means always predicting, and being prepared for, disaster, and making light of the human condition requires being deeply attuned to its dark potential.
''I would say if there's a heaven, there's probably no comedy up there,'' Mr. Brooks said. ''Comedy and bliss? You don't see a lot of funny Buddhists.''
At 63, Mr. Brooks is still regarded by his peers as a pioneering if slightly enigmatic humorist. In the short films he created for the first season of ''Saturday Night Live,'' and later in ''Real Life'' and ''Modern Romance'' and other features he wrote, directed and starred in, ''Albert is almost a cousin to Cassavetes,'' said James L. Brooks (they are not related), who created the role of the lovelorn television reporter Aaron Altman in ''Broadcast News'' specifically for him.
He added: ''They are all his own, beginning to end. Everything minutely done, everything without any concession to the establishment.''
Judd Apatow, the writer and director of ''Knocked Up'' and ''Funny People,'' said he admired Albert Brooks for preserving his autonomy while managing to keep a low profile.
''It's rare to bump into him at a party,'' Mr. Apatow said. ''And as a result he's cherished. He's one of the few people that there's still some mystery with him, because he isn't a Hollywood guy.''
Mr. Brooks said that ''2030'' resulted partly from the frustrations he has felt at the limitations put on him by the low budgets of his movies. ''Writing anything you can think about?'' he said. ''For a screenwriter, that feels illegal.''
Presented with the infinite canvas of a novel, Mr. Brooks conjured up characters like Brad Miller, a lonely Angeleno confined to a makeshift camp inside the Rose Bowl after the devastating earthquake; Kathy Bernard, a young woman who is hobbled by financial obligations and drifts among dangerous gangs; and Matthew Bernstein, the half-Jewish American president simultaneously managing the needs of the nation and a mother on life support.
While the nation crumbles, the prose of ''2030'' is enlivened with light, Brooksian touches, in the interior monologue of a scientist wondering why he was asked to create a female version of Viagra (''Every woman he ever knew could go all night, have a bowl of cereal, and go for another afternoon''), or an elderly man who fears fatal repercussions for trying a new restaurant on the wrong side of town. (''Better to have the same old thing and not be stabbed.'')
But the jokes cannot disguise their author's sincere feelings that America is due for a reckoning that he and his fellow baby boomers helped bring about. ''I'm part of the generation that has been taking without consequence since they were born,'' said Mr. Brooks, without quite apologizing for his lifelong sense of entitlement. (''I wanted the new toy just like any other kid,'' he said. ''I bet even Gandhi, at 8 years old, wanted a train.'')
Elizabeth Beier, Mr. Brooks's editor at St. Martin's, said that with most celebrity projects she is offered, people come ''with a great idea and see if they have your interest, and then try to flesh it out, and get it finished.'' That Mr. Brooks had already written substantial portions of ''2030'' before it was pitched to her, she said, was ''a sign of complete seriousness of purpose.''
Critics have noted a similar intensity in Mr. Brooks's prose. Reviewing ''2030'' for The New York Times, Janet Maslin wrote that it was ''as purposeful as it is funny'' and called it ''escapism about problems we cannot escape.''
A degree of neurosis has always been central to Mr. Brooks's comic persona. Andrew Stanton, a writer and director of the 2003 Disney-Pixar animated comedy ''Finding Nemo,'' said he cast Mr. Brooks as the voice of Marlin, the fearful clownfish seeking his missing son, because ''it's a very short list of people that can make worrying and fretting appealing, and he's high up on that list.''
But even in films like his 1985 farce, ''Lost in America,'' Mr. Brooks said he has found humor in scenarios that are more miserable than audiences might realize. Behind its narrative of a yuppie couple who fail in their quest to quit their jobs and travel the country in a motor home was ''the most cleverly disguised defeatist story one could write,'' he said.
If, as Mr. Brooks says, his daily thoughts are darker than he lets on in ''2030,'' it is hard for him to pinpoint where that darkness comes from. His view of life may have been forged by seeing his father, the comedian Harry Einstein, die when he was 11, or from reading John Hersey's ''Hiroshima'' as a child, or by the fifth-grade teacher who warned him that Los Angeles was becoming overpopulated.
In person, Mr. Brooks hardly seems gloomy or depressed; he is more like a 21st-century upgrade on the stereotypical Jewish parent, whether he is encouraging a reporter to start a family with his wife or referring to his latest technological obsession as ''the Netflix streaming.''
He can become feverishly passionate when he talks about, say, the causes of the recent global financial crisis. But a calm washes over him when he talks about his marriage to his wife, Kimberly, an artist, or their children, Jacob, 12, and Claire, 11, who he says have helped him learn to live in the moment.
As a performer, Mr. Brooks continues to work regularly in other people's movies, and his coming roles include a ruthless villain in Nicolas Winding Refn's thriller ''Drive'' and the father of Paul Rudd's character in a semi-sequel to ''Knocked Up'' that Mr. Apatow will film this summer.
He remains on the lookout for things that stimulate -- or irritate -- him enough to compel him to write for himself. ''As long as I have antennae, I want to use them,'' he said. ''But now that I get the Netflix, I don't need the antennae.''
So far, though, Netflix has mostly been Mr. Brooks's introduction to Leni Riefenstahl's Nazi propaganda film ''Triumph of the Will,'' which of course he finds morbidly fascinating.
''Each time my wife came in the bedroom,'' Mr. Brooks recalled, ''she says, 'You're watching this again?' I'm not watching the whole thing again. This is another rally. Yeah, I memorized every line.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Albert Brooks(C1)
 Albert Brooks, the comedian and filmmaker -- and now novelist -- in Beverly Hills, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MISHA ERWITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMOROUS LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%); FILM (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); RELIGION (64%); EARTHQUAKES (50%)

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: 2030 (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



94 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sues Big Bank Over Loan Practices

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt and Louise Story from New York.

 BODY:
The United States government sued Deutsche Bank on Tuesday, accusing it of lying about the quality of home loans it handled under a government program and demanding that the bank repay hundreds of millions of dollars of losses on those loans.
The mortgages, guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration, are expected to cost the government more than $1 billion. They came from loans issued by a company called MortgageIT, which Deutsche acquired in 2007. 
The F.H.A. said it discovered the fraud in 2009, while reviewing its overall portfolio. At the time, loans were defaulting at record levels and worries were growing about the ultimate cost to taxpayers. Since the financial crisis, the F.H.A. has broadened its role in the housing market and now backs about one-third of all new mortgages, up from just 5 percent a few years ago. In the last couple of years, the F.H.A. has also overhauled its processes to improve quality control, and loans made more recently are performing better.
Officials from the Justice Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development said the lawsuit should serve as a warning to other lenders that are issuing loans using a government guarantee. At a news conference on Tuesday, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, Preet Bharara, said Deutsche ''cannot get away with lies and recklessness.'' He said there was not evidence to justify a criminal complaint and declined to say whether there would be more cases claiming F.H.A. fraud.
In an interview, Helen R. Kanovsky, the general counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, said that Deutsche Bank was an outlier and that most loan originators had not had such high incidences of fraud.
Responding to the government's case, filed in Federal District Court in New York, the bank issued a statement saying it was not involved in most of the 39,000 loans cited in the complaint. Almost 90 percent were issued before the bank acquired MortgageIT, a real estate investment trust, the bank said. At the time of its acquisition, MortgageIT had been operating under H.U.D. oversight for nearly a decade, the bank said.
''We believe the claims against MortgageIT and Deutsche Bank are unreasonable and unfair, and we intend to defend against the action vigorously,'' the bank statement said.
Of the MortgageIT loans backed by the F.H.A. from 1999 to 2009, worth $5 billion in total, about one-third have defaulted, according to the government's complaint against the bank. MortgageIT was not a large F.H.A. partner -- it ranked 33rd by volume at the end of 2008 -- and it stopped issuing government-backed loans in 2009.
The F.H.A. referred the problems it spotted with MortgageIT to the Justice Department because it could not bring its own action once the company stopped issuing loans. The case was pursued by a civil fraud unit that Mr. Bharara set up about a year ago.
The complaint against Deutsche Bank stands out because the government has filed relatively few cases against big banks related to the financial crisis. Its actions have mainly been civil complaints, as was the one against Deutsche Bank. The government has found it difficult to prove intent to defraud, a requirement for a criminal case, and investigators got off to a slow start in building possible cases during the crisis because regulators were primarily focused on stabilizing the system. The Justice Department has generally had more success prosecuting small mortgage brokers and borrowers for mortgage fraud than it has had in pursuing major financial institutions.
The Deutsche suit does not name any individual bank employees. And it is not centered on the subprime loans that kicked off the housing collapse.
Deutsche was, however, a large player in the subprime market, and mortgage bonds created by the bank sit in many investors' portfolios. Its mortgage bundling behavior was outlined in a recent report issued by the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.
The Deutsche loans that were backed by the F.H.A. jumped out during the portfoliowide review of mortgages, said Ms. Kanovsky. ''The real harm to us was clear,'' she said.
MortgageIT had been warned by the F.H.A. for years, Ms. Kanovsky said, long before Deutsche bought it. Workers there frequently told the government that they were taking care of the problems, ''all of which turned out to be not true.''
The problems at MortgageIT are rooted in the same sort of behavior that plagued the overall lending market -- bankers did not take enough care to ensure the quality of their mortgages because they could resell the loans to private investors. Deutsche, the complaint said, had ''powerful financial incentives to invest resources into generating as many F.H.A.-insured mortgages as quickly as possible for resale to investors.''
MortgageIT was qualified by H.U.D. to issue mortgages guaranteed by the F.H.A. MortgageIT and Deutsche filed annual certifications that the loans they issued complied with H.U.D. rules. The complaint says the bank had a fiduciary duty to make correct representations to the government.
Yet, the complaint says, Deutsche ''repeatedly lied to H.U.D. to obtain and maintain MortgageIT's direct endorsement lender status.'' In particular, the complaint said Deutsche did not monitor how often home owners defaulted on their mortgages immediately after receiving the loans.
Trouble was apparent at MortgageIT as early as 2003, according to the complaint. When a HUD audit revealed that the company had not met quality control levels, the company assured the government that it had altered its practices to comply. But it had not, the complaint says. There were several other instances where the company made similar false statements about its quality control unit, which was chronically understaffed, the complaint says.
MortgageIT, based in New York even before the Deutsche acquisition, once had over 2,000 employees, mortgage loan offices across the country and licenses to issue loans in all 50 states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LAWYERS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); QUALITY CONTROL (67%); CITIES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (66%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (85%); DBK (FRA) (85%); DBK (BIT) (85%); DBETN (JSE) (85%); DBA (ASX) (85%); DB (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



95 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Factory Orders Rose in March for 5th Month

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Businesses increased orders for industrial machinery, computers and autos in March, the government said Tuesday, lifting factory orders for the fifth consecutive month.
The Commerce Department said that factory orders rose 3 percent in March after a 0.7 percent increase in February. A crucial category that signaled business investment plans rose 4.1 percent in the month after a small increase in February and a big decline in January. Excluding the volatile transportation sector, orders rose 2.6 percent. 
The March increase pushed total orders to $462.9 billion, up 31.2 percent from the recession low hit in March 2009. Analysts noted that the March increase was partly driven by higher oil prices that increased the costs of petroleum products.
But the report also supported evidence that manufacturing has been one of the strongest sectors of the economy since the recession ended nearly two years ago. On Monday, the Institute for Supply Management reported that manufacturing activity rose for a 21st straight month in April.
Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, said the solid March increase in factory orders showed the January-March quarter ended with momentum, an encouraging sign for future economic growth.
A weak dollar is making American exports cheaper overseas and tax cuts are encouraging investment in capital goods.
For March, orders for durable goods -- items expected to last at least three years -- rose 2.9 percent. That was slightly better than a preliminary estimate the government reported last week.
Demand for nondurable goods rose 3.1 percent. Petroleum products increased 7.8 percent, mostly because of higher prices.
Orders for transportation rose 6.2 percent. Demand for autos increased 4 percent, nearly rise in February. Orders for commercial aircraft rose 0.9 percent after much bigger increases in the previous two months.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Factory Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (97%); FACTORY ORDERS (97%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); RECESSION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); US DOLLAR (74%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (72%); EXPORT TRADE (66%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



96 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED, CHRIS V. NICHOLSON and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
NO WORRIES The Nasdaq OMX Group and the IntercontinentalExchange said on Monday they intended to go directly to NYSE Euronext shareholders to win over the exchange operator, but the Big Board's chief executive said he wasn't worried. 
Duncan L. Niederauer, left, NYSE Euronext's chief executive, said that his company's limited response to Nasdaq and ICE's announcement was because it contained little new information. ''A lot of it was expected,'' he said. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
FUND-RAISING The Man Group said on Tuesday that it had raised $1.5 billion for a new hedge fund in Japan.
The fund-raising was more than triple what the market had expected, and is the firm's largest since the financial crisis. The fund, Nomura Global Trend, created in a partnership with the Japanese investment bank Nomura, focuses on futures in currencies, commodities and fixed income. CHRIS V. NICHOLSON
IN TREATMENT Theodore J. Forstmann, below, one of Wall Street's original leveraged buyout barons, has been told he has a malignant brain tumor, according to a person close to him.
Mr. Forstmann, the chairman of the talent agency IMG and the co-founder of Forstmann Little, recently underwent treatment at the Mayo Clinic, said this person, who spoke on condition of anonymity. In a statement, a spokesman confirmed Mr. Forstmann was ''dealing with some serious personal health issues.'' ANDREW ROSS SORKIN
COMMON GROUND Getting private equity titans to agree on anything is often difficult. But at the Milken Institute Global Conference 2011 in Beverly Hills, Calif., four big names in the industry sang the praises of China.
The four executives -- David Rubenstein of the Carlyle Group, Jonathan Nelson of Providence Equity Partners, David Bonderman of TPG Capital and Leon Black of Apollo Global Management -- discussed shared opportunities in China as the private equity industry recovered from the financial crisis. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); TRENDS (68%); CANCER (67%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); BRAIN CANCER (52%)

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (58%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (58%); MAN GROUP PLC (57%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (54%); TPG CAPITAL LP (54%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (55%)

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); NYX (PAR) (58%); NYX (NYSE) (58%); ICE (NYSE) (58%); EMG (LSE) (57%); CG (NASDAQ) (56%); APO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: THEODORE FORSTMANN (77%); DUNCAN L NIEDERAUER (58%); DAVID BONDERMAN (57%); LEON BLACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) CHINA (90%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



97 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Mets Thank Troops In a Meaningful Setting

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The fastest feet in the ballpark Tuesday night did not belong to Jose Reyes, who was on base all six times, but rather to Steve Castleton, a volunteer with the U.S.O., distributing tickets to service members.
In a tasteful gesture to American troops in the wake of the mission against Osama bin Laden on Sunday night, the Mets' management decided Monday morning to invite military personnel to see Tuesday's game against the Giants.
''Four thousand tickets in 36 hours,'' said Castleton, who has two sons and a daughter-in-law on active duty, often in combat. He serves by donating time and considerable energy to helping military people enjoy themselves in their off-hours. 
Through his efforts, there was a modest military presence in the ballpark, which was still fairly desolate, despite the ultimate announced attendance of 32,288 for a game the Mets lost, 7-6, in 10 innings. The Mets and most other teams in baseball not drawing well because of the weather, the economy and perhaps the bloated prices of the luxury-box age.
Still, the 4,000 tickets were a nice touch, and so was the fact that the Mets had no intention of alluding to the daring mission that took out the nihilist responsible for the deaths of nearly 3,000 people on Sept. 11, 2001.
''We just want to say thank you,'' said David Howard, the Mets' executive vice president and general counsel, referring obliquely to what he called ''the events of Sunday night.''
In addition to the military presence, it was also Asian Heritage Night, with Chinese dancers performing in the outfield before the game and a few fans in Indian saris spotted in the parking lot -- a perfect potpourri for the ethnic borough of Queens.
The Mets did not intend to whip anybody into a patriotic mood akin to the spontaneous rally of Sunday night after Bin Laden's death was announced, when young people swarmed to Lafayette Park outside the White House, climbing trees, boosting friends on their shoulders, waving flags and chanting ''U.S.A.!,'' the ubiquitous response to gold medals at the Olympics.
In Philadelphia, in a tie game meandering past midnight, fans chanted ''U.S.A.!'' It mystified the players for a while, but they caught on.
The Mets have been in the middle of responses to the attacks of 9/11. In 2001, the Mets went back to work in a subdued Pittsburgh, and the first game back in New York was at funky old Shea Stadium. New Yorkers were starting to make noise again, particularly when Mike Piazza's home run won the game.
Bravado was still needed for the first World Series game in the Bronx late that October, and President George W. Bush's swagger to the mound and his hard strike for the ceremonial first ball was a perfect body-language moment.
Over the years, the legacy of 9/11 became a patriotic ritual before the home half of the seventh at Yankee Stadium -- long enough to freeze relief pitchers who had already warmed up.
To their credit, the Mets played it low-key Tuesday, as five service members in uniform threw out the first ball. Greg and Valerie Jensen of Ridgefield, Conn., who had paid $10,000 in an auction to throw out the ball, graciously deferred to another night. And here and there, some military uniforms were seen.
Marine Sgt. Elizabeth Quinones sang ''God Bless America'' during the traditional stretch, and the fans cheered.
It is a fact that the Mets have extra tickets. Attendance is down all over the majors, and even the Giants, the World Series champions, are not a big draw on the road. The Mets have a history with the military. Fred Wilpon helped found 'Welcome Back Veterans, which provides services for returning military members and their families. The tickets were available -- and the Mets put the tickets in the hand of Castleton, who runs an Internet consulting company, in West Islip on Long Island.
''This is a wonderful country,'' said Castleton, who never served in the military and is proud of his three family members who do. He was raving about the mission in Pakistan. ''Kudos to the Seals for having the guts to do it, and kudos to President Obama for having the guts to order it,'' he said. ''And I'm a Republican,'' he added.
Castleton said one of his favorite sights at U.S.O. functions is Iraq veterans looking up to Vietnam veterans. ''They revere them,'' he said. As Johnny Cash put it in his classic song ''Drive On'':
''He said I think my country got a little off track
It took 'em twenty-five years to welcome me back.''
Castleton and the U.S.O. and the Mets found one way to welcome troops back.
But tickets are not everything. Families are under terrible stress without an adequate support system, and veterans often have to virtually beg for care when they come home damaged in body and mind.
Not long after the strike against Bin Laden, an editorial in The New York Times discussed a shortages of judges, a result of political squabbling over appointments and said, ''The bureaucratic logjam for veterans pursuing benefit claims has gotten so huge that judges -- in Dickensian fashion -- are having to work nights and weekends as they decide more than 600 cases each annually.'' The first lady, Michelle Obama, has spoken up for more support for the families of veterans.
A trip to the ballpark -- and Olympic-style chants over the death of a murderer -- are nice, as far as they go. They are not quite the same as a grateful nation remembering how to take care of its own.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the armed forces threw out ceremonial first pitches at Citi Field on Tuesday before the Mets lost to the Giants, 7-6, in 10 innings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); BASEBALL (78%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); LAWYERS (68%); WEATHER (67%); SPORTS AWARDS (65%); DANCERS (63%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



98 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Good Feeling Gone, In Congress, Anyway

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Whatever sense of unity the nation might have felt after the killing of Osama bin Laden, it did not extend to the pressing domestic policy issues that divide Congressional Republicans and Democrats, who returned to work in earnest Tuesday.
Lawmakers were quickly back to arguing over economic and health care policy, trading blame for high gasoline prices and positioning themselves for the fight over raising the federal debt limit. The Senate found itself at multiple impasses over a small-business bill and judicial confirmations. 
There was even division within Congress over whether to pass a resolution recognizing the military and intelligence operatives who pulled off the strike on Bin Laden. Members of the Senate, standing formally at their desks, voted 97 to 0 to approve a measure commending ''the men and women of the United States armed forces and the United States intelligence community for the tremendous commitment, perseverance, professionalism and sacrifice they displayed in bringing Osama bin Laden to justice.''
House Republicans, though, citing new rules against such purely honorary acts, declined to follow suit.
The House majority did forge ahead with its latest bill to dismantle a piece of the health care overhaul, with Speaker John A. Boehner saying Republicans were taking aim at health care ''slush funds.''
Mr. Boehner, who has been supportive of President Obama's handling of the Bin Laden assault, said Tuesday that he saw no dissonance between backing the president on his terrorism policies and differing with him so strongly on the domestic matters.
''You are talking about apples and oranges here,'' said Mr. Boehner, who noted that he had twice congratulated Mr. Obama on the Bin Laden operation. ''On other issues, we might not see as closely, as eye to eye on.''
Across the Rotunda, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, was preparing to yank a long-stalled small-business bill from the floor. He accused Republicans of undermining job creation and said he wished the national mood that followed the killing of Bin Laden could have some staying power and lead to more Congressional comity.
''There are many other challenges ahead that we need to work together to find solutions -- cutting the deficit, bringing down gas prices, approving our judges, getting nominations approved,'' Mr. Reid said. ''As we move forward, I hope that the spirit of unity we're seeing today helps us come together to solve these challenges.''
But Senate Republicans rolled out their own jobs agenda and took shots at the Obama administration over what they described as undue restrictions on business.
''This excessive regulation is really seriously inhibiting our effort to get out of this economic recession and create jobs,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.
As its first order of major legislative business after the Bin Laden killing, the House returned to repealing aspects of the health care overhaul. Republicans have voted repeatedly to repeal the entire health care act and tucked aspects of repeal into other bills.
On Tuesday, after a long debate, the House voted 238 to 183 to eliminate mandatory financing to set up health benefit exchanges under the health care law. It began debate on another bill to be voted on Wednesday that would kill mandatory financing for school-based health center construction. Neither bill is expected to pass in the Senate.
''This is another piece of legislation that is going nowhere,'' Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, fumed about the latest attempt to dismantle the 2010 health care law.
But Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, said Republicans would ''keep revisiting this issue until we get every single piece of this bill off the books.''
On Wednesday, the House is scheduled to vote on another contentious measure that seeks to prohibit federal money from being used for any health insurance plan that includes coverage of abortion, going beyond current federal law prohibiting the use of federal funds for abortion services. The bill would also eliminate tax breaks for private employers who provide health coverage if their health care plans offer abortion services, and forbid women who use a flexible spending plan to use pretax dollars for abortions.
Later in the week, House members are set to vote on legislation that would try to force the Obama administration to open up more coastal waters to offshore oil and gas production and expedite the permitting process. Senate Democrats intend to counter with proposals for eliminating tax breaks for major oil companies.
And those fights are just a prelude to the coming debate over the budget and debt limit as the two parties and the White House lock horns again over spending and various proposals to force a reduction in deficit spending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, criticized the Obama administration's ''excessive regulation'' of business.
 Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic leader, accused Republicans of undermining job creation because of stalled legislation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); TERRORISM (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEBT CEILING (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ESPIONAGE (75%); APPROVALS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (77%); JOHN BOEHNER (77%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



99 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: City's Next Taxi: A Nissan Van Short on Looks, Perhaps, but Full of Comforts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The next New York City taxicab will have airplane-style reading lights, passenger air bags, and a so-called low-annoyance horn, engineered to stifle flagrant honkers. The back seat even has more leg room than the old couch-on-wheels Checker cab.
But can a minivan win over New York? 
The Nissan NV200, a bulky four-door van that seems more soccer mom than Travis Bickle, will become the all-but-exclusive vehicle of the city's taxi fleet, the Bloomberg administration said on Tuesday, in the culmination of a contest of several years to redesign a city icon.
The minivan has a traditional, unstylish look, which even Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg conceded resembles a family car. Asked on Tuesday if the car had a suburban feel, the mayor smiled and replied, ''That's probably true.''
But the interior features, designed specifically for New York taxi use, promise comforts geared toward a more urban creature: power outlets to plug in phones and laptops; a transparent roof for city views; exterior lights that warn cyclists and pedestrians about opening doors; and custom climate controls for each seat.
Even honking, that great urban scourge, could be on the way out. Besides the low-intensity horn, the entire cab will be illuminated, outside and in, whenever its horn sounds, the better to help police track down noisy cabbies.
The first batch of the vans -- a customized version of the ones now sold in Asia and Europe -- is expected to appear by the end of 2013. Cab owners will be required to buy the Nissan vans when their existing vehicles are due for replacement.
By the end of the decade, almost every yellow cab in the city -- there are currently about 13,000 -- is expected to be a Nissan, the first time a foreign manufacturer has dominated the taxi fleet since the original red French Darracq cabs arrived in 1907.
The city announced its Taxi of Tomorrow competition in 2007 as a way to create a taxi better suited to its passengers. The prize: an exclusive 10-year contract worth an estimated $1 billion in sales.
The Nissan model, which will be built in Mexico and eventually be capable of running on an electric-only engine, beat out contenders from Karsan, a Turkish company that submitted a stylish, high-concept design, and Ford, maker of the fleet's current mainstay, the macho Crown Victoria, which Ford plans to discontinue this year.
There were grumblings about the city's selection even before the official announcement. Advocates for the disabled lamented the Nissan's lack of options for wheelchair users, while supporters of Karsan, which pledged to build its cabs in Brooklyn, said the city had ignored a chance to invest in the local economy.
A spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg said that the holders of medallions for cabs intended for the disabled would still be allowed to buy specially designed cabs fitted for wheelchairs.
In a letter, the public advocate, Bill de Blasio, asked the city comptroller, John C. Liu, to review the taxi competition for potential conflicts of interest. And Micah Z. Kellner, a state assemblyman who co-signed the letter, has filed a complaint with the Justice Department to see whether the city's choice violated the Americans With Disabilities Act.
''Who knew that the Taxi of Tomorrow was the delivery van of yesterday?'' Mr. Kellner wrote in a statement. ''Just because you paint a van yellow doesn't make it a taxi.''
But Mr. Bloomberg, at a news conference on Tuesday announcing the selection, called Nissan's bid ''far and away the best,'' and said the city chose the manufacturer that could provide the most reliable vehicle ''that meets our city's very peculiar needs.''
The mayor added that he was skeptical about the feasibility of Karsan's proposal for a Brooklyn taxi factory. ''I don't think between now and two years from now we could site a new school, much less a new industrial plant,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
The custom version of the Nissan van has not yet been built, but company representatives said they expected to present a prototype in the next few months. The van holds a maximum of four passengers -- three in the back and one in the front.
Its seats are coated to resist stains and bacteria, and the floors are equipped with lights to ease the recovery of purses and briefcases on a late-night ride. The charging station includes a regular outlet and two USB ports. Sliding doors will prevent ''dooring'' of cyclists and passing cars.
The Nissan could be a throwback to the earlier days, when passenger-controlled radios came standard in spacious cabs like the DeSoto Skyview.
''Until the 1970s, cabs weren't bad,'' said Graham Hodges, a taxi historian and former cabby. ''They were good and roomy cars; they would fit five people easily. People didn't complain about them being nasty and unpleasant.''
The city appears to be aiming for that earlier era. ''Cabs today do not inspire the same type of affection and customer loyalty that the Checker did,'' David S. Yassky, the chairman of the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission, said on Tuesday. ''The goal in this process was to get us a taxi that people will talk about 20 years from now the way they talk about the Checker today.''
So can a Nissan van attract a similar cult? Mr. Bloomberg, asked about the romance of the taxicab at the news conference, turned to look at an image of the van projected on a large screen.
''Looks romantic to me,'' the mayor said, with a ''What can you do?'' tone, as the room erupted in laughter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of the New York City taxi designed by Nissan.
Nissan America's chairman, Carlos Tavares, spoke after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg about the winning taxi entry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A26) DRAWINGS: 1900 to 1980s: DARRACQ, 1900s - FORD, 1930s: Early Years: The first taxicab with a meter was the French-built Darracq. Sixty-five of them hit the streets in 1907.
DeSOTO SKYVIEW, 1940s - CHECKER, 1950s: Roomy: Purpose-built taxicabs like the DeSoto Skyview and various Checkers dominated the business for several decades.
CHECKER, 1960s - DODGE CORONET, 1970s: Changing: Converted sedans like the Dodge Coronet and Chevrolet Caprice became the norm after the Checkers began to disappear.
CHEVROLET CAPRICE, 1980s - PEUGEOT 505, 1980s: The 1980s: Peugeot made a splash in the 1980s when more than 850 high-mileage diesels hit the streets of the city.
1980s to 2013: FORD CROWN VICTORIA, 1980s CROWN VICTORIA, 1990s: Ubiquitous: The Ford Crown Victoria has been the dominant vehicle in the city's taxi fleet for many years.
TOYOTA PRIUS, 2000s- FORD ESCAPE, 2000s: Hybrid: The city tried to force owners to adopt high-mileage cars like the hybrid Prius, but the courts ended the effort.
CHEVROLET UPLANDER, 2000s - LEXUS LX, 2000s: Minivans: They became more common after the city approved the Toyota Sienna for medallion use in 2003.
 TOYOTA SIENNA, 2000s - NISSAN NV200, 2013: New Generation: The Nissan NV200 won the city's Taxi of Tomorrow competition and will offer passenger air bags, reading lights and power outlets.(A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MINIVANS (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); CYCLING (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (74%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (77%); EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



100 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: A Mission Not Yet Fulfilled

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
It's obviously been a good week for the Obama administration. But it comes at a dangerous time, for both the administration and the economy. The excitement over tracking down Osama bin Laden could end up making the president and his advisers less panicked over the state of the economy. And they should be a little panicked.
For the second straight year, the recovery seems to be at risk of stalling. The economy grew at an annual rate of only 1.8 percent last quarter -- eerily similar to the 1.7 percent growth last spring, just when job growth started slowing down. Fully 80 percent of people say the economy is in fairly bad or very bad shape, according to a New York Times/CBS Poll last month. More people say it's getting worse than getting better, the opposite of a few months ago. 
White House advisers and Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, argue that the bad news is a merely a blip caused by bad weather, a temporary cut in military purchases and other one-time factors. They may be right, too. Stock market investors certainly share their optimism: the Standard & Poor's 500 index is near a postrecession high.
But both Wall Street and Washington were also optimistic around this time last year -- too optimistic. The unfortunate truth is that the recoveries from financial crises have a habit of disappointing.
Crises do so much damage that they leave businesses and households predisposed to believe the worst and to pull back at the first hint of economic weakness. Households are slow to resume spending. Banks are slow to lend, especially to small businesses. Companies are slow to hire.
All this is why the typical financial crisis has caused unemployment to rise for almost five years, according to historical work by the economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff. We are well ahead of that timetable, thanks to aggressive action by the Fed, the Obama administration and, in its final months, the Bush administration. But our working assumption should be that this recovery will remain at risk for a long time.
If it stalls out for a second year in a row, the consequences could be particularly bad. The specter of a ''lost decade,'' like Japan's, would become commonplace. Pessimism would feed yet more hesitation from businesses and households. For Mr. Obama himself, of course, the raid in Abbottabad could become a version of President George H. W. Bush's Gulf War: the foreign policy triumph that turned into an electoral footnote.
I suspect that Mr. Obama's advisers have remained publicly optimistic over the last few months because they consider optimism to be one of the few economic tools they have left. The sensible step for Congress would be to pair long-term deficit reduction with a mix of short-term tax cuts and aid to states, whose budget cuts are leading to layoffs. But Congress hasn't shown itself capable of separating the short term and long term. So the odds of new legislation to help the economy anytime soon are roughly nil.
Even so, there are still two steps the White House can take, and now is the time to start planning them. If policy makers wait to take action until the recovery has undeniably stalled -- as they did last year -- they will have waited too long.
The first step is to remember the economy's vulnerability when negotiating a deal over the debt ceiling. Congress and the administration have until August to increase the federal government's authority to borrow money, and Republican leaders say they will insist on spending cuts as part of any agreement.
There are still plenty of sensible cuts for the two parties to make. Tax breaks (which many economists consider a form of spending) for both businesses and individuals can be reduced. Military spending, which has risen more than 70 percent in inflation-adjusted terms over the past decade, can be cut, too. Many social programs, meanwhile, don't focus enough on outcomes and waste money in the process.
But it would be folly to start making these cuts immediately and potentially put people out of work. Last month's deal to avert a government shutdown did a good job of minimizing the number of cuts that would affect the economy this year. Policy makers would be wise to repeat the pattern in the debt ceiling talks, making more future cuts and fewer immediate ones.
The second step involves the only way in which I can imagine Congress taking action to help the economy.
At the end of this year, about $225 billion of temporary tax cuts and emergency jobless benefits are scheduled to expire. These provisions were part of the compromise bill in last year's lame-duck Congressional session that also extended the Bush tax cuts. The Bush tax cuts were extended through 2012, however, while the other provisions -- including a payroll tax cut for households and a tax cut for expanding businesses -- expire at the end of 2011.
Given the legitimate concern about the deficit, many members of Congress will want to let these temporary tax cuts lapse. But if the economy remains weak, continuing them for one more year will make sense.
Their economic impact is not small. Moody's Analytics estimated that the economy would have 1.1 million more jobs at the end of 2012 if the tax cuts and jobless benefits were extended. Yet their impact on the long-term debt is minimal. Tiny changes in Medicare could more than pay a one-time, $225 billion bill.
Somewhere -- in the White House or in the halls of Congress -- somebody should be coming up with a plan to sell an extension of these measures. Persuading a financially battered public that it deserves another short-term tax cut isn't likely to be too difficult.
Above all, Washington should avoid the temptation to get giddy about any one piece of economic good news. Those bits of encouraging news will happen. We may even get one on Friday, when the Labor Department reports on job growth in April.
The big lesson of financial crises is that too much optimism exacts a steep cost. You can make a case that the long hunt for Osama bin Laden offers the same lesson. A tough job is not done until it is undeniably done.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The American public believes gas prices are one of the most important problems facing the country. Financial crises leave households predisposed to believe the worst. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); DESERT STORM (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); TAX LAW (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



101 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: The Night Bin Laden Was Hunted Down

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Behind the Hunt for Bin Laden'' (front page, May 3):
What may turn out to be even more important than the powerful symbolism of Osama bin Laden's death is the trove of documents that the commandos seized at Bin Laden's compound.
As his operations center, the compound probably contained records, hard drives and notebooks filled with information about Al Qaeda's operatives and their whereabouts, bank accounts and so forth. The Central Intelligence Agency may now have names and numbers with which it can dismember the organization after having cut its head off.
Clearly, that's one of the reasons the United States went in with commandos as opposed to an airstrike. Apart from confirming Bin Laden's presence, we wanted his records. 
Brilliant planning, brilliant execution!
JOE WIEDER Brooklyn, May 3, 2011
To the Editor:
The information gained from years of interrogations at Guantanamo Bay, coupled with dogged intelligence work, led to Osama bin Laden. Gratitude is owed to President George W. Bush for staying the course in face of severe opposition. I commend President Obama for his wisdom in continuing the Bush strategy.
JOSEPH A. ASCOLI Old Bridge, N.J., May 3, 2011
To the Editor:
Your superb report ''Behind the Hunt for Bin Laden'' leaves key questions unanswered. Jubilation over the death of the most hunted mass murderer is understandable, but was it really justifiable self-defense, or was it premeditated illegal assassination?
The Nuremberg trials earned worldwide respect by giving Hitler's worst henchmen a fair trial so that truth would be revealed and justice under law would prevail. Secret nonjudicial decisions based on political or military considerations undermine democracy. The public is entitled to know the complete truth.
BENJAMIN B. FERENCZ New Rochelle, N.Y., May 3, 2011
The writer was a prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials.
To the Editor:
President Obama took a bold step in ordering the operation against Osama bin Laden.
Bin Laden's compound was on the outskirts of Abbottabad, a picturesque city about 35 miles from Islamabad that is home to the country's largest military academy. Thus it is unfathomable that the Pakistani military and intelligence service didn't know that the No. 1 terrorist in the world was residing comfortably in a palatial compound there.
As a Pakistani-American, I salute President Obama for showing courage and strength. Perhaps now he won't be criticized as being ''weak.'' Other Pakistani-Americans and I are celebrating the demise of the terrorist who hijacked Islam, killed thousands of innocent people and tarnished the image of Muslims across the world. We are truly rejoicing.
ANILA ALI Irvine, Calif., May 3, 2011
To the Editor:
While elated over the killing of Osama bin Laden, I can't help observing that his death would likely have occurred years earlier if the Bush administration hadn't diverted military and intelligence resources from seeking to capture or kill him to initiating the senseless war in Iraq, which did not pose the danger to us that Bin Laden did.
DAN HARRISON Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., May 3, 2011
To the Editor:
We must learn the lessons of the killing of Osama bin Laden. The information that led to it was obtained from harsh C.I.A. interrogations in foreign prisons and from detainees at Guantanamo Bay, followed by electronic surveillance and wiretapping. Finally the United States undertook a totally unilateral military action in a foreign nation without prior notification of that nation. In other words, everything that is anathema to the left.
And the result is not that we have become the enemy or lost our moral bearings. The result is justice for the thousands of innocent dead of 9/11 and previous attacks, and a safer, freer world.
So, we can cling to outdated political dogma, or we can serve justice and protect innocent lives. President Obama wisely chose the second course.
MICHAEL BURKE Bronx, May 3, 2011
The writer's brother, Capt. William F. Burke Jr., a firefighter, died at the World Trade Center on 9/11.
To the Editor:
It's unfortunate that the code name the government chose to use for Osama bin Laden was Geronimo, the name of the legendary leader of the Apaches. Over a century after Geronimo's death, it's as if the United States military views itself as still fighting the Indians. Surely, a more appropriate name could have been chosen.
FARLEY P. KATZ San Antonio, May 3, 2011
To the Editor:
Kudos to the Navy Seals and C.I.A. operatives who risked their lives and to all involved for the successful operation that killed Osama bin Laden.
The hunt is over. The terrorist leader responsible for 9/11 has finally been held accountable. For almost 10 long years after his minions stole the breath of life from our loved ones, Bin Laden continued to enjoy life, walking around unpunished for the evil he wrought. His death cannot bring back our loved ones, but it brings some measure of justice.
Bin Laden is gone, but Americans are still vulnerable. Vigilance and cooperation across our security network are just as imperative as ever today because terrorist groups across the globe have embraced Bin Laden's ideology of mass murder, and America is in the bull's-eye.
CAROL ASHLEY Rockville Centre, N.Y., May 3, 2011
The writer is the mother of Janice Ashley, who died at the World Trade Center.
To the Editor:
Re ''Bin Laden's Dead. Al Qaeda's Not,'' by Richard A. Clarke (Op-Ed, May 3):
When the nation erupted in celebration over the death of Osama bin Laden, I felt incredibly uneasy.
It concerns me that despite 10 years of war in the Middle East, we as a nation still lack an understanding of our historical involvement in the Middle East and how that fuels anti-American sentiment. Islamic extremist groups are in part a response to Western interventionist policy, particularly our support of oppressive dictators. Recruitment to such organizations is fueled by poor economic conditions -- much of which is indirectly influenced by our foreign policy.
The United States has a role to play in maintaining good relations with the developing world through positive diplomacy. It remains imperative, now more than ever, that we as a country remember that the world is far more complicated than good and evil, and that the actions we take now will have a profound effect on our relationship with the Arab world in the future.
MILES KELLERMAN Madison, Wis., May 3, 2011
To the Editor:
As a student who saw her college campus explode with joy and patriotism on Sunday night after news of Osama bin Laden's killing, I appreciated ''A Singular Moment, and a Mix of Emotion Stored for a Decade'' (news article, May 3).
Bin Laden was the ''bad man'' looming over our lives, but I believe that our response was due to more complex emotions and understanding. Those of us who were only children in 2001 grew up in a country divided and driven by fear of a terror that was largely abstract to us.
The death of Bin Laden has certainly not vanquished evil. Still, this seems like a real opportunity to re-evaluate America's role in the world -- one that we will inherit, but had little role in shaping.
SARAH SKLAW Brooklyn, May 3, 2011
The writer is a student at Tulane University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAVIER JAEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (86%); ASSASSINATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); SELF DEFENSE (64%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (63%); RELIGION (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (50%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (56%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



102 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: The Myth of Mr. Obama's Weakness: Republicans will have a hard time charging that the president can't make up his mind

 BODY:
President Obama's display of leadership in directing the killing of Osama bin Laden raises the prospect that American politics can move away from mindless debates over the president's loyalties and fortitude. Perhaps the 2012 campaign might even shift to real issues, like the economy and the major parties' competing visions of government's role. 
The baseless critique of Mr. Obama as a frightened lamb among the world's wolves was started in the 2008 campaign when Senators John McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton derided his ability to manage world affairs. ''It's got to do with experience, knowledge and judgment,'' Mr. McCain said, ''none of which Senator Obama has.''
The myth that he was a naive hand-wringer persisted, despite his decisions to reduce troops in Iraq, strengthen them in Afghanistan and join a coalition to halt the Qaddafi regime's bloodshed in Libya. His administration took too long to find its footing on Egypt's transition and in Libya, but it was not because, as the popular conservative blog RedState said, he is a ''trainee president.''
The blog accused Mr. Obama of basing his foreign policy on an ''effete, pampered background'' and a delight in consensus, and Republican presidential candidates quickly got the idea. Tim Pawlenty said in March that Mr. Obama was more worried about his international popularity than keeping the nation secure. And just a few weeks ago, Mitt Romney accused him of being timid, tentative, and apologetic, all qualities stemming from ''his fundamental disbelief in American exceptionalism.''
One of the subtexts to this argument is that Mr. Obama is not a true American, a thread soaked in the politics of fear and racial intolerance that runs through so much of the anti-Obama right. Donald Trump's nativist claim that the president is not a citizen had its foreign-policy equivalent last year in Newt Gingrich's repellent remark that Mr. Obama exhibits ''Kenyan, anticolonial behavior.''
But just as releasing a birth certificate marginalized one falsehood, Mr. Obama's risky and audacious decision to attack the Bin Laden compound in Pakistan has demolished the notion that he cannot make tough decisions or cares primarily about the nation's image abroad.
One clear sign of Republican unease is that some, like Rick Santorum, are trying to claim that Bin Laden's killing was an isolated event that proves nothing. That argument sounds hollow and desperate, and most Republicans are giving the president the credit he deserves.
There is still plenty of room for them to make politically coded attacks on Mr. Obama's domestic policies that have nothing to do with real substance -- saying he is a socialist who is trying to redistribute wealth, for example. But if -- oh, if -- they now make the 2012 race about issues that really matter, such as rebuilding the economy and the future of the government safety net, the nation will get the campaign it needs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); IRAQ WAR (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (74%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (56%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); EGYPT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



103 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Coming to a Planet Near You: 3 Billion More Mouths to Feed

BYLINE: JUSTIN GILLIS AND CELIA W. DUGGER


HIGHLIGHT: New projections put the earth's population at 10 billion in 2100. The big question is how far aggressive policy changes could bend that curve. 

 BODY:
In an article in Wednesday's paper, we conveyed the highlights of a new report from the United Nations population division projecting that the global population will keep growing throughout this century and eventually pass 10 billion. And we mentioned that the population is expected to surpass seven billion this year.
It turns out the United Nations has settled on an official date by which it expects the world to hit that seven-billion mark: Oct. 31. Nobody really knows for sure, of course -- our sense of the world's population at any given moment is an estimate at best. Still, perhaps it's appropriate that the chosen date falls on Halloween, given how scary the population problem looks to many people.
The new calculations, based on improved methods and the most recent demographic trends, essentially add a billion people to the population projection for 2100, and about 150 million to the projection for 2050. If these projections are borne out, the world's environmental challenges, already profound, will only deepen.The United Nations population estimates are fed into an array of computer models, in institutes around the world, that try to project future economic and environmental trajectories. Expect a flurry of updates in coming months on projections for climate change, land use, water availability and many other issues as the consequences of these revisions work their way through the world of scientific prognostication.
Even before the new estimates were issued, it was not at all clear that global agriculture could keep up with demand, which is rising both because of population growth and income growth. Even if food production does keep up, many experts worry that the environmental damage from agriculture, already substantial, will grow worse; it is already one of the biggest contributors to the greenhouse gases that are causing global warming.
On top of that, an extra billion people will demand energy, much of which may need to come from burning fossil fuels, thus adding to the greenhouse problem.
The big question is how far the population curve can be bent.
Recent decades offer evidence that a sustained focus on the issue could yield dividends in the relative handful of countries that are still growing fast -- chiefly in Africa and South Asia. For instance, the mullahs of Iran figured out a way to offer family planning in a culturally sensitive way, and the result has been a sharp decline in fertility in that country. By varied methods, countries as diverse as Mexico and Sri Lanka have accomplished the same thing.
In the past 15 years or so, international family-planning programs fell victim to a series of ideological battles over abortion, sex education and the social role of women. Budgets stagnated. More recently, in the United States, the Obama administration has pushed to expand financing for such programs, especially in Africa.
But in the budget battles on Capitol Hill, that has been a hard sell, and the programs took a 5 percent cut in the recent budget deal. Prospects for the budget year that begins Oct. 1 are cloudy.
In an interview on Tuesday in Johannesburg, Rajiv Shah, who heads the United States Agency for International Development, sought to make the best of a difficult political environment for foreign aid and family planning. While acknowledging that family planning has long been a neglected priority, he said that President Obama was personally committed both to Africa and family planning and had done his best to protect the budget for such programs.
Mr. Shah's agency, known as USAID, is the principal government agency that helps to fund global development. He said he himself was aiming to make taxpayers' money go further with reforms to the agency's procurement practices, rigorous evaluation of programs to measure results, and the restoration of the agency's expertise with the hiring of hundreds of foreign service officers.
During the Clinton administration, the agency had increasingly turned to contractors to deliver services and had lost much of its in-house ability to manage its sprawling global programs. Mr. Shah said the agency was also collaborating with the British development agency and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in an effort to prevent 100 million unwanted pregnancies in coming years in 21 countries with the greatest need.
In the long run, he said, recent success in reducing infant and child mortality across the continent would help bring down the number of children couples feel they must have.
In many poor countries that have no social security system for the aged, children are their parents' insurance. Until couples have confidence that their children will survive into adulthood, they will be likely to have more children as a hedge against the death of some. And it takes time to trust in the improved odds your children won't succumb to diarrhea, measles, malaria or other common killers.
John May, a World Bank demographer and expert on Africa's population patterns, estimated that it could take 10 to 20 years for declines in infant and child mortality to translate into reduced fertility for women.
"It's the expectation of survival you have to change," Mr. Shah said. "That takes a longer period of time."
Despite worries about fast population growth in the poorest countries, the new United Nations report highlights a sort of paradox in the population estimates: some of the world's wealthiest countries are worried not about growth but about the opposite problem: stagnant or falling populations.
That's because fertility in many of these countries has dropped below replacement level. It's not clear they will have enough young workers in future decades to support retirement programs for the elderly.
The contrast between the situation of these post-industrial societies and that of fast-growing poor countries is hard even for demographers to fathom. "It's stunning, and I don't use that word a lot," said Carl Haub, a demographer with the Population Reference Bureau in Washington. "There's a chasm between much of the developing world and the industrialized countries."
Coupled with longer life spans, the trend means that societies like Japan, Russia and South Korea are expected to age rapidly. The Japanese population is projected to decline from today's 126 million to 91 million by the year 2100. The Russian Federation is projected to decline from 142 million to 111 million. "A lot of countries are in panic mode -- South Korea, Taiwan, Germany," Mr. Haub said.
He pointed out that fertility in Taiwan had fallen below one child per woman on average, less than half the rate required for a population to replace itself. "Who ever would have expected that?"

        
10 Billion People by 2100?
        
Q. and A.: The Population Guru
        
Can Condoms Help Save Polar Bears?
        
Nuclear Plants Multiply in Developing Countries
        
Leapfrogging Feds, Wal-Mart Bans Controversial Flame Retardant

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); GREENHOUSE GASES (87%); SEX EDUCATION (84%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); FERTILITY RATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HALLOWEEN (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); EMISSIONS (72%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (72%); FAMILY PLANNING (71%); WOMEN (71%); AGRICULTURE (64%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (64%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (61%); INFANT MORTALITY (59%); RELIGION (50%); ABORTION (50%) 10 billion; Agency for International Development; demographic change; fertility; Infant Mortality; overpopulation; population growth; United Nations population division; Women and Girls; Shah, Rajiv; Air Pollution; Federal Budget (US); Foreign Aid; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Population; Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation; Population Reference Bureau; United Nations; United States Agency for International Development; Africa; Iran; Sri Lanka; Taiwan; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%) Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation; Population Reference Bureau; United Nations; United States Agency for International Development

PERSON: BILL GATES (65%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Shah, Rajiv

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) Africa; Iran; Sri Lanka; Taiwan

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



104 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: More on Tornadoes, Floods, Climate and Risk

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Scientists go deeper on climate change and risks from extreme weather. 

 BODY:
Here's a deeper discussion of efforts to clarify productive steps, both in science and policy, in the face of deadly tornado outbreaks, extraordinary midwestern flooding and climate change.
Kevin Trenberth, distinguished senior scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, sent this reaction to yesterday's post on the importance of addressing deep vulnerability to tornadoes in the South even as efforts are made to curb greenhouse gases. He notes that high sea temperatures linked to human-driven climate warming are contributing to extreme rainfall and thunderstorm activity and possibly tornado outbreaks:There are certainly issues related to warnings and building codes, but you seem to unduly discount climate change and high sea surface temperatures in the Gulf. Tornadoes are difficult to deal with because they are so small.
The observational record is not reliable. However less mistakable are the exceptionally heavy rains that accompanied the outbreaks. The multiple supercell thunderstorms are easily evident in satellite pictures and a nice movie of this made by NASA.
There were areas of over 20 inches, more extensive regions over 18 inches (especially southern Missouri) and a huge area with over 6 inches of rains, and so flooding is a result. But this is not confined to North America. The extensive flooding in South America: Columbia, last september and again now (they have 2 wet seasons a year) is record breaking. For instance in today's El Espectador you can see a photographic review of the effects so far of La Nina 2010-2011 in Colombia.
Summarizing:
Deaths: 428
Wounded: 525
Missing: 77
Affected persons: 3,070,372
Homeless families: 721,603
Affected Departments (States): 28 out of 32
Affected towns: 1,030
Number of affected hectares: 1,060,000
Please don't lose the bigger perspective and the undoubted effects of high sea surface temperatures, of which a component is human induced climate change, on these events. I think the evidence is emerging that quite small changes in sea surface temperatures have huge effects on hurricanes and these events.
Kerry Emanuel, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology climatologist who has for decades studied the relationship of climate change to hurricanes and other severe weather, posted this reaction: 
Nice piece...well balanced and makes the essential point that it will not pay to blame everything that goes wrong on climate change. Still, the outbreak was extraordinary, meteorologically, with 362 tornadoes versus the 148 of the previous record holder, the April 3-4, 1974, outbreak.
We have no idea whether this was a once in 100-year or once in 1,000-year event or whether climate change may have played a role. But it is clear that policies toward construction insurance, and federal disaster relief play the dominant role in setting up the U.S. for a string of natural disasters stretching as far as one can see into the future, with or without climate change.
At the same time, the scientific issue of how climate change might affect the incidence of severe thunderstorms and tornadoes should form an important avenue of research. In my view, this problem is ripe for a more concerted research effort.
Gavin Schmidt of NASA and the Realclimate blog, sent these thoughts before yesterday's post (I missed them in an e-mail rush):There is a little bit of a subtlety on exposure issues that is frequently glossed over. For instance, total cost (i.e., for insurance purposes) is the total of aggregate damage - and this undoubtedly increases with the amount of development (i.e 'the more stuff in the way' argument).
However insurance *premiums* on existing infrastructure should only change as a function of the perceived risk (which is independent of other development - except in the case that other infrastructure is going to damage you directly - perhaps via dam break or similar).
Since premiums need to be set fairly, there is a need to assess climate change related changes in risk regardless of whether that will be a small factor in overall costs.
For instance, if hurricanes are predicted to become more intense, the premium for an existing home should change by the difference in likely damages associated with higher winds.
The increases in *total* costs should be covered by having more people paying insurance premiums, but at the existing individual level, that is irrelevant.
Lives of course can be saved by having stronger infrastructure, better warnings, and more emergency shelters (one for every trailer park?). But that is not free, nor does it reduce non-human costs.
Perhaps more related to your upcoming post, the close emotional connection between weather and climate means that climate scientists are *always* being asked what connection there is between extreme weather and climate. This will also often be the only exposure the TV news gives any climate scientists at all. This is not going to change.
Considering this season's extraordinary flooding in the Mississippi River basin and the losses from this spring's tornado outbreaks, Kevin M. Simmons, the economist at Austin College studying tornado deaths, sent this reflection:Perhaps Katrina, last week's tornadoes and current flooding may ignite a conversation about how we live with our environment. I did a project on storm mitigation on Galveston island years ago and in visiting Galveston I was struck by developers literally dumping sand into the bay to create more "seaside" lots to sell. The truth is we are just not smart enough to contain the environment to our demands. At some point we have to respect the limitations and live within them. Dennis Mileti wrote a book called "Disasters by Design." His basic point is that when we build homes, business etc, in known hazardous places, bad things are eventually going to happen.
Here's more on the midwestern flooding, which is threatening to match or exceed the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927. I sent some questions to Nicholas Pinter of Southern Illinois University, who's done important studies of the human habit ofrebuilding in flood zones in the Midwest. Here's the exchange, with a bit of e-mail shorthand cleaned up:
Q. Given the human habit of building in harm's way, particularly along the great waterways of the heartland, what's your sense of the mix of factors leading to the extent of what's coming this spring (...engineering in favor of agriculture, spread of impervious surfaces, climate change, climate variability...)?
A. The Birds Point-New Madrid floodway is a microcosm of the paradoxes and contradictions of U.S. flood-control strategy. People living and working on floodway land designed and designated as an overflow channel of the river -- and for which, U.S. taxpayers paid flow easements -- these people fight against using the floodway for its intended purpose.
American property-owners refuse to accept that Nature may place any inherent limits on how we may profit from any acre of land anywhere. In 1981, Liz Anderson, a Missouri local, wrote that "over one billion dollars worth of industry wanted to build in the floodplain area" (Morgan, 1999).
Floods are inevitable and even beneficial functions of rivers except where humans and human infrastructure impose themselves upon the natural domain of flooding, which is the floodplain.
Q. What are the biggest differences between the situations the last time this levee was opened and now?
A. The Corps last blew the Birds Point levee in 1937. Politically, little has changes since then -- floodway residents, farmers, and Missouri politicians have fought the Corps during each large flood, and successfully blocked several attempts to open the floodway.
What has changed -- like U.S. floodplains as a whole -- is that at-risk population and infrastructure defied good sense, planning, and increased in these areas. Political pressure is never-ending -- "In June 1982, Assistant Secretary of the Army William Gianelli toured the Birds Point-New Madrid Floodway by helicopter and instructed the Memphis District to allow development that was compatible with flood control" (Morgan, 1999). During the last decade floodplain residents and Missouri politicians lobbied for internal levees within the floodway -- flood protection WITHIN a designated floodway,
Q. Is there any way to smartly UNbuild the human presence in areas where assets superimpose with nature's need for elbow room? 
A. Facing increasing flooding from increasing development, climate change, etc., several European countries have adopted an official policy of "Room for the Rivers" -- retreating from their floodplains rather than continuing to develope upon them.
Q. Is there any way for the answer to the previous question to happen in the real world? 
A. Our research group and our partners are currently implementing a strategy to restart a process of wholesale relocation of willing communities off floodplains. The last such large-scale and wholesale relocation was Valmeyer, Ill., in the wake of the 1993 flood, with nothing in the past 18 years. The mayor of Valmeyer and prime motivator of its move was Dennis Knobloch, a partner in our initiative.

        
Flooding, Monitoring, Warming, Building
        
Lessons Emerge in Varied Losses from Extreme Floods
        
Extreme Weather in a Warming World
        
Lessons in Resilience From New Orleans
        
Building Resilience on a Turbulent Planet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); EL NINO & LA NINA (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); FAMILY (63%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) disasters; flooding; Global Warming; Midwest; resilience; Disasters and Emergencies; Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rain; Tornadoes; Weather; National Center for Atmospheric Research; Colombia; Mississippi River; Missouri; South America; Climate Change; Water

ORGANIZATION: National Center for Atmospheric Research

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Colombia; Mississippi River; Missouri; South America

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



105 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 4, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Greater Power Over Wall Street, Left Unexamined

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve is the steward of the economy, but it also has to regulate the financial system, a responsibility it has yet to discuss publicly. 

 BODY:
6:58 p.m. | Updated 
The most notable thing about the first news press conference ever of the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, last week was what wasn't discussed: banking regulation.
We hardly need more evidence that the most powerful banking regulator in the world, one that became even more powerful after financial reform was passed, is also the least examined. Mr. Bernanke's opening remarks were about monetary policy and the economy. When he answered questions, he repeatedly referred to the Fed's "dual mandate" - to keep inflation low and stable and to maintain full employment for the economy.
But that's not the Federal Reserve's true dual mandate. The Fed is indeed the steward of the economy, but it also has to regulate the financial system, making sure banks are safe and sound.
In the years before the financial crisis, the Fed was a miserable failure in that role, a creature of the banks, not a watchdog. The news conference was an opportunity for Mr. Bernanke to demonstrate what the Fed had learned from the crisis about banking oversight. After all, a collapsed financial system does spectacular damage to an economy.
There's more to discuss about this now than ever. Under the giant Dodd-Frank package, the Fed was given an expanded regulatory role. The new consumer financial products regulator is housed within the central bank. The Fed also now officially oversees investment banks, which it had to rescue during the crisis. Congress broadened the Fed's remit to cover nonfinancial institutions deemed "systemically important." Congress created a new role, the "vice chairman of supervision," to raise the prominence and importance of its responsibility. (It remains unfilled.) Perhaps most important, the Federal Reserve is supposed to play a major role in taking over big banks that fail.
Banking supervision has always been something of a backwater at the Fed. Within the institution, the sexy stuff is monetary policy. That's where most of the resources and attention goes. The chairman and the board spend a disproportionate amount of their time on it, and monetary policy expertise largely dictates the selection of board members. Many question that mind-set.
"Either expressly or implicitly, the Fed permeates every part of the Dodd-Frank reform," says Dennis Kelleher, the chairman of Better Markets, a new Washington advocacy group that aims to be a Wall Street watchdog. "Yet there is no indication that the leadership of Fed understands or is undertaking its new role as systemic risk regulator. It's not on the mind of the Fed chairman."
Without much public comment, the Fed is making critical decisions about the banks today. It just ran a round of stress tests for the banking system in which most banks came up smelling like roses. Most big banks were allowed to pay dividends and pay back the government's Troubled Asset Relief Program money. Yet the economy is weaker than the Fed expected, and the real estate market, which makes up the bulk of banks' exposure, is having a second downturn. What gives the Fed so much confidence that the banks are properly valuing their assets and are adequately capitalized?
For a brief moment back in 2009, it was actually considered bizarre to give the Fed more power. Christopher J. Dodd, then the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, proposed creating a new financial regulatory infrastructure, stripping the Fed of its mandate.
Sadly, the bill was so dead on arrival it wasn't clear if even Mr. Dodd supported the Dodd bill. Nonetheless, removing banking regulation from the Fed's umbrella would have some clear advantages. Monetary policy is a pretty hard job. It might make some sense to split off regulation just to ease the burden.
And monetary policy can be in conflict with banking regulation. A central bank might prefer to shore up investor confidence and move on from a financial crisis without taking punitive action against wrongdoers, thinking that aggressive action might undermine faith in the system. Sound familiar to anyone?
Mr. Bernanke's news conference was also supposed to be a step toward realizing the Fed's new commitment to "transparency."
That's certainly welcome, but it has only gone so far. Congress repeatedly asked for more information on extraordinary actions taken by the Fed during the financial crisis, but was met initially with stonewalling. The central bank fought a lawsuit initiated by Bloomberg News to release data on what kinds of securities it bought during the financial crisis and from whom. When it lost and was finally forced to release the information, it did so in a fashion that it made assimilating the information difficult.
Earlier this year, when the Fed conducted its second round of bank stress tests, it made less information public than it had in the first round in 2009.
"Regulation needs accountability and transparency, and the Fed is just not set up to be accountable or transparent," says Mike Konczal, a fellow at the Roosevelt Institute, a liberal think tank focused on financial matters.
The sight of a Fed chairman answering reporters' questions in declarative English certainly was a departure from tradition. On Thursday, Bernanke is giving a speech on banking regulation. Let's hope that brings a comparable approach to regulation, which is ultimately far more significant.
An earlier version of this column misspelled the surname of a Roosevelt Institute fellow who was quoted on the Federal Reserve's accountability and transparency. It is Mike Konczal, not Konzcal. 
Because of an editing error, The Trade column on the DealBook page on Thursday, about the Federal Reserve's banking regulatory role, referred incorrectly to Better Markets, whose chairman, Dennis Kelleher, commented on the matter. It is an advocacy group, not a lobbying group.

        
In Debate Over Bank Capital Regulation, a Trans-Atlantic Gulf
        
Obama Signs Bill Overhauling Financial Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%) bank regulation; Ben Bernanke; Christopher J. Dodd; Dodd-Frank Act; Federal Reserve; Bernanke, Ben S; Dodd, Christopher J; Banking and Financial Institutions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Federal Reserve System; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; The Trade

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (90%) Bernanke, Ben S; Dodd, Christopher J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



106 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Budget May Be Finished, But a Governor's Work Isn't

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME; Kristin Zisson contributed reporting from Greenwich and Stamford, Conn.

 BODY:
HARTFORD -- Moving from Gorilla A to Gorilla B, Gov. Dannel P. Malloy on Wednesday signed into law a $40.1 billion budget that includes the largest tax increase in Connecticut history, then headed toward a Friday target for extracting $1 billion in annual wage and benefit concessions and program cuts from more than 45,000 state employees.
If negotiations fail, Mr. Malloy said, he is prepared to lay off more than 4,000 employees and enact other program cuts needed to ensure that the two-year budget lawmakers passed on Tuesday will be balanced. There was no sign on Wednesday that a deal was imminent. 
''I know it's a tough vote; it's also the right vote,'' Mr. Malloy, the state's first Democratic governor in two decades, said in a statement after the budget vote. ''This budget is balanced, honest and contains none of the gimmicks that helped get us into this mess.''
In an era of tax cuts, the budget -- with its broad-based array of new taxes, tax increases and the end of tax exemptions on services and items including entertainment, clothes, nonprescription drugs, yoga classes, alcohol and tobacco -- is at odds with the approach of most states, including neighboring New York and New Jersey.
But the looming showdown with unions leaves Mr. Malloy at the risk of not just enacting unpopular taxes, but also alienating his labor supporters and provoking an extended fracas over the state's finances.
At a press reception at the governor's residence on Wednesday morning, Mr. Malloy said he had inherited one of the nation's worst budget messes, with an estimated deficit of at least $3.2 billion and the highest rate of per-capita debt in the country.
''I've been in government a long time, and I've never seen the public embrace tax increases,'' he said. Still, citing the severity of the state's fiscal challenges, he added, ''I think there was a recognition that it was too big to cut our way out and too big to tax our way out, and that required a commitment to going down a different road.''
Mr. Malloy said residents understood that as a newly elected governor, he was trying to fix a crisis he had not created. But Republicans continued to hammer the budget, calling it an unprecedented tax burden on a middle class already under assault.
''I think we're already seeing evidence that the people in Connecticut are more angered by what's happening with their government than at any time since the institution of the income tax in 1991,'' the State Senate minority leader, John McKinney, said. ''I think when people see all the taxes that are in this, that anger is going to turn into calls to change this legislation -- if not before the end of this session, then next year.''
Christopher Healy, the state Republican Party chairman, pointed across the border to New York, saying that Mr. Malloy should have taken a cue from the antitax stance of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat.
''Even Democratic states with Democratic governors are going in the opposite direction,'' Mr. Healy said. ''Whatever you think of Andrew Cuomo, he's making hard choices. I never see any of that here in Connecticut.''
But Mr. Malloy and other Democratic officials said they had chosen to address the state's fiscal crisis in a balanced way, while avoiding sweeping cuts to education and health care and without simply shifting problems down to local governments, as other states are doing.
Clearly, they are taking a political risk. A recent Quinnipiac poll showed the approval rating for Mr. Malloy, elected in November, at 35 percent. His Republican predecessor, Gov. M. Jodi Rell, remained above 60 percent for almost all of her tenure.
But it is unclear how tuned in residents are to the changes, many of which will play out almost invisibly in tweaks to sales and other taxes. Along with income tax increases, the sales tax will increase from 6 percent to 6.35, and a popular homeowners' tax credit is capped at $300 instead of $500.
John Upson, 40, a Stamford landscaper, said he was not following the budget process carefully but was pleased the tax increases seemed to fall disproportionately on the wealthy. He said he would prefer spending cuts as a first resort, but found the increases tolerable.
''Of course, who wouldn't want to go after the wealthy'' first for tax increases, Mr. Upson said. ''The increases seem reasonable. The only one that affects me is the sales tax, and that's not much.''
Ana Novak, 28, a stay-at-home mother from Greenwich, was more skeptical about the cuts and the direction of the state economy.
''I just don't think it will help the economy if people don't spend money,'' she said of the tax increases. ''My husband's company already decided to move their headquarters to Switzerland.'' She added that Connecticut's leaders ''need to find a way to stay competitive, or companies will find another place to move.''
''I definitely think I pay enough taxes,'' she continued.
The governor's focus now is on negotiations with state employees. Because of mandated notice periods, Mr. Malloy must begin sending out layoff notices on Friday to meet his goal of a balanced budget by July 1.
''I have not sought to demonize anyone in this process,'' Mr. Malloy said. ''I think it's one of the reasons we're still having those discussions.''
Larry Dorman, spokesman for the group that represents 13 state employee unions, said the budget was asking for too much from state workers, who ''like all middle class families, are already paying 10 percent of our income in state and local taxes, while millionaires are only paying 5 percent of their income and some of our largest corporations are paying little or no taxes at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut with legislators on Wednesday as he signed into law the largest tax increase in state history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INCOME TAX (67%); YOGA (66%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



107 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: To Enhance Chip Speed, Intel Enters 3rd Dimension

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
HILLSBORO, Ore. -- Intel announced on Wednesday that it had again found a way to make computer chips that could process information more quickly and with less power in less space.
The transistors on computer chips -- whether for PC's or smartphones -- have been designed in essentially the same way since 1959 when Robert Noyce, Intel's co-founder, and Jack Kilby of Texas Instruments independently invented the first integrated circuits that became the basic building block of electronic devices in the information age.
These early transistors were built on a flat surface. But like a real estate developer building skyscrapers to get more rentable space from a plot of land, Intel is now building up. When the space between the billions of tiny electronic switches on the flat surface of a computer chip is measured in the width of just dozens of atoms, designers needed the third dimension to find more room.
The company has already begun making its microprocessors using a new 3-D transistor design, called a Finfet (for fin field-effect transistor), which is based around a remarkably small pillar, or fin, of silicon that rises above the surface of the chip. Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., plans to enter general production based on the new technology some time later this year. 
Although the company did not give technical details about its new process in its Wednesday announcement, it said that it expected to be able to make chips that run as much as 37 percent faster in low-voltage applications and it would be able to cut power consumption as much as 50 percent.
Intel currently uses a photolithographic process to make a chip, in which the smallest feature on the chip is just 32 nanometers, a level of microscopic manufacture that was reached in 2009. (By comparison a human red blood cell is 7,500 nanometers in width and a strand of DNA is 2.5 nanometers.) ''Intel is on track for 22-nanometer manufacturing later this year,'' said Mark T. Bohr, an Intel senior fellow and the scientist who has overseen the effort to develop the next generation of smaller transistors.
The company's engineers said that they now felt confident that they would be able to solve the challenges of making chips through at least the 10-nanometer generation, which is likely to happen in 2015.
The timing of the announcement Wednesday is significant, Dr. Bohr said, because it is evidence that the world's largest chip maker is not slipping from the pace of doubling the number of transistors that can be etched onto a sliver of silicon every two years, a phenomenon known as Moore's Law. Although not a law of physics, the 1965 observation by Intel's co-founder, Gordon Moore, has defined the speed of innovation for much of the world's economy. It has also set the computing industry apart from other types of manufacturing because it has continued to improve at an accelerating rate, offering greater computing power and lower cost at regular intervals.
However, despite its promise and the company's bold claims, Intel's 3-D transistor is still a controversial technology within the chip industry. Indeed, a number of the company's competitors say they believe that Intel is taking a what could be a disastrous multibillion-dollar gamble on an unproved technology.
There has been industry speculation that Finfet technology will give Intel a clear speed advantage, but possibly less control over power consumption than alternative approaches.
By opting for a technology that emphasizes speed over low power, Intel faces the possibility that it could win the technology battle and yet lose the more important battle in the marketplace. The scope of Intel's gamble is underscored by the fact that while the company dominates in the markets for data center computers, desktops and laptops, it has largely been locked out of the tablet and smartphone markets, which are growing far more quickly than the traditional PC industry.
Those devices use ultra-low-powered chips to conserve battery power and reduce overheating. Apple, for example, uses Intel's microprocessors for its desktops and laptops, but for the iPhone and iPad it has chosen to use a rival low-power design, built by others, that Apple originally helped pioneer in the late 1980s.
Industry executives and analysts have said that Intel is likely to have a lead of a full generation over its rivals in the shift to 3-D transistors. For example, T.S.M.C., the Taiwan-based chip maker, has said that it does not plan to deploy Finfet transistor technology for another two years.
Other companies, like ST Microelectronics, are wagering that an alternative technology based on placing a remarkably thin insulating layer below traditional transistors will chart a safer course toward the next generation of chip manufacturing. They believe that the insulation approach will excel in low-power applications, and that could be a crucial advantage in consumer-oriented markets where a vast majority of popular products are both hand-held and battery-powered.
''Silicon-on-insulator could be a win in terms of power efficiency,'' said David Lammers, the editor in chief of Semiconductor Manufacturing and Design Community, a Web site. ''From what I am hearing from the S.O.I. camp, there is a consensus and concession that Finfets are faster. That's the way you want to go for leading-edge performance.''
In a factory tour here last week, Intel used a scanning electronic microscope to display a computer chip made using the new 22-nanometer manufacturing process. Viewed at a magnification of more than 100,000 times, the silicon fins are clearly visible as a series of walls projected above a flat surface.
It is possible to make transistors out of one or a number of the tiny fins to build switches that have different characteristics, such as faster switching speeds or extremely low power. Looking at the chip under less magnification, it is possible to see the wiring design, which appears much like a street map displaying millions of intersections.
Despite the impressive display, Intel's executives acknowledge the challenge the company is facing in trying to catch up in the new consumer markets that so far have eluded it.
''The ecosystem right now is not aligned in our favor,'' said Andy D. Bryant, Intel's chief administrative officer, who now runs the company's technology and manufacturing group. ''It has to be good enough for the ecosystem to take notice and say, 'We better pay attention to those guys.' ''
Online Correction: May 4, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the dateline as Hillsborough.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Intel's new transistors have tiny pillars, or fins, that rise above the chip's surface. (B1)
Traditional planar transistor
 Intel Tri-Gate transistor (B6) GRAPHICS: New Transistor Grows in the Third Dimension: The new Intel transistor provides higher performance by increasing the conductive area between the source and drain regions of the chip, allowing more current to flow through. (Source: Intel) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROPROCESSORS (93%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); DNA (62%); PHYSICS (60%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) OREGON, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



108 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Business Travel; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Hotels Add Extras to Cushion Higher Prices

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

 BODY:
Suzanne Dissette won't pad her expense account with minibar charges or in-room movie fees. She comparison-shops for airfares and drives to the airport, rather than take a taxi, to save money. She walks a line between spending what she needs to do her job and watching her outlays. That is why the free bottle of water at the Doubletree Hotel in Dana Point, Calif., felt like a gift -- both personal and spontaneous.
''All those little expenses add up,'' said Ms. Dissette, who is based in Chicago and sells commercial ceilings for the Chicago Metallic Corporation. ''I loved it when they handed me a bottle of water. I feel like they're giving me a bottle of Champagne.''
Unlike airlines, which are unbundling services and increasing their bottom lines by charging fees for baggage, bulkhead seats, blankets and more, hotels are increasingly doling out the figurative bubbly by providing more perks to guests. Whether automatically wrapped into the rate or part of a special package, things that one might normally pay an extra fee for, like Wi-Fi, minibar snacks, breakfast and cocktails -- or at least bottled water -- are welcoming business travelers back as the economy recovers. 
Hilton Garden Inn, which has long included Wi-Fi in nightly rates that average about $129, recently added free document printing from guests' laptops and lends fitness kits, including yoga mats and hand weights.
The Langham Huntington in Pasadena, Calif., is aiming at the legal trade bound for nearby firms in Los Angeles with rooms starting at $179, including a free martini, shoe shining, suit pressing and coffee.
Marriott's extended-stay brand, Residence Inn, where Internet access, breakfast and evening cocktails are included in the rates, recently upgraded its room design and expanded its breakfast menus so that weekday guests would not have the same cereal or scrambled egg selections every day.
Many hotel trends start from the high end and trickle down. But in the culture of bargain hunting begat by higher unemployment and tighter budgets, brands like Residence Inn, where room rates generally run from $120 to $160, look smart, even to those up the rate ladder.
At the Renaissance Pittsburgh, where midweek rooms start at $289, the director of group sales, Kristina Bush, selects employees of one company each month and gives them coupons for a drink at the bar, any in-room movie or a discount at the restaurant. So far, the movie is the most popular giveaway.
''We already offer complimentary Wi-Fi,'' she said. ''It's going beyond the basics at this point.''
High-end hotels are offering more specialized services. The Ritz-Carlton in Charlotte, N.C., furnishes fully equipped offices to guests at no charge.
At the Trump Soho New York, a new package aimed at business travelers costs about $100 over standard rates, but it bundles in $150 to $200 in amenities, including breakfast, Wi-Fi and a spa credit. ''Business travel as a whole is back and strong,'' said David Chase, general manager. ''But people are still seeking value.''
Complaints about nickel-and-diming have helped start at least one high-end brand: Hyatt's Andaz, established in 2007, covers minibar snacks and nonalcoholic beverages as well as Internet access, local phone calls and perks like a glass of wine at check-in and a bottle of water at checkout at its five locations. Rates vary but generally start above $255 in June at hotels in New York and West Hollywood, Calif.
Of course, there is a premium associated with more inclusive stays. In fact, analysts say the extras are all about raising room rates. After several years of discounting rooms to attract new business -- which essentially shuffled demand in a relatively stagnant market -- hotels hope to justify their rates by building in perks.
Including breakfast and the like ''adds something of perceived value to guests,'' said a hotel consultant, Scott Brush of Brush & Company in Miami. ''It's amenity creep.''
Room rates are creeping, too, up 3.1 percent in the first quarter of 2011 to an average of $99.37, according to Smith Travel Research. Revenue per available room surged 9 percent to $54.46, the fourth consecutive quarterly gain and the biggest since 2006. Occupancy increased 5.7 percent to nearly 55 percent.
But even after prices are raised, amenities tend to stay. One reason is that research on younger business travelers reveals their preferences for socializing and entertainment, said Bjorn Hanson, clinical professor at Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. Paying for Wi-Fi is particularly irksome to them, he noted. ''It's like charging for the elevator,'' he said.
Even in jobs where lodging choices are dictated by corporate contracts, which often bundle Internet and the breakfast buffet in the deal, most travelers realize that their power in the market depends on their loyalty, making frequent-guest programs popular. Some, including Fairmont Hotels and Resorts, offer perks like free Internet access for joining. In most programs, benefits increase based on the number of stays.
These inclusions have saved Mike Wallenfels, chief executive of the San Francisco messenger bag company Timbuk2, from sticker shock at checkout. ''With hotels starting to bundle amenities, at least they're not ratcheting up the cost,'' said Mr. Wallenfels, who tends to stay at Hilton, Sheraton and Kimpton hotels, where he has frequent-guest memberships. ''It used to be you booked for $189 but left with a bill over $250. That's something that's starting to go away, but only for points or award program members.''
Or those willing to pay up front. At the new JW Marriott Chicago, members of the Marriott Rewards program with at least 50 nights per year are automatically upgraded to the executive-level floor, where rates include Internet access and entry to the lounge serving breakfast, midday snacks and evening hors d'oeuvres. Nonmembers can pay an extra $60 for the upgrade.
Whether they are sitting on fat loyalty accounts or not, most business travelers say it does not take a free suite to make them happy. Sometimes a cup of coffee is enough. Bert Rowland, a Los Angeles estate manager, stays in Las Vegas on business at the Element Hotel in nearby Summerlin, which provides Internet access, breakfast, evening cocktails, loaner bicycles and occasional poolside barbecues, as well as coffee and tea throughout the day.
''It's a very small thing that makes a huge difference,'' he said. ''There's nothing they nickel and dime you for. It's nice not having to submit an expense report for something like that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (87%); RESTAURANTS (78%); AIR FARES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BOTTLED WATER (77%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); AIRLINES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (66%); YOGA (64%)

COMPANY: CHICAGO METALLIC CORP (71%); RESIDENCE INN (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3441 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



109 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: A Stravinksy Program With Ancient Inspiration

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
A couple of years ago the Philadelphia Orchestra seemed adrift as it searched simultaneously for a chief executive, a board chairman and a music director. On top of that were rumblings of financial problems. It was hard to imagine how things could get worse for this great American ensemble.
Well, last month the Philadelphia Orchestra filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. This decision may be evidence of severe financial straits, a strategic business move to finagle a way through a crisis or, most likely, a little of both. 
Still, whatever is going on behind the scenes, the orchestra is playing its concerts, including a challenging Stravinsky program on Tuesday night at Carnegie Hall, where it has long enjoyed support from fans in the New York area. During the first work, Stravinsky's ''Apollo,'' a ballet in two tableaus, the musicians looked and sounded a little demoralized, though this may have been the impression left by the super-refined approach that Charles Dutoit, the chief conductor, took to this delicately textured Neo-Classical score. After intermission Mr. Dutoit led vocal soloists, the men of the Philadelphia Singers Chorale and the orchestra in a compelling account of ''Oedipus Rex,'' Stravinsky's 50-minute opera-oratorio.
The financial crisis came at a time when the orchestra seemed exhilarated by having lined up Yannick Nezet-Seguin, one of the most dynamic conductors of the new generation, as its music director, starting in 2012.
In the meantime Mr. Dutoit is a classy caretaker, though I found his lackluster ''Apollo'' puzzling. The scenario for this ballet depicts the birth of Apollo to Zeus and Leto, and shows this all-purpose god of light, truth, medicine, the arts and more in a series of dances with three muses. In approaching the subject Stravinsky evokes antiquity through music of distilled, austerely Neo-Classical grace. Composed in 1927-28, the work is scored just for strings; the textures are transparent, the harmonic language quite diatonic.
Yet Stravinsky was inspired here, at least in part, by French Baroque music. The score is run through with dotted-note rhythmic figures and stately dances. Mr. Dutoit drew richness and carefully voiced harmonies from the strings and conveyed the music's mystery. But the restrained tempos and deliberate gait drained vitality from the score.
''Oedipus Rex'' (1926-27), based on the Sophocles tragedy, is an unconventional dramatic work. Jean Cocteau's text, originally in French, alternates passages for a narrator (performed here in English translation) with arias and choruses that Stravinsky had translated into Latin, to give the work a quasi-religious aura.
The narrator here, David Howey, intoned the text in English-accented speech that was heavily amplified, which made the words come across like fatalistic pronouncements. The roster of vocal soloists was not the best. Though the tenor Paul Groves captured the questioning earnestness and, later, the shell-shocked torment of Oedipus in his expressive singing, his voice was sometimes strained.
The mezzo-soprano Petra Lang wobbled her way through Queen Jocasta's aria, though she made plenty of sound and brought great breadth to the almost Verdian vocal lines. The bass-baritone Robert Gierlach as Creon and the Messenger, the baritone David Wilson-Johnson as the seer Tiresias and the tenor Matthew Plenk as the Shepherd all had their moments.
The chorus sang with fervor and full-bodied tone. And from the gnashing opening chords to the stunned final moments of the work -- in which Oedipus' subjects sing their pitying, emotionally spent farewell to the king, who has blinded himself -- Mr. Dutoit drew a vibrant performance from the orchestra and chorus: incisive yet never rigid, intense yet august. The audience, perhaps mindful of the orchestra's troubles but also roused to enthusiasm, broke into a prolonged ovation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Philadelphia Orchestra: Charles Dutoit conducting works for ballet and opera-oratorio on Tuesday at Isaac Stern Auditorium, Carnegie Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); BALLET (89%); DANCE (89%); OPERA (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); RELIGION (63%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (56%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



110 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Raise Taxes, but Not Tax Rates

BYLINE: By MARTIN S. FELDSTEIN. 
Martin S. Feldstein, a professor of economics at Harvard, was the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 1982 to 1984 under President Ronald Reagan.

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
REDUCING the budget deficit and stopping the explosion of our national debt will require more tax revenue as well as reduced government spending. But the need for more revenue needn't mean higher tax rates.
As the bipartisan fiscal commission appointed by President Obama stressed last year, tax revenues can be increased substantially by limiting the deductions, credits and exclusions that are essentially government spending by another name.
Tax credits for buying solar panels or hybrid cars are just like government spending to subsidize those purchases. Similarly, the exclusion from employees' taxable incomes of employer payments for health insurance is no different from subsidizing the purchase of those insurance policies. The deduction for interest on residential mortgages, probably the best-known tax expenditure, amounts to a giant subsidy for homeownership. 
At their worst, such tax expenditures create incentives for wasteful borrowing and spending; they have been factors in the mortgage crisis and the rising cost of health care.
Tax expenditures collectively increase the budget deficit by more than all other nondefense spending combined, other than Social Security and Medicare. And unlike those direct outlays, these tax expenditures are not subject to annual review as part of the appropriations process. Once they are part of the law, they automatically continue and become more costly with time.
Despite the strong case for limiting tax expenditures, it is politically difficult to do so because no one wants to give up benefits.
So here is a way to curb this loss of revenue without eliminating any individual deduction: limit the total tax saving for any individual to a maximum percentage of his total income. Daniel Feenberg of the National Bureau of Economic Research, Maya MacGuineas of the New America Foundation and I have been studying a reform that would cap the tax reduction that each taxpayer could get from tax expenditures to 2 percent of his adjusted gross income.
What's the result? Taxpayers with incomes of $25,000 to $50,000 would pay about $1,000 more in taxes; those with incomes of more than $500,000 might pay $40,000 more.
The cap would affect more than 80 percent of taxpayers. Although they would continue to benefit from the mortgage deduction, the health insurance exclusion and other tax expenditures, their tax savings would not increase if they took out a larger mortgage or a more expensive insurance policy. Similarly, they would not be penalized and get a lesser tax benefit if they scaled back their mortgage or their health insurance premium by moderate amounts.
A key point to stress about this proposal is that the 2 percent cap refers to the reduction in an individual's taxes, not to the size of the tax deduction or exclusion.
Consider a taxpayer with an adjusted gross income of $150,000 who faces a 25 percent marginal tax rate and has total deductions (for mortgage interest, state taxes and other items) of $30,000 and a $10,000 health insurance premium provided by his employer.
The deductions and exclusion together reduce taxable income by $40,000 and the tax liability by 25 percent of that, or $10,000 -- well above the 2 percent cap of $3,000. This calculation (which would appear on a modified version of the current tax form, reflecting insurance premiums reported by employers) would seem to imply a tax increase of $7,000.
But if he switched to the standard deduction, the only tax expenditure benefit he would get would be from the health insurance exclusion. That $10,000 premium implies a tax expenditure of $2,500, which is less than the 2 percent cap. The result is an increase in taxable income by $18,400 (the difference between the $30,000 in itemized deductions and the $11,600 standard deduction) and a tax increase of $4,600.
With the 2 percent cap, individuals would continue to benefit from all of their current deductions, exclusions and credits. It is the total tax benefit and not any particular tax reduction that is limited.
To estimate the macroeconomic effects of this proposal we used the tax simulation model of the National Bureau of Economic Research, as well as a sample of nearly 150,000 anonymous tax returns for 2006 provided by the Internal Revenue Service, adjusted to approximate the total taxes and tax expenditures for 2011.
We found that a 2 percent cap on tax expenditures in 2011 would raise tax revenue by $278 billion -- nearly 30 percent of total projected income tax revenue for this year. The extra revenue would increase over time, reaching nearly half of the projected future fiscal deficits.
The tax expenditures that we cap in our analysis include all itemized deductions, the health insurance exclusion and the child tax credit. We do not limit the tax expenditures associated with saving and investment like the individual retirement account deduction, the interest accumulating in I.R.A. accounts, and the reduced rate on capital gains.
The 2 percent cap would also simplify tax payments by inducing some 35 million taxpayers who itemize their deductions to shift to the standard deduction method. That is about three out of four of those who now itemize their deductions.
It would be possible, of course, to start with a higher ceiling on the tax expenditure benefit and gradually reduce the cap to 2 percent. A 3 percent cap would raise $208 billion, while a 5 percent cap would raise only $110 billion. Our list of tax expenditures could also be modified -- to exempt charitable contributions from the cap, for example.
Federal revenue must be raised to deal with our very serious fiscal problems. But it would be far better to do so by capping tax expenditures than by raising marginal tax rates.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX INCREASES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



111 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Questions Linger On S.B.A. Loans

BYLINE: By ROBB MANDELBAUM

 BODY:
The Small Business Administration's special stimulus-funded loan program, known as America's Recovery Capital, may be gone, but the controversy surrounding it lingers. In March, the agency's independent Inspector General released a report estimating that of the 4,559 A.R.C. loans made through January 2010, nearly half ''were not originated and closed in compliance with S.B.A.'s policies and procedures, resulting in approximately $66.5 million in inappropriate loan approvals.'' If those loans default, the report warns, the banks that made them should not expect to be fully repaid by the S.B.A.
The A.R.C. loan program was conceived as a lifeline for sound businesses navigating the ragged shoals of recession. Companies could borrow up to $35,000 to retire existing debt, defer payments on the new loan for a year, and then take five more years to repay the obligation - with no interest or fees charged to the borrower. (The government would pay those.) The S.B.A. estimated that it had enough money to fund about 10,000 loans, and some observers predicted the program would be fully subscribed within a few months. 
But many bankers were wary from the outset, and within two months of the program's inauguration, it became clear that lenders were not eager to participate. In part that was because all of the required underwriting work made the loans not very profitable, if not unprofitable. But bankers also worried that standards for determining eligibility were untenable - businesses had to be both, in the language of the law, ''viable'' yet ''experiencing immediate financial hardship'' - and that the government would try to wrangle out of its obligation to make good on defaulted debt. ''While the loan is 100 percent guaranteed, it's only 100 percent guaranteed if you follow all of the underwriting guidelines, and some of those guidelines are very fuzzy,'' Bob Seiwert, of the American Bankers Association, told The Times in August 2009. ''If you miss one, you put your whole loan at risk.''
By the time the program expired at the end of last September, only 8,869 loans for $287 million had been made, well short of the amount of money available for lending.
Now the bankers' fears appear well-founded. The inspector general's audit found that among what it called ''material origination and closing deficiencies,'' one in four loans went to borrowers who could not adequately show they were viable. One in 10 loans went to businesses that could not prove hardship - in some cases, the investigators found, ''the financial information actually contradicted the claimed financial hardship.'' And, the report noted pointedly, ''the S.B.A. is released from liability on the guaranty, in whole or in part, if the lender fails to comply materially with any of the provisions of the regulations'' or does not otherwise act ''in a prudent manner.''
The S.B.A., responding to the audit, defended its lenders and insisted that the law gave the agency the flexibility to waive the procedures so long as ''the intent of the provision was met'' and making the loan ''did not violate the law.'' And because the inspector general did not give banks the opportunity to correct mistakes, the agency said, ''the true extent of the deficiencies is not known.''
Regardless of whether the inspector general's estimates of errors prove accurate - and mistakes in underwriting don't necessarily lead to a default - the report shows just how fraught efforts to intervene and save small businesses from the jaws of recession can be. Bob Coleman, who publishes a newsletter for the S.B.A. lending industry, noted that the S.B.A. inspector general received additional funding to investigate regular 7(a) loans that were made with 90 percent guarantees and reduced fees that, like the A.R.C. loans, were also funded by the Recovery Act. ''More audits like this one will continue,'' he warned readers recently.
Meanwhile, the S.B.A. continues to try to burnish A.R.C.'s reputation. Recently the agency named tiny Peoples Bank of Mississippi of Mendenhall, Miss., one of its Lenders of the Year in the agency's flagship general business, or 7(a), loan program. (There are two awards, one for large lenders and one for smaller institutions.) The award, according to the nomination guidelines, recognizes ''lenders that have used S.B.A. loan programs to help the maximum number of small-business owners obtain financing that they need to grow their businesses.'' Among the criteria for selection are growth in overall loan volume and reaching ''underserved'' (read: disadvantaged) borrowers.
Peoples Bank saw decent growth in the dollars it lent last year, but it was hardly among the biggest gainers, and at the end of the year ranked only 156th among 7(a) lenders. What distinguishes Peoples Bank from the rest of the pack, as alert Agenda readers may remember, is its prodigious A.R.C. loan lending. By the time the program ended, Peoples had funded 292 loans - more than any other bank save giants Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase and West Coast regional powerhouse Zions First National Bank.
So far, said Dennis Ammann, Peoples president and chief executive, the portfolio seems to be holding up well. True, fewer than 40 borrowers have begun repaying their A.R.C. loans, but only two borrowers have shuttered. ''The others seem to be doing well,'' Mr. Ammann said. ''They're all current on this debt, if they've started making payments, or if they have other debt, they're current on that.
''Most of these folks just needed that cash-flow help. That was the biggest thing.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); AUDITS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



112 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Florida Struggles With Arizona's Immigration Plan

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MIAMI -- With no debate, the Florida Senate on Wednesday approved a watered-down bill to curb illegal immigration, an issue that has divided Republicans in the state, pitting pro-business and Hispanic lawmakers against the party's more populist wing.
The bill would require the police to make ''a reasonable effort'' to determine the immigration status of people they arrest and jail, a provision that opponents say is an Arizona-style attack on legal and illegal immigrants. The proposal would also require that illegal immigrants who are convicted of nonviolent crimes be referred to federal officials for deportation. 
The vote was a surprise because lawmakers had presumed the bill was dead after the Senate voted down a pivotal amendment on Tuesday that had been pushed by Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, and Tea Party activists. That measure would have essentially required businesses in Florida to check a worker's immigration status in a federal verification database, known as E-Verify, or risk fines if a worker was found to be illegal.
''It's easy to talk about this down at the post office, but when you start looking in people's eyes, people who live and breathe like us, we need to think long and hard,'' said State Senator J. D. Alexander, a Republican who is a citrus grower and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''We are being put in the middle of the most difficult position.''
With the bill stripped of the amendment, more Republicans were willing to vote for the overall legislation. But the bill's prospects in the House are uncertain. The Legislature is expected to recess for the year on Friday, and House Republican leaders prefer their own version of the bill, which takes a considerably tougher line.
During his campaign last year, Mr. Scott vowed to bring an Arizona-style immigration law to Florida, and he supported the idea of having the police check a person's immigration status. He repeatedly brought up the issue and ran radio ads that challenged Florida lawmakers to get tougher on illegal immigrants. But he seldom talks about it now.
Asked on Wednesday whether there should be a special session to deal with immigration, a suggestion he made in a campaign advertisement, Mr. Scott said, ''I'm hopeful that between now and Friday night, we'll do the right things with regards to immigration.''
Advocates for immigrants said they were watching closely because anything is possible in the final days of the legislative session. Immigrants, legal and illegal, have thronged the Capitol to protest the bills, which they say are unconstitutional and racist and an effort to blame immigrants for the state's economic morass.
They say the Senate bill will inevitably lead to racial profiling and have vowed to challenge it in court. Arizona-style laws across the country have faced a string of lawsuits, and the original has been deemed unconstitutional, a ruling that is being appealed.
''If the Senate really wanted to enforce the rule of law, it would have sanctioned employers, and not just immigrants, many of whom have long contributed their labor and tax dollars to this state,'' said Cheryl Little, the executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center.
It was clear from the start that several Republican senators had little appetite for wading into the complex and politically risky issue in a state known for the political power of its immigrants and for its reliance on them to work in its fields, hotels and restaurants. The list of influential opponents of the verification measure is long: the Florida Chamber of Commerce, Disney, the agricultural industry and law enforcement groups, as well as immigrant advocates.
''We're trying to thread a very difficult needle here,'' said the State Senate's president, Mike Haridopolos, who is running for the United States Senate.
As a result, Republican allegiances were torn. All three Republican Hispanics in the Senate voted against the measure. So did Senator Alexander, an unusual twist since he had been asked by the Senate president at the last minute to take over the bill, toughen it up and shepherd it through.
On the floor Tuesday, he placed blame squarely on the federal government and said that E-Verify was flawed. He also said that most American citizens do not want many of the jobs that immigrants fill.
''Floridians don't want to do it: they don't want to go out and pick blueberries,'' Mr. Alexander said. ''You can't get anybody to come do this stuff. The same thing if it's construction or hotels. Americans don't want to do it.''
But others disagreed, saying illegal immigration was a pressing problem that required action. Another Republican state senator, John Thrasher, went so far as to say that had E-Verify been in place in 2001, the 9/11 hijackers would have been caught before the attacks.
''We might have saved the lives of 3,000 Americans,'' said Mr. Thrasher, who sponsored the E-Verify amendment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: When he ran for office last year, Gov. Rick Scott vowed to bring an Arizona-style immigration law to Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT COOPER/THE NEWS HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); RACIAL PROFILING (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); DEPORTATION (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); BUDGETS (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (62%); RADIO ADVERTISING (60%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



113 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: A Chance to Rebuild SUNY

 BODY:
Even before the fiscal crisis, the New York State Legislature was doing a terrible job of managing the State University of New York System. Lawmakers who voted to cut financing to the 64-campus system also starved it by forbidding reasonable tuition increases and then hijacked tuition revenue for use in the general state budget. In recent years, administrators have had to cut class offerings, limit enrollment and rely far too much on part-time faculty. 
Gov. Andrew Cuomo has now thrown support behind two sensible ideas. He endorsed a ''rational tuition'' bill, pending in both houses, that would allow the SUNY system to create a fair and predictable five-year tuition plan for in-state students, with a limit of no more than 5.5 percent per year. That would finally allow both schools and students to do more rational financial planning.
Mr. Cuomo also said he would support a proposal that would allow flagship campuses -- those with research programs and the most high-powered faculty -- to propose their own higher undergraduate tuition increases. And he announced a plan to give the research universities $140 million to finance campus expansions in hopes of promoting local economic development.
The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, seems set against differential tuition, fearing that it would price poorer students out of the best schools. But New York's current tuition costs are significantly lower than those in other northeastern systems.
In New Jersey's, the range of public four-year annual tuition plus required fees for full-time state resident undergraduates is $4,883 to $13,898. At SUNY, that range is $5,195 to $7,136.
It is necessary to avoid overly sharp tuition increases. But it costs more to educate students at high-cost research universities. Unless all of the state universities have a more rational budgeting process, the system will continue its decline, and New York's students will suffer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (94%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



114 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Debt Ceiling Has Some Give, Until Roof Falls In

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The federal government will not run short of money to pay its bills on May 16, when the federal debt reaches the legal maximum of $14.3 trillion.
Even after Aug. 2, the deadline the Treasury Department set this week for Congress to lift the borrowing limit, the government might be able to delay a crisis, perhaps even for a few months, through extraordinary measures such as asset sales.
But with every passing week of stalemate over the debt ceiling, the risk increases that investors will start to fret that the United States will not pay its debts, and demand higher interest rates for loans to the federal government. 
Should that happen, the cost could be vast and the damage difficult to reverse.
Debates over the debt ceiling are a regular feature of political life in Washington. Congress has lifted the ceiling more than once a year, on average, over the last half-century -- often right before the deadline. But the debt has never been so large, and the political climate has rarely been as contentious.
Republicans and some Democrats insist that an increase in the debt ceiling must be accompanied by concrete limits on future spending, entangling an issue that requires urgent attention with a debate unlikely to be resolved before the 2012 elections.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and lawmakers are scheduled to begin discussions on the national debt on Thursday at Blair House in Washington.
''When I talk to investors, their general reaction is they've seen this movie before. They expect that Congress will increase the debt ceiling,'' said Mary Miller, assistant Treasury secretary for financial markets. ''But I'm concerned because the stakes are higher here and the amount of time we can buy with extraordinary measures is smaller.''
The debt ceiling basically is the limit on the national credit card, the maximum amount that can be owed at any one time. The government hits the limit with some regularity because federal spending vastly exceeds revenue. Over the years, Congress, which controls federal spending, has always raised the limit.
When the current limit is reached on May 16, after the Treasury completes its latest round of borrowing, the government will need to find $125 billion a month to pay its bills.
The Treasury estimates that it can avoid a crisis until early August with few if any lasting consequences by spending about $100 billion in cash that it keeps on deposit with the Federal Reserve, the nation's central bank, and by temporarily suspending $232 billion in special-purpose borrowing programs so it can instead borrow money to finance general operations.
The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, warned Congress in April that once those resources were exhausted, the government would have to default.
''A broad range of government payments would have to be stopped, limited or delayed, including military salaries and retirement benefits, Social Security and Medicare payments, interest on the debt, unemployment benefits and tax refunds,'' he wrote.
A range of experts, including the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke; former Treasury officials from both political parties; and economists from across the ideological spectrum, warn that missing payments would be catastrophic. In particular, they say, investors would view Treasury debt as risky and Washington would be forced to pay higher interest rates.
The government plans to borrow $405 billion during the second half of 2011. If rates rose even a tenth of a percentage point, the added cost on those borrowings would be $405 million a year.
Many Republicans dismiss these warnings. They argue that the government could maintain the confidence of investors by prioritizing interest payments. There is ample revenue to make those payments, and the Republicans -- also backed by economists and financial experts -- say investors would not punish the government for failing to fulfill other financial obligations.
''I think the important thing to do would be to make it clear to markets that the government is not going to default on its debt,'' said Senator Patrick Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, whose bill assigns priority to interest payments. ''It would be easy, I think, to make it clear to the markets that they don't have to worry about this.''
Treasury officials respond that the failure to pay any obligations would set off a crisis.
''What participant in the market would want to buy our debt as we are defaulting on other obligations?'' asked Ms. Miller. ''I think the markets would be completely spooked.''
Prioritizing interest payments would also require cutting spending immediately by much more than either party has ever proposed. The Congressional Research Service reported in February that the government would need to stop all discretionary spending and reduce payments under programs like Social Security.
So far, investors have shown no signs of concern. Moreover, the market reaction to past standoffs suggests that investors have learned over time to ignore the theatrics in Washington.
Investors demanded risk premiums of as much as half a percentage point during a heated confrontation in 1995 and 1996 between House Republicans and the Clinton administration. They demanded smaller risk premiums during standoffs in 2002 and 2003, according to research by Pu Liu, a finance professor at the University of Arkansas. But during more recent standoffs in 2005 and 2006, Professor Liu found no evidence of any risk premium.
Investors, he wrote, have taken to treating Washington ''like the boy that cried wolf.''
Of course, investors were more sanguine about risk in 2006 than they are now. But even if markets do remain calm, the cost of a standoff will rise sharply when Treasury exhausts its current measures around Aug. 2.
Then the government could stave off default for a time by selling assets at fire sale prices. The United States owns about $402 billion in gold at Monday's prices and about $81 billion in oil. It holds a portfolio of loans estimated to total $923 billion by September, including more than $100 billion in mortgage-backed securities it is selling slowly to investors, and more than $400 billion in college student loans.
Administration officials, however, say such a move would amount to a modest grace period bought at extravagant and wasteful expense. It would not change the fundamental need for Congress to raise the debt ceiling.
A more likely approach would borrow a page from the Clinton administration, which threatened in early 1996 to suspend Social Security payments for a month.
Congress immediately passed special legislation permitting the government to borrow the necessary money without counting it against the debt ceiling for one month. One day shy of a month later, Congress permanently raised the ceiling.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Republicans like Senator Patrick Toomey, top, say the prospect of default is overstated. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner says it is very real. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS) (A3) GRAPHICS: The Federal Government's Holdings (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); POLITICS (73%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (60%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (58%); PAT TOOMEY (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



115 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Declining Scores on Advanced Placement Exams

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''School Courses May Be Advanced in Name Only'' (news article, April 26):
The reason that students today are not as well prepared for Advanced Placement exams is twofold. 
First, many students are encouraged to take advanced-level courses that are unsuitable with respect to their abilities. We need to acknowledge that not all students can succeed in these advanced courses.
Second, as your article says, state curriculums have become less rigorous. There is a rather great discrepancy between what is expected of students on their individual state assessments and on national Advanced Placement tests.
Over the last 30 years, the New York State Board of Regents' mathematics syllabus has deteriorated to a point where there is no depth, little rigor and very little understanding of ''why'' instead of ''how.''
This is not your grandfather's program of study.
ELIOT WEISS Brooklyn, April 26, 2011
The writer is a mathematics teacher and the chess coach at Edward R. Murrow High School.
To the Editor:
Your article did not address the ''elephant in the room'' -- inflated grades in Advanced Placement courses. At the high school where I teach, it is rare for students in A.P. courses to receive a grade lower than a C. Educators need to acknowledge a disconnect between students receiving B and even A grades in an A.P. class but a 1 (on a scale of 1 to 5) on the A.P. exam.
When internal assessments are out of step with external assessments, something is wrong. Inflated grades lead parents to believe that their children are succeeding in rigorous courses and lead students to think that they are prepared for college.
Competitive-looking transcripts may earn a college admission, but too many of our students then face taking remedial classes or drop out. In the long run, these practices serve neither our students nor our profession.
AMY HANSEN Berkeley, Calif., April 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (91%); CURRICULA (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADE INFLATION (89%); CHILDREN (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



116 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
CHINA CREATES NEW AGENCY
FOR PATROLLING THE INTERNET
China's government said that it had created a new central agency to regulate the nation's Internet community, a move that appeared to complement a continuing crackdown on political dissidents and other social critics. PAGE A6 
NORTH KOREAN PRISONS GROW
North Korea's work farms and prison factories are the world's most notorious, according to human rights experts. Former inmates at the political labor camp at Yodok said they were frequently tortured and forced to watch the executions of fellow prisoners. PAGE A6
NATIONAL
TEA PARTY LICENSE PLATE DRAWS OPPOSITION
Since conservative Republicans pushed a bill through the Arizona Legislature that created a license plate to raise money for Tea Party groups in the state, the biggest opposition has suprisingly come from Tea Party members themselves. PAGE A16
IMMIGRATION BILL IN FLORIDA
The Florida Senate approved a bill that would require the police to make ''a reasonable effort'' to determine the immigration status of people they arrest and jail, a provision critics say is an attack on legal and illegal immigrants. PAGE A17
New York
CONSTRUCTION EXECUTIVES CHARGED WITH FRAUD
Four veteran construction executives were charged with stealing tens of millions of dollars from investment firms, insurance companies and law firms as they built corporate offices in buildings across Manhattan. PAGE A26
GUIDE FOR MEMORIAL NAMES
The National September 11 Memorial and Museum issued a clear and navigable computerized guide to the location of every name inscribed on the bronze parapets that are being installed along the perimeters of the pools where the World Trade Center towers once stood. PAGE A25
BUSINESS
INTEL INCREASES CHIP'S SPEED
AND LOWERS POWER USE
Intel announced that it has found a way to make computer chips that run as much as 37 percent faster in low-voltage applications and that reduce power consumption as much as 50 percent. PAGE B1
OBITUARIES
RICHARD CORNUELLE, 84
He was a libertarian writer whose best-known book, ''Reclaiming the American Dream,'' championed volunteerism as a means of addressing social problems like poverty, unemployment, delinquency and urban blight. PAGE B13
SPORTS
DODGERS OWNER CONFRONTS
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
Frank McCourt, the Los Angeles Dodgers owner, appeared to be moving closer to a legal confrontation with Major League Baseball by sending two letters that accuse Bud Selig, the league's commissioner, of causing the team's financial distress by not approving a pending local television deal with Fox. PAGE B14
ARTS
AN 'AMERICAN IDOL' JUDGE HEEDS HER OWN ADVICE
In just a couple of months, Jennifer Lopez has become the most cogent, sensible and helpful judge ''American Idol'' has ever had. PAGE C1
HOME
USE OF HOME SAFES INCREASES
Manufacturers of residential safes report an increase in sales. Recent events are prompting more people to keep their valuables at home. PAGE D1
THURSDAY STYLES
WEDDING DRESS PUTS DESIGNER IN THE SPOTLIGHT
Sarah Burton is now a star, thanks to the wedding dress she created for the commoner Kate Middleton. PAGE E1
OP-ED
Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A29
Gail Collins PAGE A29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); PRISONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); BASEBALL (84%); APPROVALS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); LICENSES & PERMITS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INSURANCE (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); MICROPROCESSORS (68%); COMPUTER CHIPS (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); LAWYERS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); REALITY TELEVISION (63%); WRITERS (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (82%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



117 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Business Travel; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: For Many Carriers, Business Class Is the Premium Choice

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE NEGRONI

 BODY:
TO the question, what does a person get when spending upward of $16,000 for a first-class international airline ticket, the answer is: more than ever. Private lounges with hot food and drink, spalike bathrooms and concierge services. Courteous guards to help passengers through a separate security checkpoint and a private car to whisk them to the plane.
Then there is the first-class flight itself. Lufthansa serves caviar on bone china. Singapore Airlines has private sleeping suites. On Emirates, there are showers. ''The entire experience should rival flying in a private jet,'' said Patrick Brannelly, an executive with Emirates. 
While these airlines continue to provide over-the-top treatment for international first-class customers, the first-class section itself is getting smaller as airlines make way for larger and more popular business-class sections. The configuration of Lufthansa's new A380 jumbo jet is illustrative. The plane accommodates 526 travelers, 98 of them in business class and just eight in first.
''There's been a clear trend for long-haul international flights to reduce or eliminate first-class cabins in all but the most lucrative and competitive routes,'' said Bryan Saltzburg, general manager of TripAdvisor Flights. In fact, it's the rare customer who will spend the extra money for first class, said Vern Alg, an airline consultant specializing in cabin interiors. These passengers will be a ''crown prince or movie stars or somebody eccentric with a lot of money.''
Emirates, Singapore and Lufthansa's ''rarefied sense of style'' enables them to play at a level above everyone else, said Jay Sorensen, an airline consultant in Wisconsin. ''These are financially successful airlines, and that's a good indicator of sound business practice.''
Maurice Flanagan, executive vice chairman of Emirates, confirms that the airline's investment in prestige accommodations has paid off because first-class passengers are ''less impacted by fuel prices than price-sensitive passengers who tend to cut back on air travel when fuel costs rise.''
That calculus keeps some airlines offering both first- and business-class seats. ''For the foreseeable future, we see a market for U.S. long-haul first-class cabins,'' said Gus Whitcomb, communications manager for Cathay Pacific Americas.
Far more common than keeping two premium sections, however, is the decision by international carriers to scale back and concentrate on just one -- business class. Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Air New Zealand and Air Canada have eliminated first class entirely, while Qantas, Air France and British Airways have removed many first-class seats from their airplanes, according to research by TripAdvisor Flights.
''To carry around a first-class product on a wide-body airplane for the few people who buy it is a huge cost,'' said Mr. Alg. ''Nobody buys those seats, but business-class seats are sold to businessmen.''
In the 1990s, Mr. Alg, then an engineer with Continental, helped the airline offer a more affordable alternative by eliminating first class and creating the ambiguously named Business First. ''First class at a business-class fare'' is how Mark Bergsrud described it. A vice president with United, which recently merged with Continental, Mr. Bergsrud remembers that those first business-class seats were wider than coach seats, reclined more and had personal screens in the armrests, but he says a lot has changed in seat technology since then.
''One thing that is very clear is that the product standard for international business class has improved dramatically,'' Mr. Bergsrud said.
Airlines spend a lot of money on business-class seats -- as much as $150,000 each. ''Many of the business-class seats we see today are better than the first-class seats from 10 years ago,'' Mr. Saltzburg said. They come equipped with a wide selection of entertainment channels, massage cushions and power outlets for electronics. Most significant, many of the seats turn into beds.
''When the lie-flat seats made their way from first class to business, that was the start of the change,'' said Matt Daimler, founder of SeatGuru.com. Delta Air Lines says the seats eliminate the difference between first and business. Its premium section is called BusinessElite, and Chris Kelly, a spokeswoman for the airline, said, ''It's absolutely a first-class experience.''
Over the last year, Shane Chapman of the Ovation Travel Group, which specializes in travel for lawyers, said he had seen sales of first-class seats drop, though business-class ticket sales remained strong. His customers tell him, ''It's worth the extra two to three thousand dollars to arrive well rested,'' he said.
According to the International Air Transport Association's premium traffic monitor, the number of people traveling in premium seats in February increased by nearly 8 percent while economy ticket sales grew by just 3.3 percent. Strong sales of business-class tickets are attributed in large part to corporate expense policies that allow workers to buy business class but prohibit first-class travel.
Calin Rovinescu, chief executive at Air Canada, says the next transition will focus on a different customer -- economy travelers who may be willing to pay something less than a business-class fare for extra legroom or a better meal.
''The marketplace is asking the question, ought there be something between business class and economy, such as premium economy?'' Mr. Rovinescu said. A number of airlines are already offering it: Continental with economy plus, Delta and Icelandair with economy comfort and Virgin America with main cabin select.
''In a way, everything has shifted down a full rung,'' said Mr. Daimler of Seatguru. ''I'm excited about the death of first class, because it's giving the rest of the passengers another choice. Comfort is more in reach of the common man.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CAVIAR DREAMS: Lufthansa is one of the few airlines that specialize in first-class accommodations.
 LUXURIOUS: Emirates seeks to rival private jets (showers are also available). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (94%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (58%); AIR CANADA (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (50%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (94%); AIZ (ASX) (58%); AIR (NZX) (58%); AC.A (TSX) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); C6L (SGX) (57%); AF (PAR) (50%); AF (AMS) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (68%) SINGAPORE (88%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



118 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine Talks Shale With Texas

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Clifford Krauss contributed reporting from Houston.

 BODY:
KIEV, Ukraine -- This former Soviet state in Eastern Europe is betting that the path toward energy independence runs through Fort Worth.
By drilling in the scrubland and vacant lots in and around the city of Fort Worth, American energy companies have demonstrated that they can produce natural gas economically from shale -- a form of sedimentary rock previously considered all but worthless.
Now, despite environmentalists' opposition to the water-polluting potential of the shale-gas extraction method known as fracking, the technology's proponents are heading abroad. And Ukraine, which sits atop tantalizingly large shale deposits, is eager to do business.
Already this year, Ukraine has opened talks with three Western energy giants -- Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Shell -- to search for shale gas. Ukraine's Parliament has also passed investor-friendly legislation aimed at opening its domestic natural gas market to shale gas producers. 
Meanwhile, the nation's president, Viktor F. Yanukovich, has signed a shale-gas exploration agreement with the United States and reached an accord with the European Union on energy transport that opens Ukraine's pipeline system to Western companies.
Along with the energy companies courting it, Ukraine sees shale as potentially altering the geopolitics of natural gas, lessening global reliance on Russia and the Middle East. Today, just three countries -- Russia, Iran and Qatar -- hold 54 percent of the world's conventional gas reserves. But shale is found in many other places, including Eastern and Western Europe, India, China and Australia.
A 2009 study by the International Energy Agency estimated the world holds nearly as much gas recoverable through new techniques like shale gas, or another known as coal-bed methane, as through the traditional sort obtained by conventional drilling. The agency estimated there might be 380 trillion cubic meters of natural gas that could be recovered through these new techniques, compared with 404 trillion cubic meters obtainable through traditional means.
The energy agency has also predicted that unconventionally produced gas will rise from 12 percent of the global total in 2008 to 19 percent in 2035.
Although Ukraine already produces some natural gas by conventional means, it remains highly dependent on imports from Russia's state-owned gas monopoly, Gazprom, the world's biggest producer. Twice in the last five years, Gazprom has halted supplies to Ukraine in politically tinged pricing disputes.
And yet, as a legacy of the Soviet era, Ukraine controls the pipelines through which Gazprom transports its natural gas to its Europe. It is a mutual dependence that at times seems more like a standoff: Russia has the gas; Ukraine has the pipes.
Ukraine, by finding a greater source of its own natural gas, would be hoping to reduce Russia's leverage in that relationship.
The shale gas industry, for its part, could erode Russia's once seemingly untouchable monopoly pricing power on natural gas, if the industry can duplicate Fort Worth-scale results from a belt of shale deposits in Poland and Ukraine that in some cases lie right under the pipelines carrying Gazprom's gas.
Right now, Russia produces about 40 percent of the natural gas imported into the European Union, selling it mostly under long-term contracts that are linked to the price of oil -- which has been soaring lately.
Gazprom says its average wholesale price in Europe in the first quarter of 2011, the latest figures available, was $346 for 1,000 cubic meters. By comparison, the benchmark price for natural gas in the United States at the Henry Hub in Louisiana last month averaged $153.30 for the same volume.
Ukraine's national energy company pays 30 percent less than the European rates, through an agreement Mr. Yanukovich signed last year to let Russia use a naval base on the Crimean Peninsula for 25 years. But that is still higher than the price in the United States.
''Unconventional gas will be a game-changer throughout Europe,'' said James Hill, vice president at BNK Petroleum, one of the companies that pioneered the technology in the United States and is now expanding in Europe. ''We're the mouse that roared.''
Poland is three or so years ahead of Ukraine in its shale gas industry, with exploration wells already drilled. But it is less sensitive to Gazprom's monopoly, because Poland consumes far less gas than Ukraine. And Poland is geographically less critical for the transmission of natural gas to Western Europe than Ukraine, which transports about 80 percent of Gazprom's exports to Europe.
Ukraine has four major, largely unexplored shale deposits, according to Valerii Berezhnoi, chief geologist for Vikoil, a Ukrainian seismic exploration company studying unconventional natural gas deposits. Nobody pretends to know how much gas they might hold. But as energy companies speculate on Ukraine's potential, they point to the deposits that lie under Fort Worth, called the Barnett Shale.
Production from Barnett has grown in a decade from almost nothing to 133 million cubic meters a day. That is more than the approximately 109 million cubic meters that Ukraine imports a day from Russia.
Signaling a shift toward support for shale gas development, Ukraine's minister of energy and coal, Yuri A. Boiko, met with American shale gas executives in Houston this year and announced a once far-fetched sounding goal for Ukraine to become self-sufficient in natural gas.
''We understand that American science is rich in this field,'' Mr. Boiko told an audience of mostly Western energy company executives at a conference on shale gas in Kiev last month -- the first such gathering for the industry in Ukraine. ''We would like to attract this technology, and we would like to attract partners,'' he added.
Exxon Mobil, which bolstered its unconventional gas expertise with the purchase of the American shale developer XTO last June, signed a memorandum of understanding with the Ukrainian government earlier this year, formalizing negotiations to begin exploring or drilling. XTO was a pioneer of the Barnett shale play under Fort Worth. Ukrainian officials are now in similar talks with Chevron and Shell.
Shale, the ossified mud from the bed of ancient seas, is prized if it is stained dark gray or black from imbedded organic material. A shale gas strike has none of the drama of an oil gusher. Drilling teams pull core samples to the surface. If rich in gas, the rock will fizz gas in water, like an Alka-Seltzer.
Companies produce industrial volumes of shale gas through hydraulic fracturing -- or fracking. The process releases natural gas from shale by blasting the rock with water, sand and chemicals to create cracks through which the gas flows.
Because fracking often produces wastewater laced with toxic substances, it has become a target of environmental protests worldwide. In France, the National Assembly next week will debate a proposal to ban the practice, as opposition heats up ahead of a presidential election next year.
So far in Poland, protests have been small. Because the industry is in its infancy in Ukraine, the public's attitude there is still mostly unknown.
Jack P. Williams, the president of Exxon's XTO Energy unit, told a conference last fall that realizing shale gas's potential abroad will depend on addressing environmental concerns in the United States. ''Getting this right is vital not just to U.S. jobs and energy supply,'' he said, ''but also to our ability to pursue these same opportunities globally.''
Gazprom, meanwhile, has so far been silent on Ukraine's negotiations with Exxon, Shell and Chevron. In fact the company's officials rarely mention shale gas in public. A Gazprom spokesman identified remarks made in a speech by the chief executive, Aleksei B. Miller, to a business convention in Cannes last year, as the most comprehensive so far.
In that talk, Mr. Miller dismissed the technology as environmentally unsound and expensive, and said that shale gas would affect only the margins of Gazprom's business -- characterizing shale as merely an appetizer to Gazprom's main course.
''If you fell for foie gras,'' he told the audience in France, ''it does not mean that buttery soft tenderloin steaks grilled to your taste are made redundant.''
More recently, shale gas wildcatters at the Kiev conference said they could not be more pleased with Gazprom's behavior. By keeping natural gas prices in Ukraine and elsewhere in Europe higher than gas prices in the United States, they said, Gazprom is making shale exploration in Eastern Europe look all the more profitable.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a Ukraine field is analyzed seismically for natural and shale gas deposits. Above, a worker picks up geophones and seismic cables. (B1)
Trucks collecting seismic data in Ukraine, which sits atop large shale deposits and is eager to learn how to extract natural gas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: Hope Built on Rock: Ukraine and Poland, heavily reliant on natural gas from Russia, hope that shale rock deposits can yield gas on a scale comparable to levels that were rapidly achieved in the United States. (Source: Energy Information Administration)
 MAP (Source: U.S. Energy Information Admin.) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); METHANE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (60%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (65%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (65%); GAZP (RTS) (65%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (65%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (65%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (65%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (65%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); QATAR (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



119 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Claiming Fraud in A.I.G. Bailout, Whistle-Blower Lawsuit Names 3 Companies

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The first known whistle-blower lawsuit to assert that the taxpayers were defrauded when the federal government bailed out the American International Group was unsealed on Friday, joining a number of suits seeking to settle the score on losses related to the financial crisis of 2008.
The lawsuit, filed by a pair of veteran political activists from the La Jolla area of San Diego, asserts that A.I.G. and two large banks engaged in a variety of fraudulent and speculative transactions, running up losses well into the billions of dollars. Then the three institutions persuaded the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to bail them out by giving A.I.G. two rescue loans, which were used to unwind hundreds of failed trades. 
The loans were improper, the lawsuit says, because the Fed made them without getting a pledge of high-quality collateral from A.I.G., as required by law.
''To cover losses of those engaged in fraudulent financial transactions is an authority not yet given to the Fed board,'' said the plaintiffs, Derek and Nancy Casady, in their complaint, filed in Federal District Court for the Southern District of California.
The lawsuit names A.I.G., Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank as defendants, but not the Fed.
Senior Fed officials have stated repeatedly that they had to take unusual steps in 2008 because the global financial system was close to breaking down. The Casadys' lawyer, Michael J. Aguirre, argued that even so, the Fed was required to comply with its own governing statutes. He said that when the Fed bailed out a nonbank, it was required to secure the loan with the same liquid, high-quality collateral it required when lending to a troubled bank.
A spokesman for A.I.G., Mark Herr, said the Casadys' lawsuit was ''devoid of merit'' and said Mr. Aguirre appeared to be recycling old and discredited legal theories.
Separately, A.I.G. is now among the companies turning to the courts in hopes of recovering losses from 2008, and seeking restitution from some banks.
A spokesman for Goldman Sachs said he was not familiar with the Casadys' lawsuit and could not comment on it. A spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank declined to comment.
The litigation shines a critical light on the Federal Reserve's on-again-off-again power to bail out nonbanking institutions like Wall Street firms and insurance companies. The Fed first got that authority during the Great Depression, but Congress revoked it in 1958. And then, as the legal walls between banking and other financial services began to fall in the 1990s, Congress once again gave the Fed the power to make emergency loans to nonbanks.
The relevant language is contained in a single, murky sentence inserted in a bill passed the day before Thanksgiving in 1991, as members of Congress were rushing to catch their flights home. Former Senator Christopher Dodd added it at the request of Goldman Sachs and other Wall Street firms, which were still stinging from a major market crash in 1987 and eager to empower the Fed to step in if a similar problem happened again.
The Casadys' lawsuit says the resulting law needs judicial review because it went flying through Congress with little debate and now appears to be feeding high-risk behavior. Investors in nonbanks now expect that the Fed will open a safety net to catch them, should they falter, the suit contends.
''Congress did not show a legislative intent to convert the Federal Reserve into a bank for bailing out failed speculators,'' the complaint asserts.
The suit was filed under the False Claims Act, a federal law that permits private citizens to sue on behalf of government agencies if they believe they have knowledge of a fraud. The law gives people a chance to try to recover money for the government and, by extension, the taxpayers. Plaintiffs who succeed typically get a percentage.
Although the bailout of A.I.G. took place over many months and involved a total commitment of $182 billion, the lawsuit focuses on just part of it -- two emergency loans, totaling about $44 billion, made at the end of October 2008. The money was used to settle trades involving two big blocks of complex, mortgage-linked securities, some of which were underwritten by Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank, and guaranteed by A.I.G.
When A.I.G. went into a free fall in 2008, the Fed extended the two loans to buy up the troubled securities and put them into two special-purpose vehicles, Maiden Lane II and Maiden Lane III, for holding until the turmoil subsided. Earlier this year, the Fed allowed some of the impaired assets to be sold to undisclosed purchasers.
The Casadys say the Fed erred in making the loans, because it needed a pledge of high-quality collateral from A.I.G. and instead got a big portfolio of impaired assets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A California couple, Nancy and Derek Casady, are suing A.I.G., Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank over two federal loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA Z. PHELPS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); INSURANCE (60%); THANKSGIVING (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (71%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



120 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Business Travel; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Tough Rule Eliminates Most Tarmac Strandings

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
WHEN they get together, business travelers complain about the hassles of air transportation, but one big issue has abruptly dropped off the gripe list.
For the first time in years, almost no one is moaning about being stranded on an airport tarmac for three, five or even 10 hours in a plane full of people as cabin conditions steadily deteriorate while the pilot waits in vain for weather to improve so the plane can take off.
After years of anger among passengers, new federal rules that took effect in April last year have all but eliminated tarmac strandings.
Lee Wallace works for a global consulting firm and logs about 150,000 miles traveling on business each year. On the road, ''fellow travelers and I sit around the table at night and trade airline horror stories,'' he said. ''But these days, the complaints we have about flying, and there are a whole lot, no longer include being possibly stranded on a tarmac.'' 
Tarmac strandings typically occur in bad weather when planes are idled for three hours or more on airport aprons and ramps, waiting for takeoff. In recent years, as the air traffic system strained under demand that created increasing delays even in good weather, the problem grew.
In bad weather, with airlines reluctant to cancel flights and pilots under orders to try to wait it out until takeoff is possible, tarmac strandings occurred in increasing numbers. In 2007 and 2008, an average of 1,500 flights each year were stranded for at least three hours and sometimes much longer, the Transportation Department said.
Last year, the department decided to address the problem by imposing new rules for domestic airlines, the most notable of which set fines of up to $27,500 per passenger for flights that were stranded for more than three hours.
Airlines warned of dire consequences, including a huge increase in the number of pre-emptive cancellations as bad weather approached. Still, as quickly as you can say ''please fasten your seat belts,'' the tarmac-stranding problem went away.
From May 2010 to February 2011, the first full 10 months that the rule was in effect, airlines had only 16 tarmac strandings of more than three hours -- compared with 664 in the same period a year earlier, the Transportation Department said.
With those draconian potential fines hovering over their heads, ''domestic carriers have done a tremendous job of acclimating to the rule,'' said Kate Hanni, a real estate agent from Napa, Calif., who was on one of about 125 American Airlines flights stranded in various places for up to 10 hours as thunderstorms shut down the Dallas airport on Dec. 29, 2006. Ms. Hanni, one of 12,000 passengers stranded that day, subsequently organized a grass-roots movement called FlyersRights.org that employed publicity and political pressure to lobby the federal government to address the problem.
Airlines argued they did not need federal intervention. They pointed out, accurately, that even in the worst periods in 2007 and 2008, tarmac strandings accounted for only an infinitesimal percentage of the estimated 10 million flights a year.
But as Ms. Hanni and her supporters fanned the issue, the public became accustomed to seeing TV pictures and reading accounts of travelers struck for long periods on planes without food or water while babies wailed, air became fouled, toilets overflowed and tempers frayed.
Ms. Hanni quit her job in 2007 to organize her group, which would eventually claim 35,000 members, and lobbied Congress for passage of a so-called passengers' bill of rights to address tarmac strandings and other matters.
That legislation is embedded in the long-stalled bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration. Last year, however, the Transportation Department took the initiative and adopted the rules on its own, imposing fines for strandings in excess of three hours on domestic carriers. Then, after some international flights operated by foreign carriers sat for up to 12 hours on tarmacs at airports in December, the department applied the rules to foreign carriers too.
Airlines have warned that because of the rules, many flights that otherwise would have waited for an opportunity to take off in bad weather will instead be pre-emptively canceled, or that pilots of planes already in takeoff lines will scrub their flights and return to their gates well before three hours expire, to make sure they do not incur the fines.
The airline industry says it has policed itself. ''As the D.O.T. statistics demonstrate, airlines already have made many service improvements, and many of the regulations formalize procedures already in place'' to address issues like tarmac strandings, said Nicholas E. Calio, president of the Air Transport Association.
Last summer, a study on the tarmac rule by the Airline Zone, an airline economics consultant, warned that ''at least 200,000 passengers will be on more than 2,600 flights canceled directly and solely to comply with tarmac-delay regulations'' in the first year. In an update in March, Darryl Jenkins, a co-author of the study who has worked as a consultant to airlines, said that the rule was already having dire consequences.
''The rule works in ending tarmac delays, but at a very, very heavy price,'' including losses incurred by business travelers and companies unable to depend on flights, Mr. Jenkins said. He said there had been a ''staggering increase'' in the rate of cancellations during the bad weather in much of the country from last November through February.
There was a spike in cancellations during that time. According to the Transportation Department, 3.87 percent of flights were canceled in January 2011, compared with 2.46 percent in January 2009, before the rule took effect.
But the department said that flight cancellation rates for May to October of last year, when the rule was in effect but just before the period of exceptionally bad weather hit around the country, were actually lower than historical averages.
Current data are ''insufficient to reach any final conclusions on all effects of the three-hour rule,'' the agency said, adding: ''One thing, however, is absolutely clear -- tarmac delays in excess of three hours and the aggravation, stress and hardship they have caused have virtually disappeared.''
Some independent airline analysts insist that the rule is overkill and draws attention away from addressing the fundamental cause of air traffic delays, an outmoded air traffic control system.
''Kate Hanni doesn't want a solution, she just wants to beat up on airlines,'' said Michael Boyd, the president of the airline forecasting group Boyd Group International.
Mr. Wallace, the global consultant and frequent flier, however, said that so far, in his view, airline claims of severe consequences were ''unsubstantiated.''
''The number of cancellations did go up marginally in the first nine months of the rule,'' he said, ''but that can be attributed entirely to the very bad weather we had. None of the dire predictions from the airlines, the veiled threats of massive pre-emptive cancellations, came true.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TERMINAL DELAYS: Passengers delayed on a Jet- Blue flight in 2007. Now, instances of being stranded on grounded planes are down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOU MARTINS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); PASSENGER RIGHTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



121 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: All Locked Up

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
THE engineer in Danbury, Conn., is feeling more secure now that he has an 875-pound safe bolted to the floor of his den. The 52-year-old, who is a skeet shooter, wanted the 19.2-cubic-foot safe to lock up his seven shotguns, some of which are family heirlooms. But he also stores his wife's jewelry in there, as well as a stash of emergency cash and a backup hard drive for his computer.
''You know how women used to get hope chests?'' said the man, who insisted on anonymity for fear of tipping off thieves. ''Well, this is a man chest for my man cave.''
His $2,700 safe, which was installed in March, was a custom job: it has a high-gloss, hunter green exterior finish, brass hardware and a fawn-colored velour interior. 
''It was kind of like ordering a new car,'' he said. ''It looks great and gives me peace of mind.''
Manufacturers of residential safes -- companies like Liberty Safe, Sentry Group, Allied Safe and Vault and Brown Safe Manufacturing -- report an increase in sales to customers like the Danbury engineer. Recent events, including the mortgage crisis, the recession, tornadoes in the South and the earthquake in Japan, they say, are prompting more people to keep their valuables at home.
''We're hearing a lot of people say they are closing their safety deposit boxes and bringing their valuables and important papers closer to home, where they can get their hands on them quickly,'' said James Skousen, a spokesman for Liberty Safe, adding that his company had seen a surge in people buying safes to store gold and silver bullion bought as a hedge against the dollar.
In fact, sales of residential safes at Liberty, he said, have increased 40 percent since 2009, and spiked 25 percent in the first three months of this year. Other manufacturers and retailers of residential safes report similar trends: At Brown Safe Manufacturing, for instance, sales have risen 30 percent annually over the last three years, and sales of ''luxury,'' or very high-end safes, which make up 20 percent of the company's business, have gone up 30 percent in the last year as well.
Indeed, customers have an expanding range of products from which to choose. Safes are no longer just gunmetal gray boxes with locks -- they have a host of customizable features to satisfy owners' aesthetic desires as well as their security needs. There are also more safes that look like ordinary household items but have secret compartments, (or diversion safes, as they are known in the trade): not just the standard hollowed-out book, but less expected items like a fake head of lettuce or a can of soda, with space to hide that gold watch or diamond bracelet.
FOR many, the primary appeal of home safes is easy access. Two years ago, a 38-year-old office manager in Columbus, N.J., bought a 175-pound safe not because she feared economic Armageddon, but because she wanted a convenient place to lock up her jewelry.
''I didn't want to have to drive to the bank to get my jewelry out of a safety deposit box every time I dressed up to go somewhere,'' she said.
Her burgundy-colored safe, which has a gray, carpetlike interior and a capacity of two cubic feet, is bolted to the floor of her closet. Although her home already had an alarm system, she said, having a safe ''makes me feel more secure.''
''You can't just pick up that thing and walk out with it,'' she added.
Others are less concerned about burglars than the sticky fingers of those they know, including housekeepers and greedy relatives.
As Lynel Brown Berryhill, vice president of Brown Safe, in San Marcos, Calif., noted, ''Customers increasingly have been telling us they want a safe to prevent petty theft of jewelry and cash by their help,'' who may feel strapped these days because of the higher cost of gas and food.
Prices for residential safes start at about $20 for a basic fire-resistant lockbox about the size of a loaf of bread. But so-called luxury or estate safes might be as big as an armoire and cost as much as $100,000. Such a safe often has an upholstered interior, exotic hardwood shelving and a custom exterior finish.
''We just installed a safe in a guy's living room who wanted it to exactly match the color of his MacBook Air,'' Ms. Berryhill said.
Some of these safes also have biometric locks (which read fingerprints or irises), GPS antitheft systems (LoJack-like devices, in case someone manages to carry the safe away) and automatic watch winders (so expensive watches stored in the safe keep perfect time).
MOST people, however, are more concerned with basic security: how well does the safe protect their belongings from theft and fire?
Some manufacturers use standard industry ratings to communicate this to consumers. A safe can be rated B, C or E, for example, depending on how thick its doors and walls are; a safe with the lowest rating, B, has a door that is a half-inch thick and walls a quarter-inch thick. There is no third-party authority, however, that verifies these ratings.
But a safe can also bear a UL symbol, like a toaster or a coffee maker, meaning it was independently tested by Underwriters Laboratories. UL has dozens of ratings that indicate varying levels of theft and fire resistance. The designation RSC, or Residential Storage Container, for instance, signifies that the safe can withstand a five-minute attack with basic tools like crowbars and screwdrivers. A TXTL-60x6 safe, on the other hand, can withstand an hourlong attack with manual and power tools, blowtorches and eight ounces of nitroglycerin.
''Generally, the more letters and numbers in the rating, the more expensive the safe,'' said Mark Brasfield, owner and president of the Safe House in Nashville, which sells safes and moves them for people who are relocating.
When it comes to fire resistance, there are three UL ratings: 350 (as in degrees), for safes that get no hotter than that inside, and will protect paper documents; 150, for those that will protect film and magnetic tape; and 125, for those that will protect computer hardware, drives and disks. A time rating, ranging from 30 minutes to four hours, indicates how long the inside of the safe can maintain the designated temperature while the exterior is engulfed in flames. So a Class 125/1 hour safe, for example, will keep most belongings in fine condition for an hour in a raging fire.
A 59-year-old project manager for Motorola in San Diego knows the importance of fire-resistance. Everything he owned was destroyed in a wildfire in 2007, except for the contents of his 25-cubic-foot safe, which was guaranteed to keep the interior at 350 degrees for 90 minutes.
When he returned to the charred rubble that was once his house and opened the safe, he said, ''It was a very emotional moment,'' because the safe held ''personal items -- the photos, diploma and so on. A little of our prefire history had survived.'' All the important identification and financial papers he had stored inside were intact as well, as was his wife's jewelry and a computer backup (although some of the disks had melted).
D IVERSION safes, of course, are not fire resistant and do not even have locks. Their strength is pretense. They cost $5 to $100, and are designed to look like various household objects: a head of iceberg lettuce, a can of soda and a can of shaving cream. Cans, jars and aerosol containers found in pantries and bathroom cabinets are typical. These stealth safes also come disguised as other kinds of things, like surge protectors and clocks.
''They are great for hiding stuff like money and jewelry,'' said Annie Blanco, marketing coordinator for homesecuritystore.com, an online retailer of home security systems, based in Riverside, Calif.
But Paul Cromwell, a professor of criminology at the University of South Florida Polytechnic in Lakeland, who has interviewed scores of professional burglars in his research, said he is skeptical about their value. ''Burglars are looking online at these kinds of safes, too,'' he said. ''So they know what to look for.''
Hiding valuables in coat pockets or shoeboxes, in the freezer or buried in the dirt of potted plants, he added, isn't any better. ''You may think you're being clever, but these are the first places burglars look.''
Criminologists and law enforcement officials also advise against putting things inside toilet tanks and cereal boxes (where addicts tend to hide illegal drugs) and inside medicine cabinets (where thieves look for prescription drugs with resale value). So the last place you want to hide your diamond necklace or a roll of bills is inside an empty bottle of Oxycontin or Adderall.
Apart from a steel-clad safe, he said, the best place to store valuables is one that would take a thief considerable time and effort to find.
''Burglars want to spend as little time as possible in your home,'' he said. ''The average time a professional burglar will spend there is five minutes.''
Good options might include putting what you want to protect in a nondescript box surrounded by a pile of junk in the attic, or tucking it into the stuffing of one of a group of stuffed animals.
Or you could make your own diversion safe, by cutting pages of a book and stashing your treasures inside. Just make sure you put it on a shelf crowded with other books, and perhaps choose a title that wouldn't appeal to a thief -- say, ''Crime and Punishment.''
Gems on the Bookshelf
SAFES disguised as books cost $15 to $45 ready-made, but you can make one yourself for less. And because the D.I.Y. variety is made out of a real book, it tends to look more authentic than a fake one. To hide your stash of emergency cash and jewelry, follow these steps:
Choose a hardcover book with a title that a thief (or anyone else) is unlikely to pull from your bookshelf. An outdated almanac, for example, is probably a safer bet than ''The Joy of Sex.'' And consider how many pages the book has. The thicker the book, the more work it is to hollow out, but the more you can hide in it.
Other supplies you'll need include a box cutter, a ruler, a pencil, a sponge paintbrush and glue (pH-neutral is best).
Fold a piece of waxed paper over the front and back of the book (sort of like a dust jacket) to keep the covers clean. Then, with the sponge paintbrush, liberally apply glue around the edges of the book to make the pages stick. Leave a few pages in the front unglued to conceal the cavity. Put a heavy object on top of the book to compress the pages while the glue dries. Wait a couple of hours, or overnight.
Mark the area you wish to hollow out, using the pencil and ruler. Leave a border of at least a half-inch to an inch around the compartment.
Start cutting, but be patient: the box cutter will slice through only a few pages at a time, and pushing the blade through too many layers will leave you with messy, ragged edges. If you own a scroll saw or have a friend who does, the process will go more quickly.
Finally, brush glue on the interior edges of the cut pages and let the book dry for a couple of hours.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SAFEKEEPING: A hollowed-out book, above, can provide a hiding place for certain items. Others may warrant an actual safe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MUIR/GETTY IMAGES)(D1)
SAFE AND SECURE: James Skousen, top right, marketing director of Liberty Safe. Above left, one of his company's products. Above right, Lynel Brown Berryhill, vice president of Brown Safe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE FREY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
COLOR-COORDINATED: A safe from Brown's Estate line. The colors can be customized.
PANTRY PRIZE: Users of this safe, $21.95 from the Home Security Store, must take care at charity canned food drives.
FILED AWAY: In a gem safe from Brown, the compartments are made for jewelry.
 CAMOUFLAGE: The InvisiVault picture frame safe is $415 from the Home Security Store. (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (87%); CURRENCIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (65%)

COMPANY: SENTRY GROUP (55%); ALLIED FIRE & SECURITY CO (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3499 FABRICATED METAL PRODUCTS, NEC (55%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (55%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



122 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Was Big D's Path The Wisest One?

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

 BODY:
Last week, we published a case study that explored whether Big D Custom Screen Printing could become profitable by specializing in small T-shirt orders. After a year in business, the company had sales of $325,000 on which it suffered a nominal loss. Big D's co-founder, Darren Robbins, and his partner disagreed as to the best way to turn things around. His partner wanted to focus on large corporate accounts. Mr. Robbins believed Big D could thrive by targeting customers with small orders - as small as one T-shirt. The partners split (amicably) over the issue.
The April 2008 decision to take smaller orders, Mr. Robbins said, paid off almost immediately: ''My phone started ringing off the hook.'' In 2009, Big D's sales were $675,000, he said, and they hit $900,000 the following year. He also said the company, which has 12 employees in Austin, Tex., is now profitable. And about a year ago, it opened two-employee branches in Los Angeles, Chicago, and southwest Michigan. More recently, Big D expanded to Las Vegas as well. Meanwhile, Mr. Robbins said the economy forced many of his competitors to go out of business -- and to sell their equipment at a loss on Craigslist. 
Reader comments were generally supportive of Big D's strategy. However, a few expressed doubts about the company's chances for success. In a brief interview, Mr. Robbins responded to the concerns.
Q. John Olson, chief executive of Graystone Industries, a pond and fountain supply business, said Big D's niche focus would result in inefficiencies. Does that concern you?
A. I don't know that we ever set out to run the most efficient shop in town. But we have managed to stay busy, profitable, and grow at a comfortable pace.
Q. A commenter speculated that your decision to post your prices on Big D's Web site could spark a price war that would eliminate your competitive edge? Has that been an issue?
A. No, though my partner worried about that. At worst, some of our competitors sent us nasty e-mails about our methods. Some of them later went out of business - and sold us their equipment.
Q. Another reader suggested you needed to better understand your material and labor costs and noted that getting the colors right on a one-shirt order could result in enormous waste.
A. Figuring our labor and material costs is quite simple, and something I do regularly to make sure our profit margin and future projections stay on-target. Based on that, I was confident we could maintain our large clients while working proactively to procure a greater number of small-to-medium ones. Additionally, with a seasoned staff and well-maintained equipment, our spoilage is minimal. Besides, we don't begin printing on client stock until we achieve 100 percent print quality on low-cost test sheets.
Q. Reader Joe Kelly wondered whether your smaller customers give you repeat business, or eventually increase the size of their orders? Do you track that?
A. Yes. Small-order customers account for roughly 60 percent of our return business. Just as important - if not more - their positive word-of-mouth accounts for 75 percent of our new customers, including some of our largest.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CASE STUDIES (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRICE CUTTING (62%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



123 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Business Travel; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2026 words

HEADLINE: A Return to Spending And the Front Rows

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
BUSINESS travelers are back, and the airlines are eager to court them again.
Whether they are small-business owners, sales representatives or corporate executives, business travelers these days are more often found at the front of the plane than at the back, where cuts in travel budgets confined them during the recession.
The restrictive company policies that banned business-class travel, limited lodging to three-star hotels and replaced three-day sales conferences in Las Vegas with virtual meetings via conference calls have all but disappeared. The years of chasing costs have given way to a rebound in travel as the economy picks up.
The airlines have gleefully greeted the return of their premium travelers and are fighting more fiercely than ever for their loyalty with new business-class seats, refurbished business lounges and improved service on board. 
Eric Shaver, who logs about 100,000 miles a year with United Airlines, said he had seen evidence of this trend this year. It has been harder to get upgraded to first class these days because so many frequent fliers are crowding the air.
''The true warriors are out there, but so are the vice presidents and the sales people and the other status fliers,'' said Mr. Shaver, a managing director for a consulting and training firm called Kensei Partners. ''On a flight back from London last year, there were five rows of empty seats. A month ago, the flight was packed. Budgets had been cut to the bone. But you can't keep your people on the bench forever.''
While the grim days of traveling on a shoestring are largely over, business travelers remain cautious. The stock market has regained its losses and Wall Street is thriving, but unemployment remains high and the risks posed by high energy prices loom over airlines and their passengers.
And air travelers may also have to contend with heightened security measures -- the State Department has alerted American citizens about the higher risk for anti-American violence after the death of Osama Bin Laden.
Still, the rebound in business travel has proved a huge relief for airlines, hotels and car rental companies battered by the recession and the financial crisis. Thanks to growing demand, the airlines have been raising fares in recent months, in part to offset rising fuel costs.
''Companies realize they had to get back on the road,'' said Richard Anderson, the chief executive of Delta Air Lines.
''Everyone retrenched in 2008 and 2009, and companies made their earnings in cost-cutting and productivity gains,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''But as we moved into 2010, the earnings growth really had to come from revenue growth. This meant that manufacturing companies and technology companies and others had to get out there and grow their business.''
Last year, corporate travelers accounted for 36 percent of the domestic travel market, which includes revenue from airlines, hotels, car rental agencies, trains and cruises, with spending totaling $255 billion, according to PhoCusWright, a market research firm. That compares with spending of $233 billion in 2009. That year, corporate travelers accounted for just 33 percent of the total market.
Corporate spending still remains below its prerecession levels. In 2008, the corporate market accounted for 38 percent of all travel revenue, with $274 billion in spending. But it is forecast to grow this year and in 2012 by 6 percent each year, to reach $288 billion, according to PhoCusWright.
''There is a pent-up need for people to meet face to face again,'' said Mark Ziegler, a corporate travel manager for a California technology firm.
Lane Dubin, general manager of American Express Global Business Travel, said, ''Companies have come to the realization that opportunities were left on the table, and they had cut back too much during the recession.''
But while companies have sent their managers back on the road, there remain significant hazards on the horizon. Energy costs are rising, with oil prices once more surging above $110 a barrel in recent weeks. The International Monetary Fund, meanwhile, has warned about serious risks in many developed economies, where real estate prices remain depressed.
''We will certainly have a better year for business travel, but the question is how high is high,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester Research. ''Will the return of business travelers be as strong as the industry had hoped or expected? I wonder. The reality of high fuel costs, uncertain earnings and the weak dollars could potentially slow down the growth.''
In fact, the higher fuel costs may have already put a damper on travel. The International Air Transport Association pointed out in its latest monthly report that the growth in first- and business-class travel had slowed in recent months. It grew by 7.7 percent in February over the period a year earlier, less than the 8.1 percent growth registered the previous month.
The growth for economy seat sales slowed too -- with travel demand for coach rising 3.3 percent in February against 4.9 in January.
Douglas Quinby, a market analyst at PhoCusWright, said that while leisure travelers benefited from the drop in business travel in 2009, they were now being squeezed out by business passengers willing to pay more for their tickets.
That has allowed the airlines to successfully pass fare increases on to their customers, especially after a wave of industry mergers left fewer airlines to compete.
Business travelers paid $462 for a round-trip domestic ticket on average last year, up from $432 in 2009. On international flights, the average round-trip ticket was $3,590, up from $3,350, according to figures compiled by American Express. (Here too, both prices remained below the 2008 level of $492 and $3,910 respectively.)
''The yo-yo dynamics of the business travel market is reverberating across the board,'' Mr. Quinby said. ''The rising business demand along with rising oil prices is actually a worrisome cocktail for the leisure market.''
Ami Kassar, who runs a business-loan consulting firm in Philadelphia, said that rising airfares had led him to cut back on some travel this year. Last week, for instance, he put off a trip to Atlanta when he could not find anything for less than $600.
''I try to be as careful and cautious about money as possible,'' said Mr. Kassar, who travels about once a month. He now flies mostly on Southwest Airlines because it does not charge passengers to change their travel dates.
Still, the growth in the corporate travel market has been a shot in the arm for the airlines, where revenue has grown for each of the last 15 months, according to the Air Transport Association, a trade group. After a decade littered with steep losses and bankruptcies, the struggling airline industry returned to profitability last year. It is also expected to post a profit this year, despite higher oil prices.
''The fact we are talking about a year in triple-digit fuel prices and it is not absolute doomsday is a wonderful day for the industry,'' said John Heimlich, the chief economist at the Air Transport Association.
Some experts point out that the demand for corporate travel remains solid.
''The tailwinds that we have going with us are that while consumer confidence is good, corporate confidence seems to be very strong,'' said Michael W. McCormick, the executive director of the Global Business Travel Association, a trade group, who pointed out that business travelers were often a good leading indicator for the economy.
The airlines have embraced the return of their most valuable customers and are fighting for their loyalty more fiercely than ever. In that battle, the airlines have upgraded their business cabins with plusher seats, flatter beds, tastier meals and better wines. And they are trotting out new services aimed at their business clients.
''We run our airline with the business traveler in mind, and our business travel mix provides more stable demand even in times of rising fares,'' Jeff Smisek, the chief executive of United Continental Holdings, said on a recent conference call.
United Airlines is installing flat-bed seats in many of its planes flying international routes, including Boeing 777s and 747s. Continental, which has merged with United, recently said that all its 757-200 jets had been outfitted with lie-flat seats in business class.
Delta, for its part, is spending $2 billion to enhance its services, including upgrading its cabins with new business-class seats that recline fully. As part of that program, Delta's regional jets will also get a separate first-class cabin.
Even airports lounges where travelers can unwind or catch up on their e-mails are getting a makeover. American Airlines has embarked on an exhaustive program to revamp all its Admirals Club business lounges.
Business travelers, to be sure, still have to contend with the various hassles of modern travel, from long airport security lines to delayed or canceled flights.
Even there the airlines are eager to step in. Some are working on smartphone applications that would enable travelers to manage their own journey. For instance, passengers will soon be able to rebook their tickets directly from their phones.
In a not-too-distant future, thanks to location services embedded in most smartphones, analysts foresee that airlines might also be able to track down passengers stuck in traffic on their way to the airport, or rushing to find a gate. They could offer, for instance, to automatically get them on the next flight or provide a map of the airport terminal, according to Jim Davidson, the president and chief executive of Farelogix, which provides ticket distribution services to airlines.
American Airlines said it had expanded an exclusive meet-and-greet personalized service, first conceived for celebrities, because of increased demand from business travelers over the last two years.
For $125, American helps speed its customers' journey through the airport, from the curbside, through security and onto the plane. This service, called Five Star, was initially planned for three airports but has been expanded to 14 locations thanks in part to its popularity with business passengers, said Nancy Knipp, president of American's Admirals Club.
''People are very conscious of their time,'' she said. ''They want to be effective.''
While hotels and airlines are fighting over these corporate accounts, the travelers themselves are not entirely out of the woods, said Ron DiLeo, the executive director of the Association of Corporate Travel Executives. After the cutbacks, some corporate travel managers remain reluctant to completely open up the travel purse.
Mr. DiLeo said business travelers were often making their own way to the front of the plane. Some use their personal frequent-flier miles or buy an upgrade on their own dime. Airlines, meanwhile, are seeking out some travelers and offering them upgrades. ''The airlines are playing to their loyalty base,'' Mr. DiLeo said.
Simon Talling-Smith, the executive vice president for the Americas at British Airways, said he noticed a wide range of attitudes toward dealing with tighter budgets than in 2008. ''They vary from those policies that really see the value in their employees ready to do business, which translates bluntly into a good night sleep, and others that are enforcing a coach policy,'' he said.
This explains, he said, the success of intermediate classes that are offered by some airlines, including British Airways, such as ''premium economy,'' which offers more room than in coach but for a fraction of the cost of business class.
''Companies are traveling more, there is no doubt, but corporations are still cost-conscious and are still interested in optimizing their travel dollars and controlling their travel spend,'' said Mr. Dubin, of American Express. ''They understand they need to travel much more smartly.''
Cautious or not, Bernie Tenenbaum said the skies were getting crowded again. ''Forget about finding a first-class seat, which is always sold out; I am having trouble finding an aisle or a window seat,'' said Mr. Tenenbaum, a private investor and strategic consultant. ''Planes are full.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F1)
 REFUGE: The new American Airlines Admirals Club at the San Francisco Airport's Terminal 2. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FORCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); SALES & SELLING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (79%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); PRODUCTIVITY (63%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: TRAVEL-ON LTD (72%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (72%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD H ANDERSON (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



124 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Employers Added 179,000 Jobs in April, ADP Says

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Private employers in the United States added 179,000 jobs in April, while the pace of growth in the services sector unexpectedly eased in April to its lowest level since August 2010, according to economic reports released on Wednesday. 
In the jobs report, the ADP Employer Services report fell short of economists' expectations for a gain of 198,000, according to a Reuters survey. March private payrolls were revised up to an increase of 207,000 from a previously reported 201,000.
The figures come ahead of the government's much more comprehensive labor market report on Friday, which includes both public and private sector employment.
''Certainly people will look into this and be pessimistic or cautious about Friday's numbers,'' said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer of Solaris Asset Management in Bedford Hills, N.Y.
''The breakdown from the release did show some strength in small and medium businesses. The weakness was actually in large businesses, and that is unusual. But certainly optimistic for a broader strengthening in employment.''
Friday's report is expected to show a rise in overall nonfarm payrolls of 186,000 in April, based on a Reuters poll of analysts, and a gain of 200,000 in private payrolls.
Economists often refer to the ADP report to fine-tune their expectations for the payrolls numbers, though it is not always accurate in predicting the outcome. The report is jointly developed with Macroeconomic Advisers.
In other report, the Institute for Supply Management said its services index fell to 52.8 last month, from 57.3 in March. That was well below economists' forecasts for 57.4, according to a Reuters survey.
A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector.
The report's new-orders index tumbled to its lowest level since December 2009, falling to 52.7, from 64.1. The employment gauge dipped to 51.9, from 53.7.
''It's a weak indication not only in the headline figure, but also in the worst possible place: the orders component,'' said Pierre Ellis, senior economist at Decision Economics. ''This is a sector that is supposed to be relatively smooth in terms of growth so if it turns out to be more than transitory, this would be a clear indication of destabilization in the economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (85%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (85%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



125 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Business Travel; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: The Amenity Travelers Want Most: Power for Their Gadgets

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
In the lavish days before the recession, there was an amenities arms race in the hospitality industry, as hotel chains replaced dated bedspreads with down comforters and duvet covers, mounted flat-screen TVs in all their rooms and competed to offer fancy toiletries and must-have accessories like iPod docking stations.
But with budgets tight, hotels are making more strategic investments, focusing on reliable Internet access, better lighting and more appealing dining options -- an approach that may turn out to be a better fit with business travelers' priorities. 
''It comes down to pretty simple stuff for business travelers,'' said Adam Weissenberg, leader of the hospitality and leisure practice at Deloitte & Touche. ''A lot of them want a comfortable bed, good lighting, a desk where you can actually do work and high-speed Internet access. Outlets you can plug into are also really important.''
That's not to say that concierges bearing iPads don't contribute to a hotel's cool factor. It's just that travelers arriving after a late flight or a long day are more focused on being able to recharge their own electronics.
''Most travelers, when they've been surveyed, don't really care much about the flat-screen TV,'' Mr. Weissenberg said.
John Wolf, a spokesman for Marriott, said that consumer fickleness about technology trends is one reason the company hasn't rushed out to buy 3-D HDTVs for guestrooms. Instead, Marriott is investing in upgrades to help manage Internet bandwidth at its hotels, overhauling breakfast buffets and literally rearranging the furniture in guestrooms.
''People want natural light -- natural light is huge,'' Mr. Wolf said. ''At the Residence Inn, we're putting the desk right in front of the window.''
Marriott has revamped the breakfast offerings at its Residence Inn and Fairfield Inn & Suites brands to include more hot items like a ham, egg and cheddar quiche and healthier options like oatmeal and fresh fruit, which Mr. Wolf said guests like to see as available, even if they choose a muffin or breakfast burrito instead. Last year, Hilton Hotels added waffle makers to the breakfast buffet at its Hampton hotels.
Giving business travelers food they can eat on the run is another growing trend. Hyatt Place offers a ''Grab 'N Go'' case stocked with sandwiches and salads, and the Market in the renovated lobby of the Grand Hyatt New York offers food and snacks from local purveyors around the clock.
Mr. Weissenberg said hotels are also responding to travelers' desire to maintain some type of exercise routine away from home.
To help those who wrestle with limited luggage space, Westin Hotels & Resorts has partnered with New Balance to lend guests workout gear, including shoes with new socks and disposable insoles. The complimentary program is available at 10 properties, but will be expanded to other hotels this year.
Sheraton Hotels teamed up with Core Performance to develop 30-minute workouts accessible through the hotel's video-on-demand system. Sheraton also offers a workout mat, stretch band and other equipment for an in-room workout.
But for all the focus on food and fitness, Mark Johnson, founder of HotelChatter.com, said feedback from the site's readers indicated that the No. 1 amenity travelers were clamoring for ''is power strips and plugs.'' ''Guests are bringing more and more hardware to the hotel room, and they're looking to juice it up.''
Although HotelChatter declared ''plug panels'' -- strips of outlets on desktops -- the must-have amenity of 2009, travelers' electrical needs continue to increase.
More innovative amenities HotelChatter has spotted include in-mirror televisions in the bathrooms of every guest room at the Charles Hotel in Boston, ''bed dials'' that adjust the mattress pressure at Hilton Garden Inn hotels and Mac Mini computers at Joie de Vivre's Citizen Hotel in Sacramento, which allow guests to download movies from sites like Netflix or Hulu.
But with travelers toting more of their own gadgets on trips, hotels are increasingly shifting their focus to help guests get the most out of the hardware they already have.
Many chains are scrambling to develop apps for mobile devices that will allow guests to order room service, request housekeeping, change their reservations or connect with a concierge. To make it easier for guests to print documents, Hilton Garden Inn offers a mobile printing service that sends files from a smartphone to a printer in the hotel business center for no charge.
Holiday Inn has been testing technology that will allow guests to use their phones in lieu of room keys, bypassing the front desk. After a customer makes a reservation, a text message is sent with a room number and a phone number to call upon arrival; once this call is made, the system validates the guest's phone number and responds with a tone that unlocks the door. More tests are planned for later this year.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LODGING (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TRENDS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); RESORTS (73%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (74%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (70%); RESIDENCE INN (58%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (58%); WESTIN HOTELS & RESORTS LP (50%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (85%); H (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (74%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (70%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



126 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Lackluster Earnings Daunt Investors

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks fell Wednesday, with commodity producers driving a third straight loss for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, as lower-than-estimated reports on service industries and job growth damped optimism in the economy. 
Caterpillar and General Electric, among companies most tied to the economy, fell at least 1.7 percent to lead declines in the Dow Jones industrial average. Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold and Occidental Petroleum fell more than 2.4 percent as oil and metal prices sank.
The S.& P. 500 lost 9.30 points, or 0.69 percent, to 1,347.32. The index has dropped every day since closing at the highest level since June 2008. The Dow average fell 83.93 points, or 0.66 percent, to 12,723.58 today. The Nasdaq fell 13.39 points, or 0.47 percent, to 2,828.23.
Oil for June delivery declined 1.6 percent to $109.24 a barrel in New York.
''We've seen some tempering of economic statistics,'' said Michael Mullaney, a money manager at Fiduciary Trust in Boston. ''We're going to see some sloppiness in the market until we get a clear indication on whether the sluggishness in economic activity is temporary. Employment growth is critical for the economy becoming self-sustaining.''
The S.& P. 500 extended its decline since April 29 to 1.2 percent. Oil, metal and chemical companies have led the market's slump. Silver futures have fallen 19 percent in three days. Oil has slumped 4.1 percent.
Stocks extended losses after a report showed that service industries in the United States expanded in April at the slowest rate in eight months as higher fuel prices prompted companies to cut back.
The Institute for Supply Management's index of nonmanufacturing companies declined to 52.8 last month, from 57.3 in March. Readings greater than 50 signal growth, and the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a gain to 57.5. A gauge of new orders dropped by the most since record-keeping began in 1997.
An ADP Employer Services report showed that employment at United States companies increased by 179,000 in April. The median estimate in a survey called for a 198,000 increase this month.
Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of construction equipment, dropped 2.2 percent, to $110.77. G.E. retreated 1.8 percent, to $20.27.
United States equities also followed European and Asian shares lower amid concern that central banks will need to lift interest rates to fend off accelerating inflation.
Interest rates were lower on Wednesday. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32, to 103 13/32, and the yield fell to 3.22 percent, from 3.25 percent late Tuesday.
Gauges of raw material and energy producers led the declines in the S.& P. 500 within 10 industries, falling at least 1.5 percent. Gold declined after a report that Soros Fund Management may have cut metal holdings. Crude oil dropped to a two-week low as a United States Energy Department report showed supplies surged.
Freeport-McMoRan, the largest publicly traded copper producer, slumped 3.9 percent, to $51.14.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FUTURES (79%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); NEW ORDERS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (73%); SILVER MARKETS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); STATISTICS (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (72%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (57%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (72%); ADP (NASDAQ) (63%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); OXY (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (72%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (72%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (72%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (72%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (72%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (72%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (72%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (72%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (72%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (72%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (72%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (63%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (57%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



127 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Dodgers Say Selig Caused Shortfall

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Frank McCourt, the Los Angeles Dodgers' owner, appeared to move closer to a legal confrontation with Major League Baseball on Wednesday by sending two letters accusing Commissioner Bud Selig of causing the team's financial distress by not approving a pending local television deal with Fox.
''The press is now discussing the Dodgers' ability to make its payroll at the end of May,'' said a letter, written by a lawyer for McCourt that was quoted by Bloomberg News. The letter added that there would be ''no issue involving the Dodgers' financial strength and viability'' if Selig had agreed to the Fox deal. 
Last month, Selig took control of the Dodgers and hired Tom Schieffer as his monitor to oversee and investigate the team's finances and operations. Selig is wary of approving the 17-year Fox contract because a $385 million upfront payment to McCourt would diminish the agreement's long-term value, said a person briefed on the contract
The total value of the Fox deal is $2.5 billion to $3 billion.
Selig met with Schieffer and Rob Manfred, an M.L.B. executive vice president, about the Dodgers on Wednesday in Milwaukee.
In a statement, Manfred said: ''Any financial problems faced by the Los Angeles Dodgers are a result of decisions by Mr. McCourt and his management team over a period of years. The pace of the commissioner's investigation has been adversely impacted by the Dodgers' failure to produce documents in a timely manner and by the complexity of the financial structures surrounding the club.''
The team responded with a statement saying that ''almost all of the documents'' requested by Selig's office are available in a virtual data room, and a complete report on the team's financial condition was provided to Schieffer and John McHale Jr., an M.L.B. official, last week.
The Dodgers have been able to pay players with help from a $30 million loan from Fox. But McCourt could run out of money for the second payroll payment at the end of May, The Los Angeles Times reported.
If the standoff between McCourt and Selig continues, and McCourt cannot pay his players, baseball could lend money to the team, a baseball official said. Selig approved loans totaling $40 million for the Rangers between 2009 and 2010, and one to the Mets for $25 million in November.
Financial intervention in the Dodgers could give Selig the leverage to force McCourt to sell the team, which has about $500 million in debt. Selig took an active role in ushering the Rangers into a sale but has not had to guide the Mets in the same way because that team's owners are in the midst of trying to sell a 49 percent stake in the team for up to $200 million.
If baseball does not help McCourt -- and he finds no other revenue source to pay his players -- the players would be able to file notices of default with baseball. If McCourt does not pay within 10 days after May 31, they could become free agents.
Michael Weiner, the executive director of the Major League Players Association, said in an e-mail, ''I am confident that all contractual obligations to players will be honored.''
Meanwhile, new documents about the Mets show that several sources of revenue at Citi Field fell 20 percent in 2010 to $143.9 million. The slide does not appear to be continuing this season, with attendance down 7 percent after 14 home games to an average of 27,022 fans a game.
Revenue from the ballpark's most expensive 10,635 seats took the biggest fall, tumbling 35 percent to $64.5 million from $99.3 million, according to financial statements filed with the city's Industrial Development Agency, which issued the tax-exempt bonds for Citi Field. The decrease is not surprising given the team's poor on-field performance, and the impact the recession had on fans buying high-priced seats.
Concessions and parking had modest decreases; luxury suite rentals leaped 54 percent to $5.8 million; and advertising, the biggest source of revenue after club seats, was $47.9 million, up about $1 million.
The information is from documents filed by Queens Ballpark Company, a Mets subsidiary that leases the stadium from the I.D.A. The revenue they cite offer an incomplete picture of the Mets' situation.
The filing excluded gate receipts from about 30,000 seats, the sale of local and national broadcasting rights and expenses like the team's $140 million player payroll. Queens Ballpark's profit fell to $52.5 million last year from $98.7 million in 2009 -- still enough money to cover its bond payments.
The team, said a person with knowledge of its finances, is far from profitable. It lost $9 million in 2009, $51 million last year and expects to lose $60 million this year. Gate receipts, which flow to Sterling Mets LLC, the team's owner, fell from $181 million in 2009 to $115 million last season.
The Mets declined to comment on the financial report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



128 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 448 words

PERSON: Richard Cornuelle 

HEADLINE: Richard Cornuelle, Libertarian Author, 84

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Richard Cornuelle, a libertarian writer whose best-known book, ''Reclaiming the American Dream,'' championed volunteerism as a means of addressing social problems like poverty, unemployment, delinquency and urban blight, died on April 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. 
The cause was cancer, his wife, Elizabeth K. Fonseca, said.
Published in 1965, ''Reclaiming the American Dream'' was Mr. Cornuelle's first book. In it, he used the phrase ''independent sector'' to describe the network of existing voluntary associations -- foundations, churches, labor unions, trade groups and fraternal organizations -- that, he argued, could marshal their resources to solve a range of contemporary ills more efficiently than government could.
The book received wide attention, as did Mr. Cornuelle (pronounced cornell), whose political ideology -- neither undiluted conservatism nor undiluted liberalism -- defied easy classification. He was perhaps most accurately described as a classical liberal in the 19th-century sense of the term, advocating the rights of individuals while seeking to limit the reach of government.
Richard Charles Cornuelle was born on April 10, 1927, in Elwood, Ind. He earned a bachelor's degree from Occidental College in Los Angeles in 1948 and did graduate work at New York University, where he studied with the prominent free-market economist Ludwig von Mises.
In the 1950s, Mr. Cornuelle was vice president and editorial director of the Princeton Panel, a center for the study of American capitalism; he was later executive vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers.
He helped found several nonprofit organizations, including United Student Aid Funds (now USA Funds), which guarantees student loans.
Mr. Cornuelle's marriage to Sydney Walton ended in divorce. Besides his wife, Ms. Fonseca, whom he married in 1974, his survivors include three children, Suzanne Schutte, Jenny Krusoe and Peter Cornuelle, from his marriage to Ms. Walton; three stepchildren, Quina, Caio and Isabel Fonseca; and 12 grandchildren
His other books include ''De-Managing America: The Final Revolution'' (1975) and ''Healing America'' (1983).
Though the news media of the 1960s often described Mr. Cornuelle as a conservative, he later bristled at the term, his wife said on Friday. In any case, he took pains throughout his life to articulate his personal construction of the word.
As he told Life magazine in 1968, ''The notion that a conservative is indifferent to human problems is part of a myth -- the same myth that says the government is the only instrument that can solve social problems.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Cornuelle in 1968. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); STEPPARENTS (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (62%); CANCER (57%); LABOR UNIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT SECTOR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



129 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE TRADE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Greater Power Over Wall Street Banks, Left Unexamined

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest. Email: jesse@propublica.org Twitter: @eisingerj.

 BODY:
6:58 p.m. Updated
The most notable thing about the first news press conference ever of the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, last week was what wasn't discussed: banking regulation.
We hardly need more evidence that the most powerful banking regulator in the world, one that became even more powerful after financial reform was passed, is also the least examined. Mr. Bernanke's opening remarks were about monetary policy and the economy. When he answered questions, he repeatedly referred to the Fed's ''dual mandate'' - to keep inflation low and stable and to maintain full employment for the economy.
But that's not the Federal Reserve's true dual mandate. The Fed is indeed the steward of the economy, but it also has to regulate the financial system, making sure banks are safe and sound. 
In the years before the financial crisis, the Fed was a miserable failure in that role, a creature of the banks, not a watchdog. The news conference was an opportunity for Mr. Bernanke to demonstrate what the Fed had learned from the crisis about banking oversight. After all, a collapsed financial system does spectacular damage to an economy.
There's more to discuss about this now than ever. Under the giant Dodd-Frank package, the Fed was given an expanded regulatory role. The new consumer financial products regulator is housed within the central bank. The Fed also now officially oversees investment banks, which it had to rescue during the crisis. Congress broadened the Fed's remit to cover nonfinancial institutions deemed ''systemically important.'' Congress created a new role, the ''vice chairman of supervision,'' to raise the prominence and importance of its responsibility. (It remains unfilled.) Perhaps most important, the Federal Reserve is supposed to play a major role in taking over big banks that fail.
Banking supervision has always been something of a backwater at the Fed. Within the institution, the sexy stuff is monetary policy. That's where most of the resources and attention goes. The chairman and the board spend a disproportionate amount of their time on it, and monetary policy expertise largely dictates the selection of board members. Many question that mind-set.
''Either expressly or implicitly, the Fed permeates every part of the Dodd-Frank reform,'' says Dennis Kelleher, the chairman of Better Markets, a new Washington advocacy group that aims to be a Wall Street watchdog. ''Yet there is no indication that the leadership of Fed understands or is undertaking its new role as systemic risk regulator. It's not on the mind of the Fed chairman.''
Without much public comment, the Fed is making critical decisions about the banks today. It just ran a round of stress tests for the banking system in which most banks came up smelling like roses. Most big banks were allowed to pay dividends and pay back the government's Troubled Asset Relief Program money. Yet the economy is weaker than the Fed expected, and the real estate market, which makes up the bulk of banks' exposure, is having a second downturn. What gives the Fed so much confidence that the banks are properly valuing their assets and are adequately capitalized?
For a brief moment back in 2009, it was actually considered bizarre to give the Fed more power. Christopher J. Dodd, then the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, proposed creating a new financial regulatory infrastructure, stripping the Fed of its mandate.
Sadly, the bill was so dead on arrival it wasn't clear if even Mr. Dodd supported the Dodd bill. Nonetheless, removing banking regulation from the Fed's umbrella would have some clear advantages. Monetary policy is a pretty hard job. It might make some sense to split off regulation just to ease the burden.
And monetary policy can be in conflict with banking regulation. A central bank might prefer to shore up investor confidence and move on from a financial crisis without taking punitive action against wrongdoers, thinking that aggressive action might undermine faith in the system. Sound familiar to anyone?
Mr. Bernanke's news conference was also supposed to be a step toward realizing the Fed's new commitment to ''transparency.''
That's certainly welcome, but it has only gone so far. Congress repeatedly asked for more information on extraordinary actions taken by the Fed during the financial crisis, but was met initially with stonewalling. The central bank fought a lawsuit initiated by Bloomberg News to release data on what kinds of securities it bought during the financial crisis and from whom. When it lost and was finally forced to release the information, it did so in a fashion that it made assimilating the information difficult.
Earlier this year, when the Fed conducted its second round of bank stress tests, it made less information public than it had in the first round in 2009.
''Regulation needs accountability and transparency, and the Fed is just not set up to be accountable or transparent,'' says Mike Konczal, a fellow at the Roosevelt Institute, a liberal think tank focused on financial matters.
The sight of a Fed chairman answering reporters' questions in declarative English certainly was a departure from tradition. On Thursday, Bernanke is giving a speech on banking regulation. Let's hope that brings a comparable approach to regulation, which is ultimately far more significant.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 2011; May 6, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this column misspelled the surname of a Roosevelt Institute fellow who was quoted on the Federal Reserve's accountability and transparency. It is Mike Konczal, not Konzcal.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, The Trade column on the DealBook page on Thursday, about the Federal Reserve's banking regulatory role, referred incorrectly to Better Markets, whose chairman, Dennis Kelleher, commented on the matter. It is an advocacy group, not a lobbying group.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke at his first news conference, where he discussed the nation's economy, but not banking regulation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



130 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Gains on Colombia Send Trade Pacts to Congress

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Progress on a free trade deal with Colombia has cleared the way for the White House to seek Congressional approval of a package of trade agreements that includes pacts with South Korea and Panama, as Republicans have demanded. 
Obama administration officials said Wednesday that they expected technical discussions about the agreements to begin Thursday with Capitol Hill aides, the first step in the approval process.
President Obama has made increasing American trade a top goal of his economic agenda. The White House had hoped for quick approval of the largest deal, the South Korean agreement signed last December, but Republican lawmakers threatened to block it unless the White House also completed negotiations with Panama and Colombia.
After months of talks, the Obama administration settled with Panama last month after the Panamanian government passed a law permitting greater tax transparency.
Officials from Washington and Bogota reached a tentative agreement in early April, when Colombia outlined steps it would take to address American concerns over its high rates of violence involving labor leaders and union members. But the administration decided to wait until April 22, when the first of those steps took effect, before sending the agreement to Congress.
In a letter to lawmakers Wednesday, Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, said that while Colombia had more work to do, it was effectively putting in place the initial phases of the agreements on labor. Therefore, Mr. Kirk said, the administration felt confident in starting talks with lawmakers.
The House speaker, John A. Boehner, who has long pushed the president to send Congress all three trade deals together, applauded Wednesday's announcement.
''Now it's time we move to expand market access for American-made goods in all three of these nations,'' said Mr. Boehner, an Ohio Republican.
The administration also said it would act on concerns over access for American beef producers to the beef market in South Korea, an important issue for Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and other lawmakers.
The Agriculture Department will spend more to promote United States beef sales in South Korea and Mr. Kirk will request additional consultations with the South Koreans on opening their market once the free trade agreement takes full effect.
Mr. Baucus has demanded that South Korea allow the United States to export beef from older cows. South Korea is reluctant, partly because of concerns over outbreaks of mad cow disease several years ago.
The South Korea deal would support up to 70,000 jobs in the United States, the Obama administration said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); APPROVALS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); BEEF (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (74%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (67%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (67%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (67%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (62%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RON KIRK (78%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%) MONTANA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); COLOMBIA (96%); PANAMA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



131 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: A Brief Victory Lap Before Budget Fight Strains 'Unity' Call

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On Monday night President Obama welcomed dozens of Congressional leaders to dinner at the White House and expressed hope that they ''can harness some of the unity'' forged by the death of Osama bin Laden ''to confront the many challenges that we still face.'' On Thursday comes the biggest test of that, and few see much prospect of a dawn of bipartisanship.
While Mr. Obama heads to Manhattan to pay his respects at ground zero, his designated budget negotiator, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., will open talks at Blair House with six House and Senate leaders -- two Republicans and four Democrats -- on how to reduce the projected growth of deficits, for a savings of at least $4 trillion in the first decade. A deal would ease the way for reluctant members of Congress to vote this summer to increase the government's debt limit, as they must eventually do lest they provoke a financial crisis. 
Yet even before the news broke on Sunday night that American forces had killed the world's most feared terrorist -- igniting the burst of national pride and unity that Mr. Obama spoke of -- few people in either party saw much chance that he could reach a deal with House Republicans on spending and taxes any time soon, perhaps not before the 2012 elections. And Bin Laden's death has not altered expectations, even as Mr. Obama enjoys the predicted bounce in polls of his public support.
''I don't see it fundamentally changing the politics or the dynamic of the budget,'' said John Podesta, a chief of staff to President Bill Clinton and founder of a progressive research group, the Center for American Progress.
Because Republicans' and Democrats' differences on spending and taxes are so basic as to define their respective parties, they have ''very different strategies for the economy and investment by the federal government and how one controls the cost of health care,'' Mr. Podesta added. ''I don't think that any of that changes because Osama bin Laden has been killed.''
That calculation underscores the difficulty that Mr. Obama faces in pressing his advantage with Congress more broadly, and in fully coming out of the defensive crouch he was forced into after Democrats' big losses in the midterm elections last November. Mr. Obama's popularity rose slightly after December, when he defied expectations in a lame-duck session of Congress and won major bipartisan victories on tax cuts, repeal of the ''don't ask, don't tell'' law against openly gay people serving in the military and approval of an arms reduction agreement with Russia.
But his approval ratings soon inched back below 50 percent in national polls, dragged down again by economic issues -- now in the form of high gasoline prices averaging about $4 a gallon nationwide. In the wake of the Bin Laden news, Mr. Obama ''deserves a victory lap,'' said Tom Davis, a Republican strategist and former congressman from Virginia. ''But this will have no bearing on the budget negotiations. The big issues are going to continue to be the economy and the deficit.''
New polls since Sunday show that Mr. Obama indeed has a higher public approval rating, as well as higher marks for his handling of foreign policy and antiterrorism issues. But his marks on handling the economy remain depressed. And a week that began with the Bin Laden stunner will end on Friday with the monthly government report on unemployment for April; even if improved, it is likely to show that about one of 12 Americans remains out of a job.
The latest survey for The New York Times/CBS News found an 11-point jump since just last month in the percentage of Americans who approve of Mr. Obama's overall job performance -- to 57 percent from 46 percent. The president got similar increases for his handling of foreign policy, terrorist threats and Afghanistan in the poll. Yet a majority, 55 percent, disapproved of his handling of the economy -- a number virtually unchanged since April, allowing for the poll's margin of error.
And people in both parties, including White House advisers, agree that Mr. Obama's Bin Laden bounce in the polls is likely to be short-lived, like most such spikes in the wake of major crises or celebratory events. Meanwhile, the economy is expected to grow slowly at best, or perhaps stall again, and the presidential election is 18 months away.
Referring to Bin Laden, Mr. Davis said, jokingly, ''I was surprised they didn't keep him on ice and pull him out in October a year from now.''
No surprise, then, that even as Republicans have praised Mr. Obama for his leadership on the Bin Laden operation, they have dug in against him on budget issues. The House majority leader, Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican who is one of the budget negotiators, dared Mr. Obama this week to seek a House vote on the president's proposal for a ''clean'' measure to increase the federal debt -- without the companion package Republicans want making trillions of dollars in spending cuts in coming years. That way, Mr. Cantor said, the House would prove to the president that a clean bill is dead on arrival.
The White House has not raised expectations for the budget talks that Mr. Obama initiated and Mr. Biden will lead on Thursday morning.
It took weeks to wrap up earlier negotiations, which Mr. Biden also headed, on cutting about $38 billion in domestic spending just for the current year. The new phase is aimed at slicing more than $4 trillion from projected deficits over 10 to 12 years, including from Medicare and Medicaid, whose costs are driving the long-term projections of unsustainable federal debt.
''There will be no announcement after that meeting that a deal has been reached because this is a process,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, told reporters. ''But, you know, we expect progress to be made.''
The meeting will be the first on the budget between administration and Congressional officials since the lawmakers returned this week from a two-week recess. In that time, many House Republicans were assailed at home by constituents angered by the House budget plan, which eventually would turn Medicare into a voucher system and Medicaid into a block grant to states, with federal spending for both purposes cut deeply from projected levels.
The sense of Republicans' new vulnerability on Medicare has many Democrats sensing advantage -- in the 2012 campaigns if not in budget talks. Said Howard Paster, who was the chief legislative strategist early in the Clinton administration, ''That's almost as good for the Democrats as Bin Laden.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); APPROVALS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (77%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JOHN PODESTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



132 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Unrest Around the Arab World Endangers Turkey's Newfound Influence

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID; Reporting was contributed by Sebnem Arsu from Istanbul, Hwaida Saad and Nada Bakri from Beirut, and an employee of The New York Times from Damascus, Syria.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- Turkey faces a growing challenge from the tumult sweeping the Arab world to its booming economic stake in the region, newfound political influence and longstanding policy of permitting no problems to fester along its borders.
In a few short years, Turkey has emerged as the Middle East's most dynamic power. But weeks of Turkish diplomacy in Libya collapsed Monday, and Turkey's prime minister bluntly called for Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi to step down. A similar situation may await in Syria, where President Bashar al-Assad has personally promised Turkish leaders to undertake reform while persisting with his crackdown.
In neighboring Iraq, Turkey fears the inability of the government there to keep the country stable as the United States completes its military withdrawal. And Lebanon, where Turkey enjoys access to both Hezbollah and its foes, is now entering a fourth month without a government.
Before the so-called Arab Spring unleashed by revolution in Egypt and Tunisia, Turkey was a catalyst in an emerging realignment of the Middle East, charting a foreign policy often independent of the United States in a region bereft of any country that matched its political stature. Now the unrest on its borders is undermining years of diplomatic and economic investment, forcing Turkey to take a more assertive role as its vision of economic integration runs up against the threat of growing instability. 
''In the face of this unpredictable change around the Arab world, Turkish foreign policy is facing a major setback,'' said Sami Kohen, a columnist for Milliyet, a daily newspaper in Turkey. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan ''has started losing the leaderships in the Arab world that he trusted and considered important, one after the other.''
Syria, beset by a six-week uprising, may prove his greatest challenge, as it broadly echoes the experience of its Arab neighbors over the past four months. In Tunisia, Egypt and now Libya and Yemen, governments have resisted surrendering some power to stay in office, only to eventually face the prospect of losing all power. Syria's leader, too, is rebuffing calls for change.
''Outside actors possess little leverage,'' the International Crisis Group said Tuesday in a statement on Syria. ''Even countries that have developed close ties to Damascus, such as Turkey, are viewed with growing suspicion by officials who are increasingly paranoid and consider anything short of outright support an act of betrayal.''
In past weeks, Turkish diplomacy has been especially intense with Syria, which it considers its most immediate concern as a linchpin in its regional strategy of greater economic integration. Mr. Assad and Mr. Erdogan have spoken on the phone at least three times, and the Turkish intelligence chief, an official with deep knowledge of Syrian affairs, has visited Damascus twice since the uprising began in March. Their message, officials say, was that time was running out for reform.
In language that echoed Mr. Erdogan's statement to Colonel Qaddafi, he warned Syria's government against a repetition of Hama, where the Syrian military crushed an Islamist revolt in 1982, killing at least 10,000 people and perhaps far more.
''Turkey needs Syria more than it needs the Syrian regime,'' said a Damascus-based analyst who requested anonymity, given the delicacy of the subject.
From Iraq to North Africa, Turkey's growing profile in the Arab world has emerged as one of the region's most remarkable dynamics. Trade with Iraq was about $6 billion in 2010, almost double what it was in 2008. There, and in Syria, visa restrictions were removed, facilitating trade across booming border regions that helped reconnect cities like Aleppo, Syria, to their historic hinterlands. About 25,000 Turkish workers flocked to Libya for sprawling construction jobs. Turkish pop culture is everywhere: the star of one action series, ''Valley of the Wolves,'' is so famous that he lends his name to Iraqi cafes.
Since January, Turkey has sought to protect those gains, while negotiating the tumult in the region. Though Turkey's ties with Egypt lacked the depth of those with other Arab countries, Mr. Erdogan called on President Hosni Mubarak to step down while an American envoy was still insisting that Mr. Mubarak be allowed to serve out his term.
But Turkey has suffered setbacks elsewhere. In Iraq, a coalition it helped create -- Iraqiya, led by Ayad Allawi -- lost to the coalition led by Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, despite winning the single largest bloc of Parliament seats in March 2010 elections. (Mr. Allawi himself was almost completely marginalized in the negotiations that ensued.) There remains skepticism in Turkey over Mr. Maliki's ability to hold the country together and defuse sectarian tensions after the American military withdraws by a deadline of year's end.
Turkish diplomats sought to reach a negotiated solution in Libya, but complain that Libyan officials lied to them about their willingness to impose a cease-fire. Turkish officials said they would court the Libyan opposition more aggressively and publicly in coming weeks.
They have stopped short of that call in Syria, with which Turkey almost went to war in 1998 over Syrian support for Kurdish guerrillas. Since then, Turkey has promoted its relationship with Syria as a model for its ties with other Arab countries. The two have held joint cabinet meetings and even military exercises. Trade has tripled in three years, and Mr. Assad and Mr. Erdogan are said to be fond of each other.
''The two countries have intimate relations, and Turkey is immersed in the Syrian political game,'' said Burhan Ghalioun, director of the Center for Contemporary Oriental Studies at the Sorbonne in Paris. But, he added: ''Turkey is warning Syria. Turkey is saying that it has strategic interests in Syria, and it cannot afford to let Syria explode.''
Turkey has sought to hedge its bets, hosting leaders of the Syrian Muslim Brotherhood and allowing a meeting of the opposition in Istanbul. That has angered Syrian officials, who insist that the uprising is being plotted abroad. In a possible sign of tension, a Turkish Foreign Ministry official said no more delegations were planned to Damascus.
''The Syrian government is furious at Turkish officials whom they considered friends only yesterday,'' said a Syrian analyst in Damascus who asked not to be named.
So far, Turkish officials have pushed Syria for far broader reforms, including an attempt at national reconciliation and dialogue that would ostensibly bring in the banned Brotherhood. Officials say there is a sense in Ankara that Mr. Assad wants reform but is stymied by more obstinate forces in the ruling elite, a point echoed by Mr. Erdogan.
''He says, 'I will do it,' '' he said in a television interview. ''But I am having a hard time understanding if he is being prevented from doing it or if he is hesitating.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Turks and Syrians protested against President Bashar al-Assad of Syria last month in Istanbul. Turkish-Syrian ties have grown closer in recent years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOLGA BOZOGLU/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (75%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); WRITERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (99%); SYRIA (97%); LEBANON (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (92%); TUNISIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



133 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Lacking Blockbuster, News Corp. Falls Short

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Not every fiscal quarter can have an ''Avatar.''
That seemed to be Rupert Murdoch's message on Wednesday as his sprawling media company, the News Corporation, reported earnings that largely fell short of most analysts' expectations. The company's total revenue for the quarter that ended in March, $8.26 billion, was down 6 percent from the same quarter last year, when ticket sales for the blockbuster film ''Avatar'' greatly increased revenue.
''Avatar'' became the highest-grossing film in history (not adjusted for inflation), but with that title came one downside for the News Corporation: ''challenging comparisons,'' as Mr. Murdoch put it in a statement, between this year and last year's earnings. The company's net income for the quarter, $639 million, or 24 cents a share, was down 24 percent from the same quarter last year, when the net income was $839 million, or 32 cents a share. 
Ticket sales for ''Black Swan,'' a film released last December that scored a best actress Oscar for Natalie Portman, led the film division's revenue in the most recent quarter. Citing the new animated film ''Rio,'' which was released three weeks ago but has already earned more than ''Black Swan,'' Mr. Murdoch said the ''difficult comparisons in this segment over the past nine months are now behind us.''
Cable channels like FX and the Fox News Channel remained by far the biggest contributors to the News Corporation's bottom line, accounting for more than 60 percent of profit. Like other major media companies, the News Corporation enjoyed significant gains in cable advertising revenue over the same time last year -- in its case, up 14 percent in the United States and up an average of 18 percent in other countries.
Fox News, which is the most-watched cable news channel in the United States, continues to be a profit center for the company. In the most recent quarter, Fox News recorded its highest-ever operating profit margin, David DeVoe, the company's chief financial officer, said in a conference call with analysts Wednesday.
The company's local and national broadcast television division also showed strong results, having mounted a recovery from the recession. It helped that Fox had the rights to the Super Bowl this year and that the eight-year-old ''American Idol'' franchise has, as Mr. DeVoe asserted, found a ''second life'' with new, nicer judges.
But attention lately has been focused not on the News Corporation's television assets, but on underperforming digital pieces of the company. Since last year, it has been attempting to sell Myspace, the ghost of a social network that suffered increased losses in the most recent quarter. Chase Carey, the News Corporation chief operating officer, said Wednesday that an unspecified Myspace transaction is ''on course.''
The company is also trying to spin off IGN.com, a portfolio of video game news Web sites, according to AllThingsD, which reported the plan earlier this week.
In its publishing division, the News Corporation is trying to market the tablet newspaper, The Daily, that it introduced on the iPad in February. Mr. Carey said that the company lost about $10 million on The Daily in the quarter and emphasized that ''it's very early days.'' He did not share any data about the number of subscribers to the newspaper, but a News Corporation employee was overheard on the conference call saying that the app that delivers the newspaper has been downloaded 800,000 times.
The publishing division posted a steep decline in net income in the quarter because of a $125 million charge related to a legal settlement at News America Marketing, its coupons and consumer marketing outfit. Excluding that charge, the company over all posted earnings of 26 cents a share.
Analysts pressed News Corporation executives on Wednesday on the status of its attempted acquisition of the 61 percent of British Sky Broadcasting, or BSkyB, that it does not yet own. The company is awaiting final approval of the deal by the British government.
If the approval comes -- and by most accounts it will come soon -- the News Corporation may have to pay more than the $12.4 billion it has already committed. Mr. Carey had little new to say about it, but he reiterated his hope for a ''reasonable deal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Black Swan,'' with Natalie Portman, lifted revenue for the News Corporation's film unit, but not as much as ''Avatar'' did a year ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIKO TAVERNISE/FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); CABLE TELEVISION (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); FILM (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); ANIMATED FILMS (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (67%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (86%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (86%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



134 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers' Challenge: A Plan to Lower the Deficit, and Make It Stick

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As bipartisan negotiations were to begin over how to limit the spread of federal red ink, Senator Max Baucus, chairman of the Finance Committee, said Wednesday that he was open to imposing a ''trigger'' that would force spending cuts if the government exceeded prescribed deficit levels.
''These trigger proposals have the potential to bring members from both sides of the aisle together and ensure action to reduce our debt,'' said Mr. Baucus, a Montana Democrat and one of six Congressional representatives scheduled to meet Thursday morning at Blair House with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
His made his comments as the Finance Committee heard from former Senator Phil Gramm, the godfather of the 1980s budget-cutting weapon known as the Gramm-Rudman law. Mr. Gramm, now an investment banker, said he believed Congress needed to raise the federal debt ceiling but only in conjunction with serious measures to deal with the nation's fiscal problems.
''To raise the debt ceiling again without requiring action now to deal with the problem is irresponsible and dangerous to the future of America,'' Mr. Gramm said.
One of the major questions surrounding such a trigger is whether it would require only spending cuts or if it could also spur automatic tax increases if Congress and the White House were unable to stay under the deficit target. Mr. Gramm, long an antitax crusader, predicted the automatic tax increases would ''never fly.''
''To do a mechanism where if the government fails, the taxpayer pays just seems alien to me,'' Mr. Gramm told the committee.
Other witnesses and some committee members disputed that stance, saying that it would not work to address the deficit strictly from the spending side of the budget equation.
The committee session was part of the maneuvering heading into Thursday's meeting between the lawmakers and Mr. Biden, who has become President Obama's favored negotiator with Congress over difficult fiscal issues.
Trying to force the administration to tip its hand, the two Republicans set to attend, Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, asked the White House to reveal how much it was seeking to raise the debt ceiling and what its plans were for attacking the deficit.
''For these discussions to be productive and so that we can appropriately consider the president's request to increase the statutory debt limit,'' the Republicans said in a letter to the vice president, ''we anticipate that the president will submit a request outlining the amount requested to increase the debt limit, along with any policy proposals to reduce spending and reform the budget process.''
But indications are that the initial meeting will not delve deeply into details and instead will review the various existing budget plans as negotiators search for some common ground to establish a basis for future sessions.
House Republicans have been skeptical of the prospect that the Biden talks will produce concrete results. Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican and Budget Committee chairman, said Wednesday that he believed the swirl of presidential politics heading into 2012 would limit what lawmakers can accomplish.
''We're not going to get a big, comprehensive agreement because of just the political parameters that have been set now,'' Mr. Ryan told reporters at a breakfast sponsored by Bloomberg News.
''I'm hoping we get a single or a double,'' he said using a baseball metaphor. ''I'm hoping the debt limit is the opportunity to get a down payment on some spending cuts, to get a down payment on some spending reform to put the crisis off. But I don't think you're going to see everything fixed.''
Mr. Ryan noted that his spending proposal employed a variety of budget enforcement mechanisms like spending and deficit caps. Those approaches appear to have the potential to become central to the deficit talks, though lawmakers disagree on how they should be structured.
At the Finance Committee hearing, Mr. Baucus made clear that he was strongly opposed to one bipartisan spending cap plan promoted by Senators Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, and Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri. Under that proposal, spending would be restricted to 20.6 percent of the nation's gross domestic product within a decade, requiring cuts if the cap was breached.
''These cuts would have a huge, negative impact on the most vulnerable Americans who count on these programs to make ends meet,'' Mr. Baucus said.
Mr. Gramm recommended that if Congress did impose a spending cap, lawmakers should tighten it to prevent abuse. He recounted how lawmakers of both parties regularly abused the emergency spending exemption to get around the restrictions of Gramm-Rudman. One example was when lawmakers declared spending for the census to be an unexpected emergency expense, ''despite the fact that the Constitution had required that a census be taken every decade for 200 years,'' Mr. Gramm said.
He recommended that an emergency be declared only with the approval of 60 percent of the members of both houses of Congress. ''In reality,'' he said, ''if you can't get that vote, you don't have a real emergency.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Max Baucus, left, and former Senator Phil Gramm spoke to lawmakers about spending cuts and the debt ceiling. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LISA KRANTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%)

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (90%); MAX BAUCUS (90%); JON KYL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); ERIC CANTOR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



135 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Bin Laden Raid Gives President Big Lift in Poll

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO and DALIA SUSSMAN; Megan Thee-Brenan, Marina Stefan and Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Support for President Obama rose sharply after the killing of Osama bin Laden, with a majority now approving of his overall job performance, as well as his handling of foreign policy, the war in Afghanistan and the threat of terrorism, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
The glow of national pride seemed to rise above partisan politics, as support for the president rose significantly among both Republicans and independents. In all, 57 percent said they now approved of the president's job performance, up from 46 percent last month. 
But euphoria was tempered by a sense of foreboding: more than six in 10 Americans said that killing Bin Laden was likely to increase the threat of terrorism against the United States in the short term. A large majority also said that the Qaeda leader's death did not make them feel any safer. Just 16 percent said they personally felt more safe now.
Though there has been talk in some quarters that the United States military can now leave Afghanistan, the poll showed that public sentiment on the issue seems more complicated.
Nearly half said the nation should decrease troop levels in Afghanistan. But more than six in 10 also said the United States had not completed its mission in Afghanistan, suggesting that the public would oppose a rapid withdrawal of all American forces.
One Democrat polled, Richard Olbrich, 68, said in a follow-up interview that Bin Laden's death was not sufficient reason to remove all American forces.
''The Taliban needs to be defeated,'' said Mr. Olbrich, a lawyer from Madison, Wis. ''I have no idea how long it will take to complete that mission. And we can't leave until Afghanistan is back on its feet a little bit.''
The Obama administration has said it plans to begin a gradual drawdown of troops from Afghanistan this summer, with a complete withdrawal to be completed in 2014.
It is common for presidents to see their poll numbers shoot up after major military or foreign policy successes. But they usually do not sustain the ratings.
Mr. Obama's job approval rating rose 11 points, compared with an 8-point increase for President George W. Bush, to 58 percent, after the capture of Saddam Hussein in December 2003. Mr. Bush's bump evaporated within a month.
The increase in Mr. Obama's ratings came largely from Republicans and independents. Among independents, his approval rating increased 11 points from last month, to 52 percent, while among Republicans it rose 15 points, to 24 percent. Among Democrats, 86 percent supported his job performance, compared with 79 percent in April.
But in an indication that anxieties about unemployment, gas prices and the national debt have not withered with Bin Laden's death, good will toward Mr. Obama did not extend to his economic policies. More than half said they disapproved of his handling of the economy, similar to the result last month, the poll found.
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, addressed those worries on Wednesday, saying, ''The country is still emerging from the worst recession since the Great Depression.''
''I think that gas prices have weighed heavily on Americans as they try to make ends meet,'' Mr. Carney said. ''And it's entirely understandable why that sentiment is out there, because people are struggling.''
Mr. Obama received higher marks in several major areas of foreign policy. Slightly more than half said they liked the way he was handling foreign policy generally, up from 39 percent in April. About six in 10 approved of his handling of Afghanistan, up from 44 percent in January. And more than seven in 10 supported his handling of the terrorism threat, up from about half in August 2010.
Perhaps least surprising, more than eight in 10 said they supported his handling of the pursuit of Bin Laden.
Diane Bottum, 63, a Republican from Lafayette, Ind., said she thought that the commando operation to kill Bin Laden was a ''macho thing'' that would encourage many Republicans to vote for Mr. Obama next year.
''Wiping out Bin Laden has been almost 10 years in the making, so it's really significant,'' Ms. Bottum, a retired university professor, said. ''I'm convinced he's nailed the next election.''
The government placed military bases and diplomatic offices on higher alert after Bin Laden's death, and those concerns about retaliatory attacks by Qaeda supporters are reflected in public opinion. About seven in 10 said they thought a terrorist attack in the United States in the next few months was somewhat or very likely, the highest percentage since 2004.
''When I first heard the news, I thought, 'We'd better watch it,' '' said Monica Byrne, 48, an independent from Paramus, N.J. ''Attacks could be anywhere, but I feel the New York metropolitan area is a target because they want to disrupt our lives, especially in the financial and business sectors.''
In the long term, Americans were divided over the impact of the Qaeda leader's death, with about a quarter saying the threat of terrorism would increase, about a quarter saying it would decrease and about 40 percent saying it would stay the same.
Americans were less ambivalent about whether the killing was a success, with nearly 90 percent calling it either a major or minor victory in the war on terrorism.
More than four in 10 Americans, 44 percent, also now think that the United States and its allies are winning the war on terrorism, up from 36 percent in 2006. But a significant minority, 45 percent, say the war is a draw.
The poll found opinion divided about whether the death of Bin Laden had brought a sense of closure about the Sept. 11 attacks, which killed nearly 3,000 people. Half said it had, while 45 percent said it had not. Majorities of Northeasterners and Westerners said they did not feel closure.
The nationwide telephone poll was conducted May 2 and 3 with 532 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama greeted members of the military and their families at the White House on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) CHARTS: The President's Approval Rating After Bin Laden: Support for President Obama rose sharply after Osama bin Laden's killing, with many more Americans now approving of the job he is doing as president and of the way he is handling foreign policy, the war in Afghanistan and the threat of terrorism, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); TALIBAN (77%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



136 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: 5 Questions About Friday's Jobs Report

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The jobs report for April, to be released on Friday, will shed light on whether job growth, like economic growth, has slowed. 

 BODY:
Below, we pose five questions to ask about Friday's jobs report, much as we did a month ago. The big picture is that job growth has been picking up in recent months -- but the job market is still a long way from being healthy, and the last month or so has offered new reason for concern.
The Labor Department will release the report at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.
Our five questions:
1. Has the recent economic slowdown led to a slowdown in job growth?
The first quarter of this year had the strongest job growth since before the recession began, in late 2007. But that job growth came on the heels of accelerating economic growth in late 2010. The economy has slowed markedly in early 2011.
Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, and many private forecasters say they think the economic slowdown was mostly a blip. Do employers agree? Or have they cut back on hiring and potentially increased layoffs?As a point of reference, the most recent Labor Department numbers show that economy added 216,000 jobs in March and an average of 159,000 over the past three months.
2. Has the crisis in Japan affected employment in this country?
This will be the first jobs report that will include the effects of the Japanese tsunami (because the survey period is the week that includes the 12th day of the previous month, and the tsunami occurred on March 11). One place to look for effects: the automobile industry, which has been hurt by a shortage of parts from Japanese factories.
Employment in the manufacturing subcategory known as Motor Vehicles and Parts has been growing recently, by an average of almost 4,000 jobs a month over the last six months, to 697,000. What happened in April?
3. Are the cutbacks by local and state governments becoming more severe -- or perhaps less so?
They are major employers, with 19.3 million workers. But facing deficits, they have been laying off workers and hampering the recovery. Over the last year, they have cut an average of 24,000 workers a month (and at a fairly steadily pace over the year).
4. What does the length of the work week say about business executives' state of mind?
Companies often increase existing workers' hours shortly before they start hiring large numbers of new workers. That hasn't happened much this year. The average work week in the private sector was 34.3 hours in March, up from 34.2 hours late last year.
An increase would be a sign that employers -- like stock-market investors -- do not seem scared by the recent slowdown in economic growth. A lengthening work week would also help increase workers' paychecks at a time when hourly wage growth has been weak.
5. Do the statistical details in the report offer reason for optimism?
The Labor Department won't be releasing only numbers for April on Friday. It will also be revising its estimates of job growth in February and March. Current estimates show employment gains of 194,000 for February and 216,000 for March. An increase in those numbers would suggest that the government's surveys of employers are having a hard time keeping pace with new hiring -- a common occurrence during a recovery.
Likewise, the government's survey of households will also be worth watching. In recoveries, it often shows bigger job gains than the survey of employers. And it usually ends up being more accurate, partly because the employer survey misses the jobs created by start-up firms. From January to March, the household survey showed an average employment gain of 219,000 jobs, compared with 159,000 for the employer survey.

        
The Recovery Is Losing Steam
        
A Good Report, With Two Dark Linings
        
Podcast: Jobs, Wages and Middle-Class Costs
        
5 Answers From Today's Jobs Report
        
5 Questions About Today's Jobs Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WORK WEEK (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); TSUNAMIS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (62%) April 2011 jobs report; automotive industry; Japanese tsunami; jobs; jobs report; Unemployment; wages; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



137 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Seal Soaks Up the Sun on the Isle of Manhattan

BYLINE: JAMES BARRON


HIGHLIGHT: Biologists have approached the gray seal that washed up on Wednesday: she (yes, she is believed to be a she) is healthy but not necessarily leaving right away. 

 BODY:
The gray seal on the beach in upper Manhattan is a she.
She was still lolling in the sun on Thursday as the temperature climbed into the 60s. A biologist from the Riverhead Foundation, a marine-animal rescue group that has been keeping tabs on the animal, got a somewhat closer look and reported that she appeared to be all right.
Robert DiGiovanni, Riverhead's director, said that a foundation biologist went "within a couple of feet of the animal" and that she was alert and appeared to be "in good body condition."
"We're going to continue to monitor her behavior," he said.
The seal arrived on Wednesday afternoon, emerging from the Hudson River and claiming a spot on a small beach at the western end of Dyckman Street. Soon people were watching her every move - though, like a sun worshiper diligently working on her tan, she was not moving all that much. She had the moves of a celebrity who wanted would-be paparazzi to keep their distance. On Wednesday she growled and thumped the sand when people with cameras stepped closer than she wanted.
And yes, Mr. DiGiovanni said on Thursday, she appeared to be a she, based on her light gray coat with dark spots. "That's what we're going with without trying to poke her and have her roll over," he said, adding that male seals would have a different coloration.
The city's Parks Department, whose rangers had also been keeping tabs on her, referred a call about her on Thursday afternoon to the foundation.
Her fans continued to make their way to the beach for a look. Susan Elmes, who teaches economics at Columbia University, walked from her apartment in Inwood to see the seal.
"It's exciting to see animals coming back to New York," she said, adding that she had seen skunks in Inwood, groundhogs in Fort Tryon Park and raccoons in Central Park - and had heard about deer in a parking lot in the Bronx.

        
Seal Hits the Beach in Upper Manhattan
        
Bird Week | 'Birdman' of Inwood
        
Where It's Still Legal to Exhale
        
Walk-Away Barge Is 'Corralled' on Hudson River
        
Skunks, Through the Eyes and Noses of Readers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (91%); BIOLOGY (90%); BEACHES (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ANIMALS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); BIOCHEMISTRY (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); ANIMAL WELFARE (57%) city seal; Hudson River; Inwood; seals; Animals; Beaches; Biology and Biochemistry; Parks and Recreation Department (NYC); Inwood (NYC); Manhattan (NYC); Animals and Wildlife; Manhattan

ORGANIZATION: Parks and Recreation Department (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Inwood (NYC); Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



138 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Dissecting This Week's Oil Price Tumble

BYLINE: CLIFFORD KRAUSS


HIGHLIGHT: Nationwide, most drivers have not changed their habits much, which suggests that prices will advance again before long. 

 BODY:
There's a saying in the oil business: The best cure for high oil prices is high oil prices. In other words, when prices are high, consumers are supposed to buy less at the pump and oil companies are supposed to produce more because it is more profitable to do so.
So, is that the explanation for today's plummeting oil price? In late Thursday morning trading, the principal oil benchmark price in United States trading was down more than 6 percent, and the price has been tumbling for the last three days. Gasoline prices, which normally are a week or two behind oil prices, have peaked and are poised to start falling.
Is this simply a matter of supply and demand? And how far might prices fall?The answers, sorry to say, are not simple. Demand at the pump has been depressed somewhat, particularly among rural and lower-middle-class drivers in the West and Southeast who spend a larger fraction of their income on fuel. Nationwide, though, most drivers are not changing their habits much.
The latest data from the Energy Department and from private groups that survey gasoline prices suggests that demand nationwide in the last month is down anywhere from just under 2 percent to 4 percent from a year ago.
That's nothing to sneeze at, but compared with a price rise over the past year averaging over $1 a gallon for regular, it is not that great. It is also the extension of a longer trend in which American gasoline use peaked four years ago before the recession began and the car fleet became more efficient.
While Americans consume about one-quarter of the world's oil output, demand for oil is still growing around much of the developing world. Still, evidence of lower gas consumption in the United States has affected the psychology of commodity traders, who have a big impact on prices day to day.
As for suppliers, the picture is also mixed. The intentions of the biggest supplier, OPEC, have been unclear. After turmoil began spreading across North Africa and the Middle East this year, Saudi Arabia promised to expand its production capacity. But in recent weeks there is evidence that Saudi Arabia, by far OPEC's biggest producer, has actually decreased production.
The Saudis say that world markets are flush with oil. Some analysts take them at their word, while others say that the kingdom either really wants oil prices to go higher or does not have the ability to increase production even if it wanted to. The jury is still out.
Non-OPEC production is relatively stable for the moment. So it does not seem like producers are the reason for the sudden drop in oil prices.
That all leads me to the conclusion that this drop in price may well be temporary and prices will probably surge again. A correction was simply due. So trading in the gas-guzzler for a more efficient car is probably still a good idea.

        
In the U.S., Sticker Shock in Reverse
        
Social Largess Speeds Rise in Oil Prices
        
Obama Again Demands an End to Oil Tax Breaks
        
On Our Radar: E.P.A. Calls Foul Over Republican Gas Price Claims
        
Filling Stations Fret Over Price Creep

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); TRENDS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); RECESSION (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%) gasoline consumption; gasoline prices; oil markets; oil production; Consumer Behavior; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; United States Economy; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Middle East; Saudi Arabia; United States; Business; Living

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Middle East; Saudi Arabia; United States

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



139 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Rail)

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Use at Own Risk: a Derby-Winning Breeder Handicaps the Derby

BYLINE: JIM SQUIRES


HIGHLIGHT: Like most veteran horse racing handicappers privileged to inside information, I have been loath to disclose the secrets of my selection process, honed over 20 years of betting on the Kentucky Derby and that could prove highly valuable to anyone planning to bet this coming Saturday. 

 BODY:
Like most veteran horse racing handicappers privileged to inside information, I have been loath to disclose the secrets of my selection process, honed over 20 years of betting on the Kentucky Derby, and that could prove highly valuable to anyone planning to bet this coming Saturday. 
But today, in celebration of one of the most exciting days of my life -- the Kentucky Derby draw 10 years ago -- you are being given a peek inside the mind of someone who miraculously bred and raised the second-fastest Derby winner in history. So from this point on, pay close attention and proceed with caution because, well, it is not a pretty sight. 
Breeders have a dramatically different set of handicapping criteria than the wise guys and Daily Racing Form types whose sole interests are winning money and showing who is the smartest, two considerations obviously lost on people who breed horses, which is the biggest and dumbest bet of all.
Virtually the only similarity of the two approaches is that both are a process of elimination, beginning with the post-position draw, which allows you to automatically exclude from consideration the horses in gate holes No. 1 and No. 2 and the far outside posts. It also provides insight about which horses are carrying first-time jockeys who are relatives of the trainer or so green as likely to be terrified at the prospect of a 20-horse calvary charge. 
Applying this theory to this year's field, you might automatically throw out Archarcharch, whose jockey is the trainer's son-in-law, and the horse under any jockey whose name you have never heard before, or who is recently out of jail or rehab.
Ten years ago I automatically threw out Monarchos and the Derby favorite, Point Given, when they drew the two outside posts, No. 16 and No. 17 respectively. Surprisingly, this did not temper my excitement because for most breeders, simply getting into the gate is the ultimate validation of your genius and the most you can hope for. From that point on, you can only pray that your horse does not wreck or embarrass you by not trying and or not finishing until the next day. 
Their failure can be excused when their gate positions cause them to be knocked down, trapped on the rail, run over, stepped on or shut off. So this year use Archarcharch, Brilliant Speed, Nehro and Watch Me Go at your own risk. If one of them overcomes these posts and wins, you won't feel nearly as bad as you would if you bet on them and they never got untangled.
The elimination of the two favorites - mine and everyone else's - in the 127th Derby -- basically reduced the 17-horse field to three - Millenium Wind, Invisible Ink and A.P. Valentine. As is often the case, that field included only a handful of horses bred with enough stamina not to the hit the wall at the eighth pole. The best finish of the three was Invisible Ink, son of the Derby winner Thunder Gulch, who finished second. This theory will be of little value this coming Saturday because more than half the field is bred to get the distance, which suggests breeding is once again becoming more important than chemistry.
On the basis of stamina alone, my favorite among Derby qualifiers this year was Toby's Corner, whose genes suggest he could have run all day, but he will not get the chance because of a sore hind leg. From my perspective, Toby's Corner also had all the critical qualifications demanded by my sophisticated handicapping process, which relies heavily on emotions not shared by other professionals, such as likability of connections. It makes no sense to bet on a horse you are rooting against.
Toby had a perfect, highly likable underdog mom-and-pop owner-breeder free of scandal and indictment and a jockey not recently suspended for beating neither horse nor wife. But most of all I favored Toby because my paddocks include one of only 30 or so 2011 foals by Toby's inexpensive sire, Bellamy Road, and two mares in foal to him for 2012. So I had more riding on him than I could afford to put down at the window.
Another important consideration is the fact that his trainer, Graham Motion, is one of only two of the top 20 earning trainers who has never been cited for a drug positive in his career, the other being Christophe Clement, who does not have a Derby horse.
Fortunately, Motion has another starter, Animal Kingdom, whom I have instantly moved to the top of my list. He clearly has staying-power genes, an honest trainer and an owner denigrated only for dressing a little funny. Over the years, the efficacy of this approach has been repeatedly evaluated, most recently in 2008 with a superfecta that failed to include the steroid-laced winner, Big Brown. 
My system relies heavily on animosity, sentimentality, nostalgia, favorite colors and familial connections, any combination of which can override post position and distance limitations, but not rude trainers, dilettante breeders, obnoxious owners and shoddy treatment I have received by the breeding farms where the Derby horse sires stand at stud. For instance, my chances of collecting big at the window Saturday will be influenced by the presence of Santiva, whose name is only one letter off from my wife's maiden name of Santavy, which along with a decent Ragozin number in one of his preps moves him up several lengths.
With Toby out, Santiva in and all these factors having been considered, I am down to a clean, 10-cent, six-horse superfecta box, in alphabetical order -- Animal Kingdom, Archarcharch, Dialed In, Master of Hounds, Mucho Macho Man and Santiva.
But before adopting this ticket as your own, consider the source -- someone who tries to make a living in this economy raising racehorses. With rare exception the only thoroughbred breeders not now on the brink of bankruptcy appear to be those subsidized by vast fortunes left to them by rich ancestors. 
Good luck Saturday.

        
The Rail's Derby 10
        
The Rail's Derby Ten
        
After 26 Derbys, He Still Doesn't Know
        
Joe Drape's Kentucky Derby Picks
        
Handicapping History in the Kentucky Derby

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (94%); HORSES (90%) handicapping; Kentucky Derby; Horse Racing

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



140 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Warner Music Suitor's Record of Deal-Making

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Len Blavatnik is the leading bidder for the music company. But his last big buyout, of the chemical company Lyondell, ended in bankruptcy. 

 BODY:
Len Blavatnik, the Russian-born billionaire who is nearing an acquisition of the Warner Music Group, is well known for his investing prowess. 
He came to America as a penniless teenager. After building a fortune on oil and metal companies, his net worth is now estimated at roughly $10 billion, according to Forbes.
But along the way to wealth, Mr. Blavatnik picked up one black mark on his otherwise rosy deal-making record. His last big deal - the 2007 buyout of the chemical company Lyondell - led to bankruptcy less than two years later. 
Lyondell's creditors are suing Mr. Blavatnik and his holding company, Access Industries, alleging that they loaded the company with mountains of debt that ultimately toppled the business, according to court documents. 
The suit also claims that he and others "mismanaged the business," causing the company to become "insolvent, undercapitalized and to incur debt beyond their ability to pay," the documents say. When the financial crisis hit, many of the company's manufacturing contracts disappeared, causing a liquidity crunch at the company. 
The deal's origins can be traced to 2005, when Access acquired Basell, a Dutch chemicals producer. Two years later, Basell bought Lyondell for roughly $12 billion in cash. Including the debt assumed by Basell, the deal was valued at about $20 billion. 
The creditors are seeking to recoup several hundred million dollars that they say Mr. Blavatnik earned off the deal, including $125 million in management and transaction fees and 100 million euros in dividends he pulled out of Basell shortly before the deal closed. 
Mr. Blavatnik has contested that the deal cost him a fortune - including his roughly $1 billion personal holding in Basell. Mr. Blavatnik also says he lost $5 billion to $10 billion, based on a estimate of his equity stake in Basell.
The creditors dispute the accuracy of that estimate. They cite in their suit an e-mail from an Access employee, who said that if Access "were asked to put in $4 billion to buy Basell today, we would roll over in laughter."
Access declined to comment. The case is scheduled to go to trial in October. 
Mr. Blavatnik's other deals have fared far better. 
Well known for his hard-nosed approach to business, Mr. Blavatnik first got rich off the privatization of the Russian economy after the fall of the Soviet Union. 
An American citizen who fled Russia with his family in 1978, Mr. Blavatnik earned his master's degree from Columbia University and his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
In 1986, he formed Access, which now holds large stakes in more than a dozen companies, including the Warner Music Group and TNK-BP, one of Russia's largest oil companies. 
He also sat on Warner's board from 2004 to 2008 and is close friends with the company's chairman and chief executive, Edgar Bronfman, Jr. In 2007, Mr. Blavatnik reportedly bought Mr. Bronfman's Upper East Side townhouse overlooking Central Park for $50 million. (Mr. Blavatnik also owns a mansion in Kensington Palace Gardens in London.)
On the rare occasion that Mr. Blavatnik loses money, he quickly moves to make it back. Last year he sued JPMorgan over the loss of $100 million in Access funds the bank invested in mortgage-backed securities that ultimately soured. 
Even the ill-fated Lyondell deal no longer seems so disastrous. The company emerged from bankruptcy last year and is now turning a steady profit. The company, which rang the bell at the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, reported earnings of $660 million for the first quarter of 2011. 
Mr. Blavatnik is reaping the benefits of the rapid turnaround. He still holds a roughly 15 percent stake in the company.

        
Warner Music Is Sold, Ending a Long Auction
        
Warner Music Nears a Sale to Access

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (83%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); LITIGATION (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); PRIVATIZATION (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (52%) Len Blavatnik; Lyondell; LyondellBasell; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Warner Music Group; Basic Industries; Media; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (84%); TNK-BP LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Warner Music Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%)

PERSON: LEONARD BLAVATNIK (91%); EDGAR BRONFMAN JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



141 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Fervor Roils Markets as Companies Beat a Path to Go Public

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: With investors clamoring, corporate issuers are increasingly gaining the upper hand in pricing their initial public offerings. But not all the stocks are sure bets. 

 BODY:
Companies are lining up to go public. Market conditions are favorable. Investor appetite is strong.
But not all the stocks are sure bets.
Following a string of healthy debuts, the pipeline for initial public offerings is bursting. In all, 168 companies are waiting to go public in the United States - the largest backlog since 2000, according to Renaissance Capital, an I.P.O. advisory firm. The group, which includes Dunkin' Brands, LinkedIn and Toys "R" Us, is aiming to raise some $38 billion.
The situation is similar overseas. Glencore, the world's largest commodities trader, is set to go public with a dual listing in Hong Kong and London. The offering, at roughly $10 billion, is on track to be the largest I.P.O. this year.
"The I.P.O. market is a cycle, it's bought on hope, held in greed and sold in fear - we're in the first stage," said John E. Fitzgibbon Jr., founder of the research firm I.P.O. Scoop.
The pickup in public offerings is natural, given the strength of the broader equity markets. After suffering a setback during the European debt crisis, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is up 28 percent since August. It tracks the improvement in the deal-making environment, with mergers and acquisitions at their highest volume since before the financial crisis.
"There is a connection between the M.&A. market and going public," said David J. Goldschmidt, a lawyer at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom who specializes in capital markets transactions. "Today we have a stronger M.&A. market and stronger stock market, which gives private companies the option to take a company public or to sell it."
Investor interest is high, too. In one sign, traffic to Renaissance Capital's Web site rose 40 percent in April to 400,000 unique visitors and is on track to reach a record in May. Mr. Fitzgibbon of I.P.O. Scoop says the number of subscribers to his site has doubled from last year.
With investors clamoring, corporate issuers are increasingly gaining the upper hand in pricing their stocks. In April, the car rental company Zipcar sold its shares at $18 - a couple of dollars above its expected range. Zipcar currently trades at $25.
About 30 percent of offerings have priced above expectations so for this year, according to Renaissance Capital. In 2010, only 12 percent did the same.
"Last year, we had a market where investors had been in the driver's seat," said Kathleen S. Smith, a principal at Renaissance. "Power is shifting, while investors are still driving, it's a better market for issuers."
Some companies are being overly ambitious about pricing, as their stocks quickly give up their first-day gains. An index that tracks the performance of companies after their I.P.O. has risen just 2 percent this year. Benchmarks like the S.&P. 500 and the Russell 3000 index, which measures the performance of the 3,000 largest American companies, have gained 6 percent.
On Thursday, China-based NetQin, a mobile security services company, went public on the New York Stock Exchange, pricing at $11.50 a share, the top of its range. On the first day of trading, the stock fell 19 percent to close at $9.30.
"We're not really concerned about stock prices today or tomorrow," said NetQin's chief financial officer, Suhai Ji. He said he was more focused on the strategic value of going public, including the cachet of a listing on the N.Y.S.E. and building a platform for partnerships in the United States.
Internet plays are giving analysts the most pause. Amid the rise of Facebook, technology start-ups are beating a path to the public markets, looking to cash in early while investors still have Silicon Valley fever.
Several social media start-ups, valued in the multibillion-dollar range, are preparing to go public. The professional social network LinkedIn, which is trading at a $2 billion-plus valuation in the secondary markets, filed for its I.P.O. in January. Groupon, a popular social shopping site, is said to be in talks with bankers as it prepares for an offering later this year.
But the fervor has some analysts worried that valuations are becoming unhinged from fundamentals.
On Wednesday, Renren, often described as the Facebook of China, rose 29 percent on its first day of trading. The social networking site, which lost money last year, is now worth $6.6 billion, some 86 times last year's revenue.
At that level, the Chinese social networking site is trading at a premium to its much larger and more profitable counterpart in the United States. The privately held Facebook, whose revenue hit $2 billion last year, is trading at 40 times sales on a secondary exchange. The Internet search giant Google trades at 6 times in the public markets.
"I don't know about some of these valuations," said Peter Falvey, a managing director at Morgan Keegan. "People are getting really excited, but it could end badly at some point."

        
The Money Network
        
A Bubble in Private Internet Companies?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (55%); EURO CRISIS (51%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%) Dunkin' Brands; Facebook; Glencore; Glencore International; Groupon; LinkedIn; NetQin; Renaissance Capital; Renren; Toys "R" Us; ZipCar; Initial Public Offerings; Facebook.com; Glencore International AG; Toys 'R' Us Inc; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings; Technology; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (83%); TOYS 'R' US INC (57%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (57%); ZIPCAR INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Facebook.com; Glencore International AG; Groupon; LinkedIn; Toys 'R' Us Inc; ZipCar

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (57%); ZIP (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (57%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (57%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



142 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Debate in South Carolina

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Five presidential candidates are participating in the debate. 

 BODY:
GREENVILLE, S.C. - Five candidates are taking part Thursday night in the first debate of the Republican presidential nominating contest. They are Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota; Rick Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania; Representative Ron Paul of Texas; Herman Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza; and Gary Johnson, the former governor of New Mexico. The Caucus is watching the debate and is providing updates.
10:21 P.M. | Is Obama Unbeatable?
Is President Obama unbeatable?
That question - and another about the president's biggest vulnerability - was put to each of the Republican hopefuls.
"The economy and high prices" are his greatest vulnerability, Mr. Paul said. He said Mr. Obama was beatable. "My theory is that people vote from their bellies. It's whether they are hungry or not."
Mr. Cain said, "He is not unbeatable because one right decision does not a great president make."
Of surveys showing Mr. Obama's approval ratings rising, Mr. Pawlenty said, "Respectfully, those polls are wrong. We can't restore America's promise unless we have a president who keeps his promise to America."
Mr. Santorum said, "You want someone who can beat Democratic incumbents in tough times?" He then pointed his thumb at himself.
Mr. Johnson said, "Only Republicans are capable of solving the problems that exist right now."
10:17 P.M. | Santorum Has Been Noticed
The D.N.C. just sent out a "fact check" on Mr. Santorum. So the Democrats know he's on the stage.
10:08 P.M. | Democratic Rebuttals Single Out Pawlenty
Who is on the stage at the first Republican presidential debate?
According to the Democratic National Committee, it looks like Mr. Pawlenty is the only one on the stage.
Halfway through the debate, the D.N.C. had already sent out three long "fact check" e-mails to reporters about the things Mr. Pawlenty said on Thursday night.
How many e-mails did the D.N.C. send out, combined, about the other four candidates on the stage?
Zero.
10:00 P.M. | Debts and Deficits
Politicians often offer carefully tested and focus-grouped ideas that appeal to the broadest number of people.
They weren't on the stage at the first Republican debate.
Mr. Paul said that unless spending is slashed 50 percent or more, he would be willing to let the government go into default.
Asked if he worried about the impact of a national default, he said: "They have money coming in. They can patch it over and pay it."
Mr. Cain proposed abolishing the income tax and replacing it with a 23 percent national sales tax.
Told that experts say that would amount to a tax increase for the middle class, Mr. Cain said, "Your experts are dead wrong."
And talk about a potentially unpopular proposal: Mr. Johnson said federal Medicare and Medicaid spending should each be cut almost in half, with states told they should figure out how to pay for those programs themselves.
"If we don't do this we are going to find ourselves bankrupt," Mr. Johnson said.
And Mr. Santorum suggested that the country be allowed to default on its debt unless it revokes the health care plan Democrats pushed through last year.
"To me it's a game changer and it has to be stopped," Mr. Santorum said.
9:41 | Opening Minutes Focus on Obama
Foreign policy. Secret military prisons. Torture. Wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
President Obama was not at the first Republican debate on Thursday night in South Carolina - obviously. But he set the tone from the first minutes of the debate anyway.
Mr. Pawlenty offered Mr. Obama praise for the raid that killed Bin Laden, but also asserted, "That moment is not the sum total of America's foreign policy." 
And Mr. Santorum went further, saying that when Mr. Obama strayed from policies already in place under George W. Bush, he had "gotten it wrong strategically every single time." 
Meanwhile, Mr. Paul contended that the pursuit of Bin Laden had nothing to do with the war in Afghanistan and said America should "get the troops out" now.
The first 15 minutes of the debate, held at the Peace Center for the Performing Arts in Greenville, were focused entirely on national security and foreign policy. Moderators asked every candidate who would support waterboarding of terrorism suspects in some cases to raise his hands.
Mr. Pawlenty, Mr. Santorum and Mr. Cain did. Mr. Paul and Mr. Johnson did not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (61%); SALES TAX (60%) The Caucus

COMPANY: GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIM PAWLENTY (89%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); HERMAN CAIN (79%); RON PAUL (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (74%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



143 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: May 5, 2011

LENGTH: 4587 words

HEADLINE: Updates on the Killing of Bin Laden, May 5

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY and ELIZABETH A. HARRIS


HIGHLIGHT: On Thursday, The Lede continues to track new details on the killing of Osama Bin Laden, and reactions to his death from around the world. 

 BODY:
On Thursday, as new details about the killing of Osama Bin Laden continue to emerge, and the debate about the legality and ethics of the operation intensifies, The Lede provides updates. 
6:12 P.M. | U.S. Says Al Qaeda Considered Plot on Train
ABC News reports that intelligence gathered at Osama bin Laden's compound in Pakistan, during the raid that killed Al Qaeda's leader on Monday, indicates that the group considered launching an attack on trains in the United States on September 11, 2011, to mark the 10th anniversary of the attacks on that date in 2001.
The Times separately confirmed elements of the account, with an Obama administration official saying that the documents about targeting railroads were among the first to be translated from Arabic and analyzed. The documents include a discussion of tampering with tracks to derail a train on a bridge, the officials told The Times, but there was no evidence of a specific plot. 
The ABC News report said that the text of a new alert issued on Thursday by the Department of Homeland Security read, "As of February 2010, Al Qaeda was allegedly contemplating conducting an operation against trains at an unspecified location in the United States on the 10th anniversary of September 11, 2001." ABC reports that the notice also states that Al Qaeda "was looking into trying to tip a train by tampering with the rails so that the train would fall off the track at either a valley or a bridge."
The Lede's coverage of the aftermath of the killing of Osama bin Laden will continue on Friday. In the meantime, please visit the home page of NYTimes.com to read and watch more reports from our colleagues.
Thanks for your comments.
5:57 P.M. | Hillary Clinton Suggests Photo Shows Allergy, Not Shock
Asked by a reporter in Rome on Thursday what she was looking at when the photograph above was taken in the White House Situation Room on Sunday, as top American officials followed the raid on Osama bin Laden's compound in Pakistan, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said that she was not certain "what any of us were looking at at that particular millisecond." But, she added: "Those were 38 of the most intense minutes."
Mrs. Clinton also said that while she might not have been covering her mouth in shock, as some have guessed. "I am somewhat sheepishly concerned that it was my preventing one of my early spring allergic coughs. So, it may have no great meaning whatsoever."
Here is Associated Press video of the secretary of state's remarks in Rome, in which she also discussed America's relationship with Pakistan in the wake of the raid on Pakistani territory:
5:36 P.M. | Bin Laden Lived in Compound for 5 Years, Pakistani Says
Osama bin Laden's Yemeni wife, who survived the American raid on the family's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, said that her husband had lived there for five years, according to a Pakistani military official who spoke to The BBC on Thursday.
The official also said that the woman, Amal Ahmed Abdulfattah - whose Yemeni passport was leaked to a Pakistani newspaper this week - claimed that she had not left the room her husband was killed in on Monday for the past five years. She apparently confirmed that she was shot in the leg during the raid, as American officials have said, and added that she then passed out and so did not witness her husband being shot and killed. 
The Pakistani official reiterated that Bin Laden's daughter, who is said to be 12 or 13, told her mother later that she had witnessed her father being shot.
According to the Pakistani official, the woman was one of three wives of Al Qaeda's leader who lived in the compound. All three women, and as many as 13 children detained at the compound, are now in Pakistani custody.
5:03 P.M. | Castro Deplores 'The Murder of Osama bin Laden'
Former Cuban President Fidel Castro attacked President Obama on Wednesday in his column in Granma, the Cuban Communist Party's official newspaper, for the way in which Osama Bin Laden was killed. 
"Whatever the acts attributed to Bin Laden," Mr. Castro's wrote, "the murder of an unarmed human being surrounded by his family constitutes an abhorrent deed. This is apparently what the government of the most powerful nation ever to exist did."
Although White House officials initially said that Bin Laden was armed when American forces found him, the Obama administration has now confirmed that he was not - though an AK-47 and a pistol are said to have been within his reach. 
In his column, Mr. Castro encouraged his readers to remember the "unjust wars" in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the "the horrific images of human beings in Guantanamo," the U.S. detention facility on the island of Cuba. He also suggested that American public opinion will eventually sour on the mission that killed Bin Laden. 
Murdering him and consigning his body to the depths of the ocean demonstrates fear and insecurity, making him a much more dangerous figure.
After the initial euphoria, public opinion in the very United States will eventually turn against the methods used, which far from protecting its citizens, will multiply the hatred and vengeful feelings against them.
The home page of Granma's English-language still features a report published last month, which deplores "the double standard inherent in U.S. policy when it comes to terrorism." In that article, the newspaper reports that a "committee of relatives of victims who died in the 1976 sabotage of a Cuban airliner over Barbados again demanded that the President of the United States, Barack Obama, initiate the prosecution of Luis Posada Carriles as a terrorist."
As our colleague James McKinley explained in January, Luis Posada Carriles, an elderly Cuban exile who once worked for the C.I.A. and has been linked to bombings in Havana and the downing of an airliner in the 1970s, has been described by Cuban officials as "the bin Laden of this hemisphere."
4:36 P.M. | The Cash Crop Outside Bin Laden's Compound
To return to the subject of our 9:56 a.m. update, here is a new photograph of the marijuana growing just outside the walls of Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, taken on Thursday by Nevine Mabro, a journalist for Britain's Channel 4 News, and friend of The Lede:
About an hour ago, Ms. Mabro reported on Twitter that Pakistani soldiers, apparently "upset by the coverage," from the international media, were moving reporters away from the compound.
4:21 P.M. | Pakistani Officials Express Anger at U.S. Raid
As our colleague Jane Perlez reports, "The head of Pakistan's army, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, said Thursday that he would not tolerate a repeat of the American covert operation that killed Osama bin Laden." 
General Kayani's remarks on the raid at a meeting on Thursday were summarized in a press release issued by the Pakistani military's Inter-Services Public Relations unit, which reported that he "made it very clear that any similar action, violating the sovereignty of Pakistan, will warrant a review on the level of military/intelligence cooperation with the United States."
The statement also said that the military leaders who met with General Kayani, "taking serious note of the assertions made by [the] Indian military leadership about conducting similar operations, made it very clear that any misadventure of this kind will be responded to very strongly. There should be no doubt about it."
At a news conference in Islamabad on Thursday, Pakistan's foreign secretary, Salman Bashir, also warned India that any such commando raids on Pakistani territory would not be tolerated. Mr. Bashir also replied to domestic criticism of Pakistan's slow response to the American raid, and dismissed out of hand the suggestion that Pakistan's military intelligence agency, the ISI, had either helped to hide Bin Laden or demonstrated incompetence by not discovering him within a thousand yards of the country's premier military training academy.
Here, from Pakistan's English-language Express 24/7 news channel, is video of Mr. Bashir's remarks to reporters on Thursday:
As if to illustrate how a breakdown in relations between Pakistan and the United States could hurt American interests, Pakistan's Express Tribune reported on Thursday:
Pakistani authorities say they will not allow the U.S. automatic access to the relatives of Osama bin Laden, who were detained after Sunday's raid on his fortified compound in Abbottabad.
The two countries face an awkward custody battle for the Al Qaeda leader's wife and children. Up to three women and nine children are currently in detention under Pakistani authorities. It is understood they are being held at a medical facility in Rawalpindi.
As The Lede reported previously, a Pakistani intelligence official told The BBC this week that Osama bin Laden's wife and daughter, who both survived the raid, are in Pakistani custody. The Pakistani source also said that the young daughter, said to be 12 or 13, witnessed her father's killing.
Also on Thursday, Reuters reported that an unnamed senior Pakistani security official described the killing of Bin Laden by the American team as "cold-blooded."
2:40 P.M. | What Did Bin Laden's Death Cost the United States?
While we may never know the price tag on the American military raid that killed Osama Bin Laden early Monday, plenty of reports have emerged about how much money chasing the most wanted man in the world has cost the United States over the years - and how those costs were perhaps a part of his plan. 
Today's Financial Times reports that the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and the broader "war on terror" (which includes expenditures at the Department of Homeland Security, for example), U.S. tax payers have spent at least $2 trillion in response to Al Qaeda's September 11, 2001 attacks. 
The economist and Columbia University professor Joseph E. Stiglitz, however, has put the costs of the Iraq war alone at well over $3 trillion. 
These figure positively crush the $50 billion to $60 billion price tag the George W. Bush Administration initially estimated the war in Iraq would cost - not to mention, as the FT points out, the $5 million price on Bin Laden's life in 1998, or even the $25 million bounty offered in later years.
Earlier this week, Ezra Klein speculated in the Washington Post that the enormous financial costs resulting from the September 11 attacks might have been entirely deliberate. "What he really wanted to do," Mr. Klein wrote of Bin Laden, "and, more to the point, what he thought he could do - was bankrupt the United States of America."
Mr. Klein continued:
Bin Laden's transition from scion of a wealthy family to terrorist mastermind came in the 1980s, when the Soviet Union was trying to conquer Afghanistan. Bin Laden was part of the resistance, and the resistance was successful - not only in repelling the Soviet invasion, but in contributing to the communist super-state's collapse a few years later. "We, alongside the mujaheddin, bled Russia for 10 years, until it went bankrupt," he later explained.
The campaign taught bin Laden a lot. For one thing, superpowers fall because their economies crumble, not because they're beaten on the battlefield. For another, superpowers are so allergic to losing that they'll bankrupt themselves trying to conquer a mass of rocks and sand. This was bin Laden's plan for the United States, too.
2:31 P.M. | Video of Obama Laying Wreath at World Trade Center Site
Above is raw video of President Barack Obama paying tribute on Thursday to the victims of the terrorist attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001.
2:29 P.M. | Video of Obama Talking to New York City Firefighters
Here is Associated Press video of President Barack Obama telling New York City firefighters on Thursday: "What happened on Sunday, because of the courage of our military and the outstanding work of our intelligence, sent a message around the world, but also sent a message here back home that when we say we will never forget, we mean what we say; that our commitment to making sure that justice is done is something that transcended politics, transcended party; it didn't matter which administration was in, it didn't matter who was in charge, we were going to make sure that the perpetrators of that horrible act - that they received justice."
1:24 P.M. | Transcript of Obama's Remarks to New York Firefighters
The White House Web site has posted this transcript of what President Brack Obama said to New York firefighters over lunch on Thursday in Midtown Manhattan:
Well, listen, the main reason I came here is because I heard the food is pretty good. (Laughter.)
But to the Commissioner, to Mayor Giuliani - who obviously performed heroic acts almost 10 years ago - but most of all, to all of you, I wanted to just come up here to thank you.
This is a symbolic site of the extraordinary sacrifice that was made on that terrible day almost 10 years ago. Obviously we can't bring back your friends that were lost, and I know that each and every one of you not only grieve for them, but have also over the last 10 years dealt with their family, their children, trying to give them comfort, trying to give them support.
What happened on Sunday, because of the courage of our military and the outstanding work of our intelligence, sent a message around the world, but also sent a message here back home that when we say we will never forget, we mean what we say; that our commitment to making sure that justice is done is something that transcended politics, transcended party; it didn't matter which administration was in, it didn't matter who was in charge, we were going to make sure that the perpetrators of that horrible act - that they received justice.
So it's some comfort, I hope, to all of you to know that when those guys took those extraordinary risks going into Pakistan, that they were doing it in part because of the sacrifices that were made in the States. They were doing it in the name of your brothers that were lost.
And finally, let me just say that, although 9/11 obviously was a high water mark of courage for the New York Fire Department and a symbol of the sacrifice, you guys are making sacrifices every single day. It doesn't get as much notoriety, it doesn't get as much attention, but every time you run into a burning building, every time that you are saving lives, you're making a difference. And that's part of what makes this city great and that's part of what makes this country great.
So I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart and on behalf of the American people for the sacrifices that you make every single day. And I just want to let you know that you're always going to have a President and an administration who's got your back the way you've got the backs of the people of New York over these last many years.
So God bless you. God bless the United States of America.
And with that, I'm going to try some of that food. All right? Appreciate you. Thank you.
1:14 P.M. | Debating the Legality and Ethics of Bin Laden's Killing
As our colleagues Mark Mazzetti and Mark Landler report, an updated account of the deadly commando raid on Osama bin Laden's compound suggests that it was "extremely one-sided, with a force of more than 20 Navy Seal members quickly dispatching the handful of men protecting Bin Laden." 
Administration officials said that the only shots fired by those in the compound came at the beginning of the operation, when Bin Laden's trusted courier, Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti, opened fire from behind the door of the guesthouse adjacent to the house where Bin Laden was hiding.
After the Seal members shot and killed Mr. Kuwaiti and a woman in the guesthouse, the Americans were never fired upon again. 
Coming after the revelation that Bin Laden was not armed, the new information that he was not killed during a "firefight," as U.S. officials first claimed, has prompted a debate about whether or not the operation should be described as an extrajudicial assassination.
Even before the new details of the raid were revealed, Gary Younge, a British columnist for The Guardian based in the United States, responding to the celebrations of the killing by Americans, took issue with President Barack Obama's initial description of the raid as "an operation to get Osama bin Laden and bring him to justice." Mr. Younge argued:
to suggest that "justice has been done", as President Obama did on Sunday night, seems perverse. This was not justice, it was an extra-judicial execution. If you shoot a man twice in the head you do not find him guilty. You find him dead. This was revenge. And it was served very cold indeed.
Given the nature of the 9/11 attacks a popular desire for vengeance in the U.S. is a perfectly understandable and legitimate emotional response. It is not, however, a foreign policy. And if vengeance is a comprehensible human emotion then empathy is no less so.
Writing on the left-leaning Think Progress Web site on Thursday, the blogger Matthew Yglesias disagreed emphatically. Mr. Yglesias wrote that while he would "have enjoyed having him captured alive and put on trial... what went down is fine in both international and domestic law." He noted that "Bin Laden considered himself to be at war with the United States."
Mr. Yglesias added that, "in an international law context, the use of military force is plainly authorized by" Chapter 7 of the the United Nations Charter, which defines when the use of force is permitted under international law. The U.N. document says plainly that, "Nothing in the present Charter shall impair the inherent right of individual or collective self-defence if an armed attack occurs against a Member of the United Nations."
That presumably explains why Attorney General Eric Holder described the killing of Bin Laden as just that, an act of "self-defense," at a hearing on Wednesday.
According to Mr. Yglesias: 
That's how the U.N. Charter says "bombs away." And this has all been reaffirmed since Bin Laden's death by the Security Council and the Secretary General of the United Nations.
On Wednesday, in response to a question from my colleague Mark Landler about whether the killing of Osama bin Laden was legally justified, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney read the following prepared statement, casting the operation as legal because it was a military operation against he leader of a force that declared war on the United States:
Furthermore, consistent with the laws of war, Bin Laden's surrender would have been accepted if feasible.
Following that statement, Raffi Khatchadourian, a New Yorker correspondent who has written about the laws of war for the magazine, looks closely at the administration's rationale in a post on The New Yorker's News Desk blog, headlined, "Bin Laden: The Rules of Engagement."
The post is well worth reading in full, but here are some of the most significant points:
More details about the military raid on bin Laden's compound, its scope and conceptualization, are sure to surface in the coming days. But the image of the weaponless, aging Al Qaeda figurehead and founder, shot in the head in his spacious house, has raised some public consternation that the Navy SEALs responsible for the killing acted illegally, or that the United States violated a longstanding Executive Order that bars U.S. employees from engaging in "political assassination." Human-rights groups and academics have called for inquiries, suggesting that laws may have been broken, or that an "extrajudicial killing without due process of the law" might have occurred. The request for more information about the raid is certainly valid. And the government should be as transparent as possible-especially because, so far, there is little indicating that the Navy SEALs acted outside the boundaries of domestic law.
It is hard to regard Osama bin Laden's killing as a "political assassination" in the conventional sense. The White House has been insisting that the raid was a military operation, conducted against a military target, and it makes a credible case in doing so. Bin Laden is not a politician, even if his ideology has political aspects to it. He is a declared enemy of the United States, the financier of numerous attacks against American infrastructure and civilians, and the chief signatory of a manifesto that states: "The ruling to kill the Americans and their allies-civilians and military-is an individual duty for every Muslim who can do it in any country in which it is possible to do it." By his rhetoric and by his actions he has unquestionably proven himself to be a combatant.
Moreover, the raid did not occur while bin Laden was lounging on a beach in Tahiti, or giving a political speech at a rally in Mexico, or meeting with foreign dignitaries in Ottawa. It occurred while he was ensconced in a safe-house in Pakistan-a country that, for better or for worse, belongs to a wider U.S. military theatre of combat in South Asia. [...]
For many years, soldiers have also been permitted to kill people because of who they are, rather than what they are doing-such people are "status-based targets." During the Second World War, an American infantryman could shoot an S.S. officer who was eating lunch in a French cafe without violating the Law of War, so long as he did not actively surrender. The officer's uniform made it obvious that he was the enemy. In Iraq, the R.O.E. listed about two dozen "designated terrorist organizations," including Al Qaeda, and, if it can be proved that someone is a member of one of these groups, that person can legally be killed. For a time, the R.O.E. designated as a status-based target any armed man wearing the uniform of the Mahdi Army-the militia led by Moqtada al-Sadr. (After Sadr called a truce, in 2004, the militia was provisionally taken off the list.) But most insurgent groups in Iraq don't wear uniforms, so their members must be "positively identified" by informants or other forms of intelligence before they can legally be killed. An insurgent is positively identified if there is "reasonable certainty" that he belongs to a declared hostile group.
What was true in Iraq and in the Second World War also applies in the ongoing conflicts in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Targeted air strikes are status-based operations. The drone strikes are status-based operations. Raids conducted by Special Forces to kill key militants-as in the case of Abu Musab al Zarqawi, who was killed in Iraq by Special Forces working under the command of General Stanley McChrystal-are status-based operations. A status-based target can become a non-combatant (that is, illegal to kill) only if he is wounded to the point where he no longer poses a threat, or if he is in the process of surrendering.
11:36 A.M. | New Video of the Fire at Bin Laden's Compound on Monday
Here is new video of the fire at Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan before dawn on Monday, apparently started by the American special forces team to destroy the damaged helicopter they were forced to leave behind:
Sohaib Athar, the Abbottabad blogger who first reported the arrival of the helicopters over the town on his Twitter feed on Monday morning, posted the video on his YouTube channel. He explains there: "The video was shot by a shopkeeper and shared by a local guy here for the summer - from the U.K."
11:35 A.M. | Following Obama's Visit to New York
Our colleagues at City Room, The Times blog devoted to all things New York, are live-blogging President Barack Obama's visit to the site of the 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center.
The Lede will continue to follow the global reaction to the killing of Osama bin Laden and the intensifying debate over the legality of the operation.
11:28 A.M. | Not Your Average Helicopter
Brian Ross of ABC News has a report on one of the helicopters used in the raid that killed Bin Laden - the one that malfunctioned during the mission. It was blown up by the Navy Seals before they left the compound, leaving the wreckage behind; photographs of the remaining pieces of its tail section were seen on Wednesday.
According to Mr. Ross, the craft was a stealth helicopter, designed to be extremely quiet and hard to detect with radar - a piece of military equipment not seen in public before.
On Wired's Danger Room blog, David Axe reports:
Aviation specialists are picking apart pixel-by-pixel the dozen-or-so photos of the copter that have appeared online. They're assembling digital mock-ups of the aircraft and comparing them to lost stealth designs of the 1980s and '90s. Speculation abounds, and so far no one from the government is commenting. But depending on what the copter turns out to be, it could shed new light on everything from the abilities of U.S. commandos to the relationship between the United States and Pakistan.
Opinions about the copter seem to fall into three basic camps. The most-cautious observers believe the wreckage is from a conventional chopper that got so badly mangled during the crash that it became unrecognizable. In the center, there are those who think the helicopter is an Army MH-60 Blackhawk tweaked to make it quieter and more stealthy. On the fringes, the true believers are talking about a brand-new, radar-evading helicopter design.
ABC's video report shows small children collecting pieces of a "fabric-like" material used to coat the helicopter, presumably as part of its stealthy design. Mr. Ross reports that neighbors in Abbottabad said they did not hear the helicopter until it was directly overhead.
Lindsey Hilsum, a correspondent for Britain's Channel 4 News, reported on Twitter from outside the compound on Wednesday that local children were already selling bits of the helicopter they had collected.
Bill Sweetman, the editor in chief of Defense Technology International, wrote a post on Aviation Week's web site Tuesday speculating about the helicopter and its stealth features, based on what could be seen in available photos of the wreckage.
Mr. Ross also reports that electricity and cell phone service in the area were knocked out just before the helicopters arrived, and started working again only when the Seal team had flown away again.
9:56 A.M. | Compound Might Have Held Other Secrets
As the world now knows, Osama bin Laden was found and killed by American special forces Monday in a compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, just a 70-mile drive from that country's capital city, Islamabad. For years, the compound's high walls, ringed with barbed wire, hid the world's most wanted man. 
As New York magazine's Daily Intel blog noted on Wednesday, earlier this week, Nic Robertson of CNN reported that something interesting could be found along the outside of those walls: marijuana plants, growing alongside the cabbage and potatoes that were cultivated right next to the hiding place.
Although associating use of the drug with the world's most famous terrorist might not be the best strategy, one blogger for NORML, an organization that supports the legalization of marijuana in the United States, was quick to point to the report, and comment:
If you're going to be holed up in a compound, you're going to be as self-sufficient as possible. I'm not at all surprised if bin Laden was growing medical cannabis; it's not like he could slip out to the hospital. It might help with the boredom and monotony of being stuck in the same place for six years as well.

        
Updates on the Killing of Bin Laden, May 4
        
Updates on the Death of Bin Laden, May 3
        
Briefing on Bin Laden Documents
        
Left Behind: Bin Laden's Wife and Daughter
        
Updates on Bin Laden's Death, May 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (93%); AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%) Abbottabad; osama bin laden; bin Laden, Osama; Terrorism; News; world

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (95%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) bin Laden, Osama

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



144 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Last Week Hit 8-Month High

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The number of people applying for unemployment benefits surged last week to the highest level in eight months.
The Labor Department said Thursday that applications rose by 43,000, to 474,000, in the week ended April 30, the third increase in four weeks. The four-week average, a less volatile measure, rose for the fourth consecutive week to 431,250. 
Applications near 375,000 are typically consistent with sustainable job growth. Weekly applications peaked during the recession at 659,000.
Rising unemployment applications and other weak economic data this week have prompted some analysts to worry that higher fuel prices might be causing employers to slow hiring.
The government will release its April jobs report on Friday. Economists are projecting that the economy probably added 185,000 jobs in April and that the unemployment rate might remain at 8.8 percent, but some are now saying the numbers of added jobs could be lower.
Other factors also contributed to the increase in claims, a department spokesman said. Oregon started its own extended unemployment benefit program, which caused an increase in overall applications in the state for unemployment benefits. And auto-related layoffs rose, as some companies shut down or slowed production because of shortages of parts after the earthquake in Japan.
The sharp rise in claims in recent weeks has increased concerns that higher gasoline and food prices are cutting into consumer spending and slowing the economy. Businesses are also facing higher costs for raw materials, which reduce profit margins. They might be cutting hiring as a cost-saving measure.
Other recent data have also pointed to a weaker job market. A private trade group said Wednesday that a measure of employment growth in the service sector, which employs 90 percent of the work force, slowed for a second month. The report, by the Institute for Supply Management, still showed that employment rose, but at the slowest pace in seven months.
In another report, American companies squeezed more work out of their staffs in the first three months, but the gain in productivity was much slower than the previous three months.
The Labor Department said productivity rose at an annual rate of 1.6 percent in the January-March period, compared to a 2.9 percent increase in the previous quarter.
A slowdown in productivity growth is bad for the economy if it persists for a long period. But it can be good in the short term when unemployment is high, because it signals that companies must hire more workers to make further gains.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); FOOD PRICES (69%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



145 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Slide in Commodities Adds to Markets' Woes

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks tumbled on Thursday, sending the Standard & Poor's 500 stock-index down for a fourth consecutive day, as shares of energy and raw-material companies slumped after the biggest decline in commodities in almost two years. 
Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold and Exxon Mobil each slid more than 2.5 percent as metal prices sank and oil fell below $100 a barrel for the first time since March 17. General Motors fell 3.1 percent to $32.02 after saying that sales in China had declined. FedEx, the operator of the biggest cargo airline, added 2.9 percent to close at $95.29
The S.& P. 500 dropped 12.22 points, or 0.91 percent, to 1,335.10. The Dow Jones industrial average decreased 139.41 points, or 1.10 percent, to 12,584.17. The Nasdaq composite index fell 13.51 points, or 0.48 percent, to 2,814.72.
''It's driven by fear,'' said James Gaul, a money manager at Boston Advisors in Boston. ''Fear of losing of money on positions for the short-term traders to long-term concerns that the economy is weakening and risky assets are not performing as well as they have done, which you can extrapolate into oil prices. Big price moves like these are most often sentiment-driven.''
Gauges of energy and metal producers fell at least 4.4 percent since April 29, leading the declines in the S.& P. 500.
The European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said the bank would monitor upside inflation risks ''very closely,'' suggesting it would wait until after June to raise interest rates again. The Bank of England kept its benchmark rate at a record low of 0.5 percent on Thursday.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 18/32, to 103 31/32, and the yield fell to 3.15 percent from 3.22 percent late Wednesday.
Applications for jobless benefits jumped by 43,000 to 474,000 in the week ended April 30, the most since August, Labor Department figures showed.
American consumer confidence dropped to a five-week low as the highest gasoline prices in almost three years soured Americans' views of the buying climate. Indexes of energy and raw-material producers in the S.& P. 500 fell at least 1.2 percent.
Freeport-McMoRan, the largest publicly traded copper producer, declined to $49.85 from $51.14. Exxon fell by $2.19 to $82.62.
General Motors reported that sales fell in April, the first decline since December, as the removal of government incentives reduced demand.
The Dow Jones Transportation Average rallied 1.1 percent.
Shares of Conway, a trucking company, added 5.2 percent to $39.54, the highest price since May 2010. The company reported first-quarter profit that topped analysts' estimates as revenue at its freight division increased.
Shares in Electronic Arts, the video game producer, rose 8.8 percent to $21.68.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); COPPER INDUSTRY (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); TRUCKING (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%)

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (74%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (84%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (84%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (84%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (84%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (84%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



146 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Pharmacy Tie-Up Without Benefits

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN AND RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
The merger that created CVS Caremark never made much sense. Combining the drugstore chain and pharmacy benefit manager resulted in lost contracts and Federal Trade Commission scrutiny. It has hurt investors, too. The fall in first-quarter profit reported on Thursday emphasizes the point. The $50 billion company could be worth $13 billion more carved up.
The Caremark arm of the group pools customers and uses this purchasing power to demand discounts from drug makers. CVS, meanwhile, fills prescriptions and sells things as diverse as diapers and candy. The merger meant Caremark customers could be pushed into CVS stores with preferential pricing. The union also led to new services. People with diabetes, for example, could get their medicine in the mail and attend clinics in CVS stores. 
The deal lifted retail sales but hurt the benefits business. Caremark lost nearly $5 billion of contracts last year. The company blamed falling prices in the unit for its latest quarterly earnings decline. Moreover, regulators are concerned CVS might be using Caremark customer data to compete unfairly against rivals, though the company says it has ensured that can't happen.
While CVS stores would lose sales if the company were to split, Caremark would add customers and improve its profit margin. Instead of encouraging clients to visit stores, it could mail more prescriptions directly to customers, which is more efficient. And it would mean fewer costly legal problems in Washington.
Investors attach a discount to the combined company. If the separated CVS and Caremark units traded in line with independent rivals -- the pharmacy chain Walgreen and the benefits groups Express Scripts and Medco Health Solutions -- then, based on multiples of estimated 2011 earnings, investors would see a 25 percent increase in value. And a stand-alone Caremark might attract an additional takeover premium from a pure-play rival.
The merger's major architects are gone. A new chief executive, Larry J. Merlo, took over in March. And David Dorman, who oversaw a split-up at Motorola, is ready to start as chairman next week. While CVS Caremark says its new bosses have no plans to break it up, undoing the deal would be an easy win for them.
Nigerian Example
Nigeria isn't the obvious source of sound financial advice. But as part of a postcrisis cleanup, the central bank of Africa's most populous nation fired the bosses of flailing financial firms. Western officials might consider taking note.
Many developed-world bank critics would approve of Nigeria's approach. Warren E. Buffett said over the weekend that any companies that needed rescuing by the government -- along with their spouses -- should end up ''dead broke.'' But that hasn't happened in the United States or, say, Britain. But it did, more or less, in Nigeria.
Readers familiar with Nigeria's infamous e-mail scams may find the comparison humorous. But against expectations, Nigerian officials managed to make last month's elections the fairest in years, according to observers. That gives some credibility to the central bank's efforts to clean up the financial sector.
Lamido Sanusi, the Nigerian central bank governor, initially identified five banks that were in trouble. ''I am satisfied these five institutions are in a grave situation and that their management have acted in a manner detrimental to the interest of their depositors and creditors,'' he said in an August 2009 speech that has become a must-read among financial policy wonks in Washington and elsewhere. He fired the banks' leaders.
It's unclear whether Mr. Sanusi's efforts then and since, which included sacking the bosses of three more banks, bailouts on tough terms and stiffening rules on capital and proprietary trading, will ultimately stick. After all, he started with a serious mess. In one case, a bank borrowed money and bought private jets that were registered to the chief executive's son.
Such hurdles make it all the more unexpected that Mr. Sanusi and his colleagues should try so hard to fix the system. His objectives seem sensible, comprehensive and bluntly expressed, characteristics that apply to too few of the reforms carried out in the biggest financial markets. It all goes to show that ideas from Abuja deserve attention alongside those from Washington and Wall Street.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lamido Sanusi, Nigeria's central bank governor, fired the leaders of five banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AKINTUNDE AKINLEYE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (91%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); MERGERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); RETAIL SALES (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); DIABETES (54%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CVS CAREMARK CORP (98%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (98%); MSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (98%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (98%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (54%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%)

PERSON: LARRY J MERLO (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



147 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Want to Add To Congestion? Then It's Going To Cost You

BYLINE: By ZUSHA ELINSON. 
zelinson@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jay Primus's small office at the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency could be mistaken for that of a science professor. The walls are covered with giant maps and colorful charts, all aimed at helping to illuminate one of the big mysteries in the life of any city dweller: how to find a parking space.
Mr. Primus runs SFPark, a recently launched experiment that seeks to eliminate congestion by changing the dynamics of parking. The approach is twofold: to change the price of a parking space according to demand and thereby keep spaces open on every block, and to lead drivers to open spaces using an array of sensors, eliminating congestion caused by circling drivers.
Mr. Primus is part of the vanguard of public officials around the Bay Area who are pushing sophisticated traffic and parking solutions built on the theory of congestion pricing. Though Mr. Primus and other traffic specialists sprinkle their conversations with jargon like ''availability targets'' and ''gradual periodic price change,'' the basic idea behind congestion pricing is a simple one: charge more to use streets and highways at the busiest times, and discourage those who don't want to pay a premium at peak hours. 
Congestion pricing is already in place in cities including Singapore, London and Stockholm, but it has made few inroads in this country. An effort to charge motorists for driving into Manhattan, championed by Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York, failed in 2008 in the face of virulent opposition from legislators in the city's four other boroughs and the suburbs.
But the Bay Area is pushing ahead, albeit gradually. Last year, the toll on the Bay Bridge was raised to $6 from $4 during the rush hours in an effort to loosen congestion. In September, a toll lane whose price increases as traffic does was opened on Interstate 680, a historically jammed stretch for commuters heading from the East Bay to Silicon Valley.
More projects are on their way: toll lanes are slated for Highway 237 in the South Bay, and for Interstate 580 in the East Bay; higher tolls during peak hours are being considered for other bridges; and San Francisco officials have floated a plan to charge motorists driving into downtown San Francisco.
So far, the experiments have yielded mixed results.
Traffic on the Bay Bridge has dropped 2.35 percent during the morning commute and 3.45 percent in the afternoon since the toll was raised last July. Between 5 and 10 a.m., and 3 and 7 p.m. on weekdays the toll is $6 -- $2 more than the regular rate.
''I think that a small number of people who can do a time shift have done so -- they're either taking their trip earlier in the day or later in the day,'' said John Goodwin, spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Commission. ''The numbers are small, but just tinkering at the margins can have a significant effect on the commute traffic.''
The result, measured by the M.T.C., is that the time it takes to drive five miles from University Avenue in Berkeley to the Bay Bridge toll plaza has been cut by three minutes to an average of 24 minutes during the morning rush.
Fred Foldvary, a Santa Clara University professor who has studied congestion pricing, said the M.T.C. needs to crank up the Bay Bridge toll even more.
''They have to keep increasing the charge during the peak times, and maybe even reduce it at other times, to see a real change,'' Mr. Foldvary said.
The I-680 toll lane, stretching 14 miles between Highway 84 in Pleasanton and 237 in Milpitas, was designed to thin out what had been a traffic nightmare during the dot-com boom in the late 1990s. The toll has gone as high as $7 in heavy traffic; it bottoms out at 30 cents when there is no backup. The price is displayed on a sign, and the toll is charged through FasTrak.
So far, the toll lane has not had much of an effect, mainly because the traffic congestion it was supposed to address has largely been tamed by the economic slump, said Dave Hyams, a spokesman for the project. The average speed during peak hours in the non-toll lanes is 57 miles per hour, up from 56.9 m.p.h. since it opened. The toll lane averages a swifter 65.8 m.p.h. -- swifter even than the 65 m.p.h. speed limit.
A regular 680 commuter, Cheryl Cook-Kallio, a teacher and Pleasanton City Council member, said she has never used the new lane. ''I have yet to be on the freeway where the traffic has been so bad that I was tempted,'' she said, adding that the express lane also does not have access to her exit.
In San Francisco's new parking scheme, Mr. Primus and his colleagues will adjust the prices at 7,000 meters and 20 city-owned parking garages with the aim of keeping two spaces available on every block. Drivers could pay from 25 cents to $6 an hour depending on demand. Currently, rates run from $2 to $3.50 an hour.
''We believe that relatively small differences in price should be enough to park in a different location,'' Mr. Primus said. ''All we need is one person to notice that the price has changed. It's a subtle tool for managing congestion.''
Sensors on the street will feed into an as-yet-unfinished database. Parking prices will be raised -- no more than once a month -- when more than 85 percent of the spaces on a block are occupied. Prices will be lowered if less than 65 percent are full.
Drivers can keep track on a new iPhone app, which so far has been criticized for running slowly -- and being dangerous to use while driving. Drivers can pay with credit cards and re-up via cellphone.
David LaBua, who has written a book about San Francisco's secret parking spots called ''Finding the Sweet Spot,'' said he is not a fan of SFPark.
Mr. Labua said to he tried to use the new software to find parking in the Marina, but eventually gave up when the supposedly available spots evaporated before his arrival. Instead, he used his own method: look for orange and white construction markers that signal ''no parking,'' but whose date has expired.
''I think once the meter prices go up to $6, there is going to be critical mass of car drivers -- can you imagine that?'' said Mr. LaBua, making reference to the monthly bicyclists' demonstration that clogs downtown streets.
But Donald Shoup, a U.C.L.A. professor of urban planning whose influential book ''The High Cost of Free Parking'' inspired SFPark, said people will get used to the idea that ''it's fair that the very best spaces cost more.''
Mr. Shoup added that the parking program may be so successful in curbing traffic that the city won't need to pursue more controversial plans for raising the cost of driving.
''It's a lot harder to charge a moving car than it is charging a parked car, especially when people are already used to paying for parking,'' Mr. Shoup said.
In an echo of the bitter battle that broke out over the issue in New York, the San Francisco County Transportation Authority nearly touched off a border war with San Mateo County last year when it floated the idea of charging commuters from the Peninsula a toll to enter San Francisco. Assemblyman Jerry Hill even threatened to charge San Franciscans for driving into San Mateo County.
The idea of a border toll was scrapped in December, but the transportation authority is moving ahead and studying two plans that would charge drivers for entering downtown, the most congested part of the city.
Zabe Bent, a planner with the authority, said that any toll to drive downtown would be accompanied by an improvement in public transit to allay concerns about unfair impacts on commuters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cars on a toll lane whiz past traffic on I-680 in Fremont. Above left, Kristin Malotke feeding a meter on the Embarcadero. The dynamics of parking are changing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); MAYORS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



148 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: What's on Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Disney) THE SUITE LIFE ON DECK The series ends as Zack (Dylan Sprouse), Cody (Cole Sprouse) and their classmates, above, say bon voyage to Seven Seas High School and consider life after graduation. ''Ant Farm,'' at 8:40, follows the escapades of Disney's newest tween star, Chyna (China Anne McClain), an 11-year-old music prodigy who attends high school as part of the Advanced Natural Talents program for gifted students. In this series premiere she receives a less-than-warm welcome on the first day of classes.
8 P.M. (NBC) FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS Coach Taylor (Kyle Chandler) takes up meditation after conflicts arise in the locker room. Elsewhere the Lions get a new teammate. 
8 P.M. (CW) SMALLVILLE In the penultimate episode of this series, Lois (Erica Durance) is granted the superpowers of Clark (Tom Welling) for a single day as a wedding gift from Jor-el (Terence Stamp). So when the Toyman shows up in Metropolis, it's up to Lois to stop him. Meanwhile Oliver (Justin Hartley) encounters Kara (Laura Vandervoort) while seeking the Bow of Orion. In ''Supernatural,'' at 9, Castiel (Misha Collins) explains to Sam (Jared Padalecki), Dean (Jensen Ackles) and Bobby (Jim Beaver) how he and Raphael (Lanette Ware) became enemies during the war in heaven. Bobby thinks there's more to the story.
8 P.M. (Encore) YEAR ONE (2009) Two Paleolithic tribesmen -- Zed (Jack Black), a lousy hunter with bad spear aim, and Oh (Michael Cera, far left, with Mr. Black), a gentle gatherer who speaks to plants -- are banished and set out on a journey of biblical proportions. But not before Zed takes a bite of a golden apple from the forbidden Tree of Knowledge and blows his own mind. The cast includes David Cross as Cain, Paul Rudd as Abel, Hank Azaria as Abraham, Christopher Mintz-Plasse as Isaac and Oliver Platt as a Sodomite priest who likes Oh just a little too much. In The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called this comedy from Harold Ramis, who also wrote it with Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg, ''a thoroughly, sometimes gaggingly broad and sly conceptual laugh-in.''
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW This newsmagazine's subjects include the suspension of the adoption of abandoned Nepalese children by citizens of other countries and the Americans in Nepal who are unable to bring their adopted children home, the economic toll that 9/11 and the hunt for Osama bin Laden have exacted on the United States, and an interview with Bernard Haykel, a professor of Near Eastern studies at Princeton, who believes that the jihadism of Al Qaeda is far from over. Finally Jon Meacham considers whether the death of Bin Laden will give President Obama a new opportunity to adjust the nation's agenda.
9 P.M. (NBC) DATELINE NBC In his first television interview Ryan Widmer discusses being on trial three times for the death of his wife, Sarah, who was found dead in the master bathroom of the couple's home in Hamilton Township, Ohio, less than four months after they were married.
10 P.M. (ABC) 20/20 In an episode devoted to the pursuit of Osama bin Laden, Chris Cuomo explores the characteristics of the men who make up what is unofficially called Seal Team 6, the Navy unit that helped carry out the assault on Bin Laden, and wonders who fired the fatal shot. Also, a look inside Bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan.
10 P.M. (TV Guide) A GOOD YEAR (2006) Russell Crowe reunites with the director Ridley Scott (''Gladiator'') in this celebration of French food and wine, adapted from Peter Mayle's 2004 novel about Max Skinner, an aggressive London bond trader who inherits a small vineyard from his Uncle Henry (Albert Finney). Soon enough Max, soothed by the memories of summers spent amid the grapevines, has morphed into a bon vivant, thanks in part to a beautiful bistro owner (Marion Cotillard), a sensitive winemaker (Didier Bourdon) and a young Californian (Abbie Cornish) who shows up and announces she is his uncle's illegitimate daughter -- which would make her Henry's true heir. And suddenly the scruffy vineyard is looking a little more palatable to Max. Writing in The Times, Stephen Holden called the film ''an innocuous, feel-good movie'' and advised viewers ''to make a reservation at an upscale French restaurant immediately after seeing the film or risk going home feeling deprived.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEAN HENDLER/DISNEY CHANNEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); GIFTED EDUCATION (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); MEDITATION (74%); ADOPTION (62%); RELIGION (61%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (58%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEPAL (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



149 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: With Museums Looking for Revenue, Out-of-Staters Will Get the Bill

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
The Big Squeeze confronts every facet of the economy and will soon hit culture-craving visitors to Chicago from places like Des Moines, Berlin and Buenos Aires.
Their free ride on free days is about to end. As it does, we can wonder how else we might monetize the city's 40 million annual visitors.
Very quietly, a consortium of museums has persuaded the Illinois legislature to allow them to charge entry fees to out-of-staters on the 52 free museum days each year mandated by the General Assembly. 
The bill, approved unanimously, is on the desk of the Hamlet of Springfield, Gov. Pat Quinn, who presumably will need less time to mull whether to sign this one than he took agonizing over abolition of the death penalty.
Gary Johnson, president of the Chicago History Museum, led the charge as head of Museums in the Parks. That group comprises the Adler Planetarium, Art Institute of Chicago, DuSable Museum of African American History, Field Museum, Museum of Contemporary Art, Museum of Science and Industry, National Museum of Mexican Art, Peggy Notebaert Nature Museum, John G. Shedd Aquarium and Johnson's home base in Lincoln Park.
The legislature's jurisdiction originally involved museums on public parkland, back in an era in which the state gave them operating money. It no longer does, but some still get local help, like the aid Chicago's museums get from the Park District.
Currently, Chicago's museums must have 52 days when admission is free even to out-of-staters. They've argued for years that they labor under a de facto unfunded state mandate and, with budgets tight, need help.
Forty million visitors arrive in Chicago each year from at least 50 miles away, according to the city, and generate tax revenue of $587 million a year. About 17 percent of them say visiting museums and art exhibitions is a priority. The museums figure that half of their attendees don't pay, and that includes the indisputable freebies, notably students.
The museums' figures are short of exact, as Mr. Johnson concedes, with some institutions more meticulous than others about getting visitors' ZIP codes on free days. But he guesses that 25 percent to 50 percent of visitors on the free days are from outside Illinois.
At his museum, the figure is 23 percent. It stands to reason it's far higher at the bigger draws, like the Shedd.
''Our guesstimate is that, when we add up all the museums, the revenue to be gained is in the millions of dollars,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''If you look at the biggest in our group, it could mean in the upper hundreds of thousands of dollars to each.''
Nationally, Chicago appears to offer more freebies than any big city, with the exception of Washington, where so many museums are subsidized by all of us. ''We're off the charts,'' another Chicago museum leader told me.
Of course, this leads me to wonder how Mayor-elect Rahm Emanuel, whose budget challenges loom large, might find more revenue.
Among his proposals and hints, some less veiled than others, are to sell advertising on garbage trucks, to charge hospitals and other nonprofits for their city water and to send property tax bills to nonprofits, including arts bastions. ''Shared sacrifice'' is his pragmatically coy mantra.
Squeezing institutions long on the dole is sensible. In turn, they could either hit up out-of-towners for a related surcharge or just give them a free T-shirt emblazoned, ''I Visited Chicago and Didn't Get Ripped Off.''
And along with pressing for a percentage of what some institutions suck out of taxpayers, the city could send invoices for the heartache that others deliver, suggests Nick Gillespie, editor of the libertarian magazine Reason.
''What about taxing the Cubs for the unrelieved misery they have visited upon the city since before the second Coolidge administration?'' Mr. Gillespie asked.
He noted how the city had led the way in privatizing the Skyway and parking meters and ''could certainly unload a host of patronage systems that deliver subrate services at premium prices.''
And it could just slim down. That would set it apart from the tourist-thumping Illinois legislature, which just shilled for the family business.
The Senate on Tuesday overwhelmingly rejected a bill to reduce the ludicrous number of local government bodies. There are nearly 8,467 -- more than the number of dental hygienists (7,802).
We lead the nation and deserve a museum exhibit: ''Sloth in Illinois.'' Japanese, German and other tourists might love to pay for that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); HISTORY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (54%)

COMPANY: JOHN G SHEDD AQUARIUM (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY (56%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS712130 ZOOS & BOTANICAL GARDENS (55%); SIC8422 ARBORETA & BOTANICAL OR ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS (55%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); MADISON, WI, USA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



150 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: A Moving Target

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
The extreme volatility of commodities prices and the unpredictability that comes with it is increasing the cost of doing business for everyone.
The price swings have been eye-popping. In March, cocoa futures plummeted 12 percent in less than a minute and then quickly recovered in a ''flash crash'' that left traders mystified. Cotton futures have fluctuated so wildly that they flipped market circuit-breakers on about two-thirds of the trading days this year. Last November, sugar futures fell more than 20 percent over two days, their biggest two-day sell-off in at least 17 years, and they often swing more in one day than they used to move in a month.
Arcane to the layman, commodities futures are essential to many businesses, like food manufacturers and fuel suppliers, which use them to help set prices and predict costs for items as varied as corn flakes, blue jeans and mocha lattes. Farmers use them to decide which crops to plant. And they keep the wheels of industry turning smoothly by acting like insurance policies to hedge the risks inherent in buying and selling raw ingredients.
But when prices move erratically, it increases the cost of buying the futures and options that protect companies against such changes. Those added costs find their way to the grocery store and the shopping mall. 
Consider home heating oil, for example. Sean Cota, a propane gas and heating oil supplier in Bellows Falls, Vt., signs contracts with customers to supply oil to them during the winter heating season.
Since Mr. Cota typically buys oil only as he needs to supply it, he uses heating oil futures and options as a form of insurance to protect himself against unexpected jumps in prices. Seven or eight years ago, he said, such protection added 2 to 6 cents to each gallon of heating oil he bought. These days, volatile oil prices mean it costs him 37 cents a gallon for such hedging -- an extra cost that he expects to add to customers' heating oil bills, which are already higher because the price of oil has risen sharply in the last year.
''It is affecting my company drastically,'' said Mr. Cota, who has been lobbying in Washington for restrictions on financial flows into the commodities markets. ''I pass the extra cost on to customers, but sometimes I just have to swallow it.''
Volatility can drive prices down as quickly as it pushes them up. On Thursday, prices for a wide range of commodities plunged, with the broad CRB commodities index closing down 4.9 percent.
Making the situation more confounding for businesses is that commodities have become more volatile for reasons that no one fully understands.
Much of the fluctuation is caused by economic supply and demand. Stockpiles of goods like cotton, corn and coffee are at historically low levels, setting markets on a hair trigger. Demand for many commodities is rising as developing countries like China and India become wealthier and buy ever more food and oil.
But other factors, like investor concerns about a weak dollar, oil disruptions in the Middle East and changing perceptions of the global economy, have also fed rapidly changing prices.
Hedge funds and other speculators have become an increasing force in the commodities futures market, attracted in part by a switch to computerized trading. Critics say the technological switch is altering the dynamics of the commodities markets, just as it has in the stock market, which suffered its own 600-point ''flash crash'' last May.
The traditional players like grain elevators or cotton merchants are being overshadowed by the new breed of financial speculators, including high-frequency traders, who use automated programs to buy and sell repeatedly at machine-gun speeds.
The exchanges, which profit from the increased trading levels, say high-frequency trading now makes up 10 to 20 percent of the futures trading in many agricultural commodities, nearly a quarter of the trading in metals and 30 percent in energy futures markets.
The roller-coaster ride is also reviving claims that commodity prices are being pushed around by the flood of billions of dollars into futures markets from so-called index funds. These funds have grown in popularity over the last decade, favored by ordinary investors as well as institutions like pension funds and university endowments, all of whom now regard commodities as financial investment assets and important protections against inflation.
A growing body of research into the last commodity price run-up, in 2008, has turned up little evidence that investment futures funds were a primary cause.
Nevertheless, many companies and traders believe that these index investment flows have significantly contributed to commodity price increases.
Whatever the cause, the result has been higher prices for consumers. ''It is inevitable the consumer is going to pay more in a riskier, more volatile environment around commodities,'' said Troy Alstead, the chief financial officer of Starbucks. The coffee company raised the price of some drinks in its stores last fall and announced an average 12 percent rise in the price of its bagged coffees this spring.
A spokesman for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said that it was monitoring the markets but that volatility was an expected part of market dynamics.
However, it also has a real cost for many businesses.
In the meat industry, JBS, one of the country's biggest meat processors, traditionally insured against price swings by buying and selling futures on the Chicago Board of Trade.
But as futures have become less predictable, the company has tried to find other ways to manage its risk. It now often signs longer-term supply contracts with the cattle and hog producers it buys from and the supermarket chains it sells to, with provisions aimed at sharing the risk of rising costs.
''There is a premium that goes in because of the volatility of the marketplace,'' said Chandler Keys, vice president for government affairs and industry relations for JBS, which sells under such brands as Swift, Pilgrim and Country Pride. ''We have to protect ourselves.''
Chris L. Pieper, grain division manager of Farmers Cooperative, a grain elevator in Waverly, Neb., said that even small daily price movements added up because traders deal in huge amounts of goods.
''The volatility is really hard to outguess,'' he said.
In some cases, high volatility can be devastating. In 2008, in an earlier round of extreme volatility, several big cotton companies were forced out of business when they were unable to make enormous margin calls, which are increases in cash deposits required when futures contracts change in price.
According to Jerry Marshall of Yiyang Trading, a commodities trader and a former senior cotton trader at Cargill, the amount of money the exchanges require traders to post as collateral on futures contracts has risen drastically as volatility has grown.
The InterContinental Exchange requires from $6,000 to $8,400 in initial margin for each 50,000-pound cotton contract today. A year ago, the range was $1,500 to $2,100 per contract. Companies using the markets to hedge multiple contracts, which is typical, can quickly see their margin requirements swell into the hundreds of thousands of dollars or more.
Wallace L. Darneille, the chief executive of the Plains Cotton Cooperative Association, one of the biggest cotton producers in the United States, said the cooperative had cut back significantly on hedging with futures because of such concerns. ''The market is broken,'' he said. ''It no longer serves its purpose.''
Thomas W. Farley, president of ICE Futures US, which operates exchanges that trade futures contracts for cotton, cocoa, coffee, sugar and orange juice, said the buyers and sellers of these commodities had complained loudly that price swings were making it harder for them to use the market. In response, the exchange is taking steps to deal with volatility, such as strengthening circuit-breakers to slow down rapid price swings.
But he said that supply and demand were responsible for price changes, not other factors like high-speed electronic trading, and that the exchanges were working well in difficult times.
''In the absence of a change to the macroeconomic factors that are causing this high volatility,'' Mr. Farley said, ''this volatility is here to stay in these markets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chip Hewitt of Cota & Cota delivers heating oil in Vermont. Companies use futures to insure against rising prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERB SWANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Sean Cota, top, president of Cota & Cota Oil in Bellows Falls, Vt., says the cost of hedging fuel prices has risen more than 30 cents a gallon in less than a decade. Above, Chris Pieper of Farmers Cooperative in Waverly, Neb., says even small daily price movements add up because traders deal in huge amounts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAVE WEAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHARTS: Rising Uncertainty: Commodity prices have become subject to more violent price swings in recent months. (Sources: IntercontinentalExchange
 Chicago Mercantile Exchange) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (94%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (78%); COCOA MARKETS (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); PROPANE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); RETAILERS (71%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); INSURANCE POLICIES (67%); FOOD MFG (54%); LOBBYING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) VERMONT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



151 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Fervor Roils Markets as Companies Beat a Path to Go Public

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Companies are lining up to go public. Market conditions are favorable. Investor appetite is strong.
But not all the stocks are sure bets.
Following a string of healthy debuts, the pipeline for initial public offerings is bursting. In all, 168 companies are waiting to go public in the United States - the largest backlog since 2000, according to Renaissance Capital, an I.P.O. advisory firm. The group, which includes Dunkin' Brands, LinkedIn and Toys ''R'' Us, is aiming to raise some $38 billion.
The situation is similar overseas. Glencore, the world's largest commodities trader, is set to go public with a dual listing in Hong Kong and London. The offering, at roughly $10 billion, is on track to be the largest I.P.O. this year. 
''The I.P.O. market is a cycle, it's bought on hope, held in greed and sold in fear - we're in the first stage,'' said John E. Fitzgibbon Jr., founder of the research firm I.P.O. Scoop.
The pickup in public offerings is natural, given the strength of the broader equity markets. After suffering a setback during the European debt crisis, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is up 28 percent since August. It tracks the improvement in the deal-making environment, with mergers and acquisitions at their highest volume since before the financial crisis.
''There is a connection between the M.&A. market and going public,'' said David J. Goldschmidt, a lawyer at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom who specializes in capital markets transactions. ''Today we have a stronger M.&A. market and stronger stock market, which gives private companies the option to take a company public or to sell it.''
Investor interest is high, too. In one sign, traffic to Renaissance Capital's Web site rose 40 percent in April to 400,000 unique visitors and is on track to reach a record in May. Mr. Fitzgibbon of I.P.O. Scoop says the number of subscribers to his site has doubled from last year.
With investors clamoring, corporate issuers are increasingly gaining the upper hand in pricing their stocks. In April, the car rental company Zipcar sold its shares at $18 - a couple of dollars above its expected range. Zipcar currently trades at $25.
About 30 percent of offerings have priced above expectations so for this year, according to Renaissance Capital. In 2010, only 12 percent did the same.
''Last year, we had a market where investors had been in the driver's seat,'' said Kathleen S. Smith, a principal at Renaissance. ''Power is shifting, while investors are still driving, it's a better market for issuers.''
Some companies are being overly ambitious about pricing, as their stocks quickly give up their first-day gains. An index that tracks the performance of companies after their I.P.O. has risen just 2 percent this year. Benchmarks like the S.&P. 500 and the Russell 3000 index, which measures the performance of the 3,000 largest American companies, have gained 6 percent.
On Thursday, China-based NetQin, a mobile security services company, went public on the New York Stock Exchange, pricing at $11.50 a share, the top of its range. On the first day of trading, the stock fell 19 percent to close at $9.30.
''We're not really concerned about stock prices today or tomorrow,'' said NetQin's chief financial officer, Suhai Ji. He said he was more focused on the strategic value of going public, including the cachet of a listing on the N.Y.S.E. and building a platform for partnerships in the United States.
Internet plays are giving analysts the most pause. Amid the rise of Facebook, technology start-ups are beating a path to the public markets, looking to cash in early while investors still have Silicon Valley fever.
Several social media start-ups, valued in the multibillion-dollar range, are preparing to go public. The professional social network LinkedIn, which is trading at a $2 billion-plus valuation in the secondary markets, filed for its I.P.O. in January. Groupon, a popular social shopping site, is said to be in talks with bankers as it prepares for an offering later this year.
But the fervor has some analysts worried that valuations are becoming unhinged from fundamentals.
On Wednesday, Renren, often described as the Facebook of China, rose 29 percent on its first day of trading. The social networking site, which lost money last year, is now worth $6.6 billion, some 86 times last year's revenue.
At that level, the Chinese social networking site is trading at a premium to its much larger and more profitable counterpart in the United States. The privately held Facebook, whose revenue hit $2 billion last year, is trading at 40 times sales on a secondary exchange. The Internet search giant Google trades at 6 times in the public markets.
''I don't know about some of these valuations,'' said Peter Falvey, a managing director at Morgan Keegan. ''People are getting really excited, but it could end badly at some point.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Yu Lin, center, chief executive of NetQin, at the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday for its public offering. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VALERIE CAVINESS/NYSE EURONEXT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (55%); EURO CRISIS (51%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (83%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (57%); ZIPCAR INC (51%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (57%); ZIP (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



152 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Shipping Executives Defend Their Industry

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Rose George's April 25 Op-Ed article, ''Flying the Flag, Fleeing the State,'' presents an unfair picture of the highly professional and well-respected shipping industry. 
The world economy has been globalized and is served by a globalized maritime industry, under a globalized system of flag states, which are highly regulated both internationally and regionally. Global regulation of the shipping industry has reacted effectively to maritime incidents over many years to the benefit of both seafarers and the environment.
Ms. George claims a lack of transparency -- not so! Give us a list of 100 random ships and we could identify who the owners are.
We are particularly disturbed by her quoting a container ship captain referring to the merchant navy as ''scum of the earth.'' No one in our industry would refer to or treat seafarers in this way -- they are highly respected professionals.
If there is one thing the shipping industry is guilty of, it is not talking enough about its strengths.
ALASTAIR EVITT Liverpool, England, April 28, 2011
The writer is president of InterManager, a shipping association.
To the Editor:
Rose George claims that ''flags of convenience'' make it easy for ship owners to get away with criminal behavior. This is hyperbole.
Open registries, the organizations that register ships owned by foreign entities, came into being because national registries were not doing their jobs properly. There are good and bad national registries, just as there are good and bad open registries.
The writer says Liberia's registry ''flourished even during a dozen years of civil war.'' In fact, the Liberian Registry is managed from the United States and has flourished because it provides a proactive service for ship owners, in tandem with the highest, independently verified safety and crew welfare standards.
SCOTT R. BERGERON Chief Operating OfficerLiberian Registry Vienna, Va., April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); CIVIL WAR (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (54%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



153 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil Falls Below $100 a Barrel

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Oil prices closed below $100 a barrel on Thursday during a session in which most commodity prices fell sharply, signaling that a recent run-up in commodities prices may finally be coming to an end.
After four months of surging higher, oil prices plummeted by almost 9 percent as traders worried that American drivers were beginning to balk at paying nearly $4 a gallon of gasoline.
Energy specialists had a variety of explanations for the drop, including Thursday's weak employment data and a strengthening dollar that tends to make all dollar-denominated commodities cheaper in dollars and more expensive for holders of other currencies. 
''Pop goes the bubble,'' said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research, a consulting firm. ''It seems unlikely you will see any tightening in the market in the coming months. The worst of the political threats have passed us.''
Over the last four days, crude prices have declined by about 12 percent, the quickest drop so far this year. Similar declines have come for both light sweet crude, the United States benchmark, and Brent, the benchmark for Europe and Asia.
Gasoline prices have not yet declined, though experts say they have probably peaked and will begin falling in the next few days -- probably in time for the Memorial Day weekend. Prices at the pump increased by a fraction of a penny on Thursday, according to the AAA daily fuel gauge report, which reported that Americans paid an average of nearly $3.99 for a gallon of regular. That is still 10 cents higher than a week ago, 30 cents higher than a month ago, and more than $1 more than a year ago.
For the day, crude oil for June delivery tumbled $9.44 a barrel, or 8.6 percent, to settle at $99.80 in New York trading.
Almost all commodities prices took a tumble on Thursday. Gold for June delivery dropped 2.2 percent, or $33.90, to $1,481.40 an ounce, while silver lost 8 percent or $3.148, to $36.24 an ounce. Other metals -- including nickel, copper, palladium and platinum -- all fell sharply. Coffee, corn, cotton, wheal and soybeans also dropped.
Equity markets were also lower on the day with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 1.1 percent while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 0.91 percent. The broader Nasdaq declined 0.48 percent.
Energy experts say that oil was particularly due for a price correction after rising more than 30 percent over the last year.
The Energy Department reported that crude inventories last week had risen by 3.4 million barrels, largely because gasoline sales have eased. A variety of government and private surveys in recent days indicated that gasoline demand declined over last month by between 1.2 percent and 4 percent from the year before.
Mastercard's SpendingPulse, a report based on national retail sales and activity in MasterCard payments network, has reported six consecutive weeks of declines in gasoline consumption compared to last year. The declines have been shrinking in the last two weeks, however, and consumption for the week ending last Friday was only 0.6 percent lower than a year earlier.
Tom Kloza, the senior oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, said that while ''most people are not changing their driving habits,'' drivers in rural areas in the West and Southeast -- where incomes tend to be lower and driving distances longer -- are cutting back.
''The driver can expect to see a slow erosion of prices,'' Mr. Kloza said. ''My expectation is what people pay this week will be the highest they pay for 90 days.''
Mr. Kloza predicted that the price of a regular gallon of gasoline would drop about a quarter by Memorial Day to $3.75, and gasoline could drop as low as $3.50 a gallon later in the summer. Other analysts said oil prices would continue to decline in the coming days.
''One day does not make a trend, but this correction was overdue,'' said Addison Armstrong, senior director for market research at Tradition Energy, a consulting firm. ''The selling today was aided by an incredibly strong move in the dollar and the beginnings of some demand destruction. The fundamentals have not been strong enough to justify these levels.''
The most immediate reason for the oil price spike since January -- the turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East -- continues to threaten oil supplies. Libya, an OPEC producer that provides high-quality crude that is difficult to replace, remains virtually off the world market. However aside from Libya, unrest has so far not had a significant impact on oil production or deliveries through strategic ports and waterways.
Meanwhile Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Oman and other important producers have so far remained largely stable, despite fears that political instability could create trouble for their oil fields. OPEC's intentions remain a question mark. Early in the Libya crisis, Saudi Arabia pledged to expand its production capacity to fill any gaps in the market. But in recent weeks the kingdom has actually decreased production, saying the world market is flush with supplies.
OPEC spokesmen have given few hints about where the cartel wants prices and production levels to go since the last meeting of the group in December. OPEC meets again June 8, but with tensions high between Saudi Arabia and Iran, oil experts wonder if OPEC members can come up with an acceptable consensus to alter current policies to either cut or add to world supplies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%)

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (60%)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (60%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



154 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Ending Run, Investors Abandon Commodities

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Binyamin Appelbaum, Seth Feaster, Christine Hauser and William Neuman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Commodities prices fell sharply on Thursday, led by the steepest drop in oil prices since the fall of 2008.
Investors dumped commodities like silver and coffee and sugar that had seen a vast -- and some said worrying -- build up in prices within the last year on expectations of strong global demand.
The sharp sell-offs in part were prompted by fears about a slowdown in economic growth in the United States and around the world. 
After four months of surging higher, oil prices plummeted by 9 percent as traders worried that American drivers were beginning to balk at paying nearly $4 a gallon of gasoline. Oil fell below $100 a barrel for the first time in two months.
''Pop goes the bubble,'' said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research , a consulting firm.
Gasoline prices have not yet declined, though experts say they have probably peaked and will begin falling in the next few days -- probably in time for the Memorial Day weekend.
Equity markets were also lower with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 1.1 percent while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 0.91 percent. The declines came as the markets await the April jobs report to be released Friday, with analysts expecting weak employment growth.
''One day does not make a trend, but this correction was overdue,'' said Addison Armstrong, senior director for market research at Tradition Energy, a consulting firm.
In a gut-wrenching drop, the Reuters-Jefferies CRB index, which measures prices for a basket of commodities such as oil, metals and grains, fell 4.9 percent, its biggest one-day percentage drop since March 2009. The index has fallen 8 percent over the last four days; in March, it fell nearly 7 percent over a period of six days.
''It was a horrendous day,'' said Douglas J. Hepworth, director of research at Gresham Investment Management, which specializes in commodities.
However, analysts cautioned that the respite from high commodities prices might only be temporary. The trends that have led to the rise in prices for food, energy and metals -- a growing middle class in China, India and other developing countries, and the unrest in the Middle East -- have not gone away. Meanwhile, many economists are optimistic that the current inconsistent performance of the United States economy is only temporary, and growth will strengthen later this year.
Still, many saw price drops as a healthy correction after what seemed an unsustainable run-up in commodities prices. The price of silver, for example, has risen 149 percent since September 2010. The run-ups had drawn repeated warnings from the Federal Reserve in recent months that they would not last.
''I think it's very healthy,'' said Michael Rose, a trader at Angus Jackson. ''The market was like a seesaw with everyone on one side, and now the markets will have time to clear out and balance.''
He added, ''The losers are going to be the small investors who thought it was going to go on forever like in the cases of the real estate and Internet bubbles.''
Traders and analysts said the sell-off had a combination of causes. One of the initial triggers was comments by Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, who suggested in remarks to traders in Frankfurt that European interest rates would not be rising until later this year -- later than many had anticipated.
This put downward pressure on the euro, and led to a rally for the dollar. Many commodities are denominated in the dollar, and as these became more expensive globally, this immediately prompted selling in nervous commodities markets, particularly oil.
''You're in a situation where a lot of these markets have pushed to all-time highs and it's at a point where it became very unstable and that's where you started to topple,'' said Dax L. Wedemeyer, a broker analyst with US Commodities, a brokerage firm West Des Moines, Iowa.
He said that investment funds seemed to be pulling out of commodities, including both hedge funds and the long-only index funds.
But commodities markets had been on edge for days after the CME Group began to raise margin requirements at the end of last month for the silver market, requiring traders to put down extra collateral to compensate for the higher prices.
The move by the exchange, which was worried that traders could get caught out by the extreme volatility in prices that had accompanied the price rises, precipitated a sharp sell-off in silver in recent days. The silver price fell a further 8 percent on Thursday, taking its decline to more than a quarter since the peak at the end of April.
''People reacted to the dollar, to Trichet and to silver,'' said Paul Horsnell, head of commodities research at Barclays Capital. ''Silver is one of the least important markets but it had become a beacon'' for unease in the commodities markets, he said.
Market players said investors were also nervous that regulators would soon intervene to limit what many saw as a feeding frenzy in commodities.
After surging since January, the decline in oil prices on Thursday sent the price of a barrel of light sweet crude below the psychologically important barrier of $100.
Energy experts say that oil was due for a price correction after rising more than 30 percent over the last year.
The drop should feed through to the gas pump. Prices are currently 30 cents a gallon on average higher than a month ago and more than $1 higher than a year ago.
''The driver can expect to see a slow erosion of prices,'' said Tom Kloza, senior oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service. ''My expectation is what people pay this week will be the highest they pay for 90 days.''
Oil stockpiles in the United States and other industrial countries have been full, leading experts to expect a correction in prices that had been driven higher by fears that unrest in the Middle East would spread to vital oil producers like Saudi Arabia and Algeria.
The Energy Department reported that crude inventories last week had risen by 3.4 million barrels, largely because gasoline sales had eased. A variety of government and private surveys in recent days indicate that gasoline demand declined over the last month from 1.2 to 4 percent from the year before. Analysts said this news had been one of the factors behind the sell-off Thursday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade and elsewhere were selling hand over fist. ''Pop goes the bubble,'' one consultant said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) CHART: SHARP DROP IN COMMODITY PRICES: Led by declines in crude oil and silver, the ThomsonReuters/ Jefferies CRB commodity index fell sharply on Thursday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); TRENDS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (79%); COFFEE MARKETS (79%); FOOD PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



155 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Bill Would Help Charter Schools for At-Risk Students

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH

 BODY:
When Mansoor Kapasi first began taking his students to chess tournaments, the other parents wondered if they were part of a gang.
He said his students -- now well known within the Austin chess-playing community -- provide a ''huge contrast'' to the mostly privileged crowds at chess tournaments. They are primarily economically disadvantaged and minority. Many have limited English proficiency. And all have either dropped out of high school or come close.
Mr. Kapasi teaches at Austin Can! Academy, a charter high school on the city's east side with 380 students that has a focus on those at high risk for dropping out.
Now, because of the way the state calculates high school completion and dropout rates, schools like Austin Can! could face closure. Supporters say such schools are unintentionally penalized for serving a challenging student population. A bill in the State Legislature aims to fix the formula for assessing completion and dropout rates, but some academics question whether that will just make it easier for school districts to jettison their problem children, allowing at-risk students to fall through the cracks. 
Recovery charter schools in Texas serve about 18,000 students who have performed poorly at traditional public schools, according to state data from the 2009-10 school year. Many have skipped too many classes or used too many drugs to graduate on time. Others have gotten pregnant or have emotional problems or learning disabilities. Recovery charters offer a second chance.
Kimberly Smith dropped out of McCallum High School in Austin during the first semester of her freshman year. She said she was experiencing anxiety attacks and depression. ''I felt trapped inside,'' she said, adding, ''I was pretty much in bed just sleeping all day long, just basically crying.''
Now a sophomore at Austin Can!, Ms. Smith, 17, says the flexible schedule allows her to take fewer class hours so she can attend psychotherapy sessions.
A break from the regular eight-hour class day is essential for other students who have to work or watch children, or have behavioral problems, said Josie Duckett, vice president for public and government affairs at the Texas Charter Schools Association. Charter schools can provide more attention-intensive learning environments.
''A lot of times kids don't have this support system at home, and this is the first time adults are caring for them and believing in them,'' Ms. Duckett said.
Under Texas Education Agency accountability standards, alternative schools like dropout recovery charters have to meet two requirements in addition to financial and TAKS-based criteria: At least 60 percent of students must graduate or receive a G.E.D. in four years or continue to their fifth year; and they can have a dropout rate no higher than 20 percent, based on the number of students enrolled in one year who make it through the next September.
Those standards can wreck the accountability ratings of schools like Austin Can! because students often go to them after failing to graduate in four years from their previous schools, and the four-year clock does not reset once they enter a new school. Because the schools serve students who have already dropped out of traditional schools, they often get hit hard by the dropout measurement as well.
''Once a student comes to our schools, we can't deny them -- it doesn't matter if they had horrific attendance, if they are 20 and have one credit,'' said Toni Templeton, of the state charter association. ''If we have them for one day, if they don't stay with us and return the following fall, they are a dropout.''
A charter school that receives an ''unacceptable'' rating for two years or more can have its accreditation revoked. The state can also prohibit charter holders from opening new schools. Thirteen charter campuses are in danger of closing because of high dropout or low completion rates.
Senator Leticia Van de Putte, Democrat of San Antonio, has filed legislation that adjusts the way the state measures dropout and completion rates for charters that serve at-risk students. It would allow the schools to receive credit for students who graduate within six years and exempt students 17 and older from counting as dropouts. There is a similar proposal in the House.
Despite its limited scope, the six-year completion measure, if enacted, would make Texas a national leader in dropout recovery programs, according to Lili Allen, program director of the postsecondary division at Jobs for the Future, a Boston-based nonprofit that has researched dropout policies across the country.
''It would continue to hold them to a high standard but would make it an appropriate standard for those who support a majority population who are off track or who have dropped out all together,'' Ms. Allen said.
By focusing on rules surrounding the revocation of charters, Ms. Van de Putte's legislation avoids making changes to the state accountability system, which could be perceived as lowering standards, said Sarah Gomez, a spokeswoman for the senator. Such changes, she said, would most likely encounter opposition from the Texas Education Agency and other members of the Legislature who believe the current system already provides enough relief for schools who deal with high-risk students.
Still, some education experts argue that Ms. Van de Putte's proposal gives special treatment to charter schools. Conclusions about dropout rates at charter schools and traditional districts are mixed -- largely due to the difficulty of accessing student-level data that accurately identifies former dropouts who have re-enrolled in schools. But Julian Vasquez Heilig, a professor at the University of Texas College of Education who studies how incentive systems affect student achievement, said his research had found a higher dropout rate for all charters -- not just those that focus on dropout recovery -- when compared with their peer districts. He said he strongly opposes what he viewed as a weakening of accountability standards for those schools.
''The thing is that districts deal with dropouts too, and so you would think that charter schools would be able to stack up against traditional districts when it comes to dropout rates,'' he said. ''If they are going to compete against public schools for public dollars, then they should meet the same standards.''
He also worries that the measure could make it easier for dropout recovery charters to become ''holding bins'' for traditional school districts to dump their problem students. ''You off-load the kids into these charters, and then they disappear into oblivion,'' he said.
For Ms. Smith, at least, that hasn't been the case. She wakes up at 4:45 every morning to take the train from her Georgetown home to classes at Austin Can!, which she said was the only school that would enroll her.
''I have no idea where I would be without this school,'' she said. ''It's been a very big help to me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Premier High School of Austin, above. Left, Jeremy Coleman teaches Juan Orellana to play guitar at Austin Can! Below, Nemir Naayem, a substitute teacher, watches the hallways at Austin Premier during TAKS testing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALEB BRYANT MILLER/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); BOARD GAMES (92%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (86%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



156 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: The Bar Code That Tells You How Much Water, Light and Fertilizer

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
WHETHER it's a piece of pipe or new kitchen cabinets, many Americans search for the right product in the aisles of home improvement stores like Home Depot or Lowe's, trying to quickly identify what they need.
The big-box stores are introducing some help to provide customers with immediate information for their buying decisions. They are adding bar codes to certain products that give potential buyers on-the-spot access to product reviews and ratings, how-to guides and videos. 
This will gradually expand across a greater range of products in the thousands of stores across the country as the huge home improvement retailers, which have been hit by the poor economy, seek to prompt consumers to undertake repairs or renovations they have been delaying.
For now, garden plants sold at Home Depot and Lowe's have bar codes on each plant tag that enable customers with smartphone scanners to check out whether the plant, for example, grows in low light or needs frequent watering.
This is the season when stores sell millions of garden plants, which are an important segment of the business. At Lowe's, for example, nursery sales, which also include trees and flowers, were 4 percent of the chain's total $48.8 billion sales in the fiscal year ended Jan. 28.
Chris Gerhard, a home gardener and real estate broker in San Antonio, says mobile bar codes have greatly improved her gardening outcomes.
''Those little plastic tags on plants always had minimal information,'' she said of her purchases at her local Home Depot. ''Now, with the bar codes, you can scan them and figure out immediately what is going to grow in the sun, when to plant and how far apart to place plants.
''That's great for me because in this climate you can fry things to a crisp, and I have. This helped me know exactly what would work on my front porch and back patio without wasting a lot of time and money.''
Home Depot also has placed codes on its outdoor patio sets and is running a 30-second bar code commercial nationwide on cable and network television. It is also experimenting with newspaper circulars carrying bar codes that instantly link to a video about its new line, Martha Stewart Living Kitchens.
In the video, Ms. Stewart discusses the various styles of kitchen cabinets, counters and other items that are available, and invites customers to make an in-store appointment with a Home Depot kitchen designer.
Tom Sweeney, director of online strategy for homedepot.com, said the bar code pilots are about extending the company's ''anytime, anywhere'' marketing strategy.
''We are testing this out on specific product categories,'' he said, of mobile bar codes, ''but it's too early to understand how, and whether, customers will use this technology.''
''Large-ticket items, for example, require research, so there may not be an immediate purchase even with the information at the customer's fingertips,'' he said.
Roger Marquis, a marketing expert who blogs about bar codes, questioned whether Home Depot or Lowe's were giving their customers a useful experience that would prompt them to routinely scan codes and induce them to buy.
''A lot of marketers look at bar-code technology as a silver bullet to engage customers,'' he said. ''There's a disconnect. They are not giving enough information about what bar codes are, and not integrating the technology into their marketing strategies. If the user doesn't have a worthwhile experience, then they aren't going to scan codes, and the technology will die on the vine.''
Lowe's has taken steps, like building a mobile version of its Web site, to make information more accessible to customers, said Gihad Jawhar, vice president of lowes.com.
The company introduced the readable tags last November for its poinsettias and fresh-cut trees, directing customers to its plant guide with instructions on care, including how much water, fertilizer and light to supply.
This spring, the trees in containers sold at Lowe's garden centers began carrying tags that could be scanned to view a two-minute how-to video on the specifics of tree planting, including what soil to buy. One of the main reasons for container tree returns is unsuccessful planting, said a Lowe's spokeswoman, Colleen Carbott.
Lowe's is using Microsoft tag technology -- colorful squares -- which looks different from the black-and-white checked quick-response codes at Home Depot.
''We also have a star rating system on our product pages with user-generated content that is to be accessed by customers,'' Mr. Jawhar noted. Lowe's will not place the bar codes on items like a bag of cement, he said, but plans to place them on products that lend themselves to how-to information.
Mike Wehrs, chief executive of Scanbuy, the mobile bar code platform that works with Home Depot, said more than 25 million people in the United States already had the ability to scan with their mobile phones. He expects the number to increase as more people acquire smartphones.
''Mobile bar-code scanning experienced a 1,600 percent increase in traffic last year,'' he said. Besides quick customer access, he said retailers can also choose to receive data on customer scans, including which products are scanned most and their geographical location.
Customers like Keri Stevens, of Verona, Ky., already are convinced. While shopping with her three sons recently in Home Depot, one noticed a bar code on a potted cactus. An admitted ''black thumb'' gardener, Ms. Stevens bought it only after scanning the bar code to find out the care details.
''Now we look for bar codes together,'' said Ms. Stevens. ''We make it a treasure hunt, and my kids see scanning bar codes as the new normal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In this Home Depot commercial, a customer uses her smartphone to scan the plant's bar code to check what it prefers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME CENTERS (92%); RETAILERS (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); GARDENING (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); FERTILIZERS (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); MARKETING STRATEGY (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); LOWE'S COS INC (92%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); LOW (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



157 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Fears And Failure

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
From G.D.P. to private-sector payrolls, from business surveys to new claims for unemployment insurance, key economic indicators suggest that the recovery may be sputtering.
And it wasn't much of a recovery to start with. Employment has risen from its low point, but it has grown no faster than the adult population. And the plight of the unemployed continues to worsen: more than six million Americans have been out of work for six months or longer, and more than four million have been jobless for more than a year.
It would be nice if someone in Washington actually cared. 
It's not as if our political class is feeling complacent. On the contrary, D.C. economic discourse is saturated with fear: fear of a debt crisis, of runaway inflation, of a disastrous plunge in the dollar. Scare stories are very much on politicians' minds.
Yet none of these scare stories reflect anything that is actually happening, or is likely to happen. And while the threats are imaginary, fear of these imaginary threats has real consequences: an absence of any action to deal with the real crisis, the suffering now being experienced by millions of jobless Americans and their families.
What does Washington currently fear? Topping the list is fear that budget deficits will cause a fiscal crisis any day now. In fact, a number of people -- like Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, the co-chairmen of President Obama's debt commission -- have settled on a specific time frame: terrible things will happen within two years unless we make drastic spending cuts.
I have no idea where that two-year deadline comes from. After all, what we do in the next couple of years hardly matters at all for U.S. solvency, which mainly depends on what we'll do in the long run about Medicare and taxes. And, for what it's worth, actual investors -- people putting real money on the line -- are notably unworried about any near-term fiscal crisis: the Treasury Department continues to have no trouble selling debt and remains able to borrow very cheaply, indicating high confidence on the part of investors that debts will be repaid in full.
Do the scare-mongers even believe their own stories? Maybe not. As Jonathan Chait of The New Republic notes, the politicians most given to apocalyptic rhetoric about the deficit are also utterly opposed to any tax increase; they argue that debt is destroying America, but they'd rather let that happen than accept even a dime of higher taxes. Yet the inconsistency and probable insincerity of their fear-mongering hasn't stopped it from having a huge effect on policy debate.
The deficit isn't the only unfounded fear. I've written before about misguided inflation fear, but, for now, let me focus on a new issue that has suddenly begun to loom large in opinion pieces and remarks on talk shows: fear of a disastrous plunge in the dollar. (Who sends out the memos telling people what to worry about, and why don't I get them?)
What you would never know from all the agitated dollar discussion is that the recent dollar slide is actually tiny compared with big drops in the past, notably under the administration of George W. Bush and during Ronald Reagan's second term. And you'd also never know that those earlier dollar slides, far from hurting the economy, were beneficial, because they helped U.S. manufacturing compete on world markets.
Which brings me back to the destructive effect of focusing on invisible monsters. For the clear and present danger to the American economy isn't what some people imagine might happen one of these days, it's what is actually happening now.
Unemployment isn't just blighting the lives of millions, it's undermining America's future. The longer this goes on, the more workers will find it impossible ever to return to employment, the more young people will find their prospects destroyed because they can't find a decent starting job. It may not create excited chatter on cable TV, but the unemployment crisis is real, and it's eating away at our society.
Yet any action to help the unemployed is vetoed by the fear-mongers. Should we spend modest sums on job creation? No way, say the deficit hawks, who threaten us with the purely hypothetical wrath of financial markets, and, in fact, demand that we slash spending now now now -- which might well send us back into recession. Should the Federal Reserve do more to promote expansion? No, say the inflation and dollar hawks, who have been wrong again and again but insist that this time their dire warnings about runaway prices and a plunging dollar really will be vindicated.
So we're paying a heavy price for Washington's obsession with phantom menaces. By looking for trouble in all the wrong places, our political class is preventing us from dealing with the real crisis: the millions of American men and women who can't find work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); TAX INCREASES (67%); TAX LAW (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); ERSKINE BOWLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



158 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Judge Allows Redlining Suits to Proceed

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
Two lawsuits accusing Wells Fargo of discriminatory lending practices have been allowed to move forward, a victory for plaintiffs that have accused the bank of steering African-Americans toward predatory loans. 
In one lawsuit, brought by the city of Memphis and Shelby County, Tenn., Judge S. Thomas Anderson of Federal District Court for the Western District of Tennessee on Wednesday denied a motion from Wells Fargo to dismiss, partly on the grounds that the suit was too broadly drawn. Both jurisdictions accused the lender of improperly steering African-Americans toward loan products that ultimately led to foreclosures, vacancies and increased government costs.
''The City of Memphis and Shelby County have not alleged that Wells Fargo lending practices resulted in a host of social and political ills plaguing entire sections of the community,'' Judge Anderson wrote in a 32-page order. ''Rather plaintiffs contend that defendants have targeted individual property owners with specific lending practices (reverse redlining), resulting in specific effects (foreclosures and vacancies) at specific properties, which in turn created specific costs (services and tax revenue) for local government.''
Judge Anderson's ruling came two weeks after Judge J. Frederick Motz, of Federal District Court in Maryland denied Wells Fargo's attempt to dismiss a similar lawsuit brought by the mayor and city council of Baltimore. Two previous versions of that lawsuit, claiming reverse redlining, in which the bank steered African-Americans toward more predatory loans, had been dismissed by the court.
But this time, Judge Motz said city officials had narrowed the allegations enough to show a plausible link between Well Fargo's actions and its impact on the city. The issue, he said, was whether ''the city has plausibly alleged that the properties in question would not have become vacant but for the allegedly improper loans made by Wells Fargo.''
He said the city provided the link by claiming that Wells Fargo deliberately steered African-American borrowers who qualified for prime mortgages into subprime loans. As a result, the plaintiffs claim, borrowers who could have kept up with payments on a prime loan defaulted because of the more expensive subprime payments.
The city also contends that Wells Fargo approved mortgage refinancing or home equity loans for African-American borrowers even though it knew or should have known that the borrowers couldn't afford the payments.
Decades of economic gains by African-Americans in many of the nation's cities have been reversed by unemployment and foreclosures. While many factors have contributed to the decline, some have accused the nation's largest banks of pushing blacks toward predatory loans that ultimately led to more foreclosures and vacancies. Asked about the two recent rulings, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, Teri Schrettenbrunner, said: ''We disagree with these rulings, and we will present the facts which we believe will ultimately win these cases. Our team members make loan pricing decisions based on credit and transaction risks, consistently treating our customers fairly.''
In its legal responses to the lawsuit, Wells Fargo had also maintained that Baltimore's housing woes were caused by ''a complex weave of social and economic factors'' rather than its own lending practices.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Memphis claims that bank practices led to vacant homes like the one John Harper, 19, lives next to. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); MAYORS (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (61%); PERSONAL FINANCE (61%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



159 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Posts Big Loss in Continuing Operations

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The American International Group reported on Thursday a loss of more than $1 billion from its continuing operations in the first quarter after it took a huge charge for the termination of its credit facility with the Federal Reserve. 
A.I.G.'s Chartis unit also had $864 million in catastrophe losses related to the March 11 earthquake in Japan. The company, one of the top foreign insurers in Japan, had warned of substantial quake charges.
Shares of A.I.G., which have lost more than 30 percent of their value since late January, fell nearly 1.6 percent in after-hours trading, to $30.30. Earlier they had fallen 85 cents, or nearly 2.7 percent, to close at $30.79.
The loss from continuing operations was $1.18 billion, or $1.41 a share, compared with a profit of $2.09 billion, or $2.16 a share, in the period a year ago.
A.I.G., in a statement, focused on the net income figure attributable to A.I.G., which it said was $269 million, down from $1.8 billion in the year-earlier period.
The Fed charge totaled $3.3 billion and was related to the recapitalization deal that closed in January. That arrangement paid off the Fed and left the Treasury with a 92 percent stake in the company.
The Treasury is expected to start selling down that position this month. The price is unclear. A.I.G.'s shares have fallen since the recapitalization closed, and they are near the government's $28.72 break-even point.
On an operating basis, A.I.G. said its Chartis property and casualty business increased net written premiums nearly 20 percent in the quarter, representing a pickup in its United States operations and the consolidation of Fuji Fire and Marine in Japan.
A.I.G.'s domestic life insurer, SunAmerica, reported flat operating income, though its crucial annuity business continued to rebound after difficulties during the financial crisis, when the company took a $182 billion bailout.
During the quarter, A.I.G. closed the sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison businesses to Prudential Financial. The proceeds led to a $1.65 billion profit from discontinued operations in the period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (76%); LIFE INSURANCE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); BAILOUTS (69%); SALES & SELLING (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (95%); FUJI FIRE & MARINE INSURANCE CO LTD (58%); CHARTIS INC (58%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (52%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (95%); 8685 (TSE) (95%); PRU (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



160 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: The Politics Of Solipsism

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The United States, as you know, was founded as a republic, not simply as a democracy. The distinction has been lost over the past few decades, but it is an important one.
The believers in a democracy have unlimited faith in the character and judgment of the people and believe that political institutions should be responsive to their desires. The believers in a republic have large but limited faith in the character and judgment of the people and erect institutions and barriers to improve that character and guide that judgment.
America's founders were republicans. This was not simply elitism, a matter of some rich men distrusting the masses. This was a belief that ran through society and derived from an understanding of history. As Irving Kristol put it in a brilliant 1974 essay called ''Republican Virtue vs. Servile Institutions,'' ''The common man is not a fool, and the proof is that he has such modest faith in himself.'' 
The first citizens of this country erected institutions to protect themselves from their own shortcomings. We're familiar with some of them: the system of checks and balances, the Senate, etc. More important, they believed, was public spiritedness -- a system of habits and attitudes that would check egotism and self-indulgence.
As Kristol points out in the essay, the meaning of the phrase ''public spiritedness'' has flipped since the 18th century. Now we think a public-spirited person is somebody with passionate opinions about public matters, one who signs petitions and becomes an activist for a cause.
In its original sense, it meant the opposite. As Kristol wrote, it meant ''curbing one's passions and moderating one's opinions in order to achieve a large consensus that will ensure domestic tranquility.'' Instead of self-expression, it meant self-restraint. It was best exemplified in the person of George Washington.
Over the years, the democratic values have swamped the republican ones. We're now impatient with any institution that stands in the way of the popular will, regarding it as undemocratic and illegitimate. Politicians see it as their duty to serve voters in the way a business serves its customers. The customer is always right.
A few things have been lost in this transition. Because we take it as a matter of faith that the people are good, we are no longer alert to arrangements that may corrode the character of the nation. For example, many generations had a moral aversion to debt. They believed that to go into debt was to indulge your basest urges and to surrender your future independence. That aversion has clearly been overcome.
We no longer have a leadership class -- of the sort that existed as late as the Truman and Eisenhower administrations -- that believes that governing means finding an equilibrium between different economic interests and a balance between political factions. Instead, we have the politics of solipsism. The political culture encourages politicians and activists to imagine that the country's problems would be solved if other people's interests and values magically disappeared.
The democratic triumph has created a nation that runs up huge debt and is increasingly incapable of finding a balance between competing interests. Today, the country faces three intertwined economic challenges. We have to make the welfare state fiscally sustainable. We have to do it in a way that preserves the economic dynamism in the country -- that provides incentives for creative destruction. We also have to do it in a way that preserves social cohesion -- that reduces the growing economic and lifestyle gaps between the educated and less educated.
These three goals are in tension with one another, but to prosper America has to address all three at the same time.
Voters will have to embrace institutional arrangements that restrain their desire to spend on themselves right now. Political leaders will have to find ways to moderate solipsistic tribalism and come up with tax and welfare state reforms that balance economic dynamism and social cohesion.
Over the past months, there has been some progress in getting Americans to accept the need for self-restraint. With their various budget approaches, the Simpson-Bowles commission, Paul Ryan and President Obama have sent the message that politics can no longer be about satisfying voters' immediate needs. The public hasn't bought it yet, but progress is being made.
There has been less progress in getting political leaders to come up with compromises that balance dynamism and cohesion. Republicans still mostly talk about incentives for growth, and Democrats still mostly talk about economic security. The breakthrough, if there is one, will come from the least directly democratic parts of the government, from the Senate or some commission of Establishment bigwigs. It will be enacted when voters realize we need to build arrangements to protect ourselves from our own weaknesses. It will all depend on reviving the republican virtues upon which the country was founded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); PETITIONS (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



161 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: Ephemeral Events, Annotated

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
The possibly premature, hit-and-miss survey of Francis Alys's quixotic, politically aware, yet obstinately poetic art at the Museum of Modern Art pretty much covers the neo-Conceptual waterfront, from the ridiculous to the sublime, and the slight to the resonant.
Mr. Alys (pronounced uh-LEASE) is a widely admired master of the small gesture and the ephemeral event. Born in Belgium in 1959, he trained as an architect and has lived and worked in Mexico City since 1986, having moved there to work on rebuilding projects after the 1985 earthquake. It wasn't until around 1989, when he turned 30, that he segued into art. Inspired by the urban landscape, he began executing solitary walking events and street actions. One of his earliest pieces -- a kind of farewell to architectural solutions, perhaps -- was to stuff pillows into the frames of broken windows that he found during his strolls. 
Among his better-known feats is a 1997 performance in which he pushed a block of ice along the streets of Mexico City until it melted away, a work said to parody Minimalism, general notions of progress and the economic stability whose elusiveness bedevils Mexico. That piece, ''Paradox of Praxis I (Sometimes Doing Something Leads to Nothing),'' illustrates one of Mr. Alys's favorite axioms, ''Maximum effort, minimal result.'' For another work, this one from 2001, he walked around the city holding a loaded revolver pointed at the ground until he was arrested by the police. (It took about 11 minutes.)
Both these pieces are recapped in short videos at the Modern, but you barely need to see them and certainly not more than once. As with earlier classics of Conceptual performance -- Chris Burden having himself shot in the arm, Vito Acconci masturbating under the floorboards -- they are vivid one-liners that stick in the mind and have little to do with visual experience.
The show ''Francis Alys: A Story of Deception'' is split between the Modern and MoMA P.S. 1. It was organized with the Tate Modern in London, and has been overseen in New York by Klaus Biesenbach, the Modern's chief curator at large and director of MoMA P.S. 1, and Cara Starke, the museum's assistant curator of media and performance art. Working with Mr. Alys, they have devised an exceptional installation. But still, too often the show confirms the Modern's blind devotion to the wan, cerebral machinations of late-late-late Conceptualism.
As seen here Mr. Alys's work whipsaws a visitor between engagement and boredom, serious consideration and dismissal. It charms then irritates, and can set off invigorating internal arguments about the nature of art and its relationship to the world. At certain points you may wonder if the emperor has any clothes and then conclude that while not entirely naked -- in fact he wears some amazing garments -- neither is he fully dressed.
The exhibition is dominated by video, which so far seems to be Mr. Alys's forte, but it is garnished, you might say, with sometimes appealing paintings and sculptures and also extensive backup materials: studies, notes, texts and newspaper clippings pertaining to most of the works on view. These materials are displayed on glass-topped counters or tables with stools encouraging close scrutiny, and they portend a few things: a basic lack of humor; gaps between what artworks convey on their own and what they are supposed to mean (as explained by labels, background materials and catalog entries); and an enervating emphasis on narrative and language as the main conduit of experience.
The strongest videos, interestingly, tend to be those in which Mr. Alys stays behind the camera, directing the actions of other people. The arduous, inspirational ''When Faith Moves Mountains'' (2002) -- documented in three videos and several drawings and presaged in an endearing landscape painting titled ''Virtues'' from 1992 -- involved 500 volunteers working shoulder to shoulder with shovels to ''move'' an immense sand dune that lies among the shantytowns outside Lima, Peru. A plebian, low-tech, no-budget version of Christo and Jeanne-Claude's ''Gates'' piece that overtook Central Park in 2005 and a work of mass endurance art, this effort changed the dune almost not at all, but it may have changed its participants, and watching it inspires a vague kind of hope.
Also good is the irritating, didactic, but nonetheless richly suggestive ''Politics of Rehearsal'' (2005-7), in which a Hispanic stripper and a blond soprano working up a German lieder share a rehearsal stage while a voice parses the supposedly American-instilled pursuit of development and its chronic problems (without offering any alternative).
And altogether different, not least for being set in the Old World, is ''Guards,'' shot in London in 2004-5, the best work by far in the show's P.S. 1 portion. It centers on members of the Coldstream Guards -- they of the towering bearskin hats and red coats who protect Buckingham Palace -- walking alone through the City of London until they start finding one another and begin marching in precise, foot-stamping formation, a surprisingly affecting study in almost robotlike discipline and human geometry. There are 64 guards in total, and once they are completely reassembled, they march to the nearest bridge and disperse, resuming life as humans.
Mr. Alys's forays into painting are uneven and often ingratiating, but not without charm. Colorful, visionary semi-abstractions and rather more negligible smudges of color on vellumlike paper form a kind of timeline in an installation called ''En una Situacion Dada'' (2000-10), set forth in a small gallery and also including a few photographs and sundry Post-its scrawled with words and phrases. In a larger space the 111 postcard-size canvases of ''Le Temps du Sommeil'' line the walls single file and tend to cancel one another out. Tiny scenes that fuse aspects of Mexican ex-voto folk paintings with Bosch-like impishness and touches of Magritte's Surrealism (men in suits), they summarize Mr. Alys's performances and are periodically reworked, which makes them something like a performance themselves. The P.S. 1 display includes new, slightly larger paintings, of a woman walking with a scythe in her hand and, across from that, a man carrying a hammer; their patchy frescolike surfaces suggest the worn walls of buildings.
The show's sculptures include ''The Collector'' a continuing work at the Modern, started in 1991, which consists of a steel shelf full of small toylike forms on wheels that Mr. Alys made from discarded metal containers. They're magnetized and, according to the artist's notes in the catalog, each is to be dragged around until ''completely smothered by its trophies,'' although most of them look pretty clean and have attracted only a few bottle caps and some suspiciously new-looking screws.
Mr. Alys is a darling of the international curatorial elite, with its abhorrence of the art market and commodification and its exaltation of the participatory, the political and the physically unstable. His work is part of an amorphous, multimedia tendency that has yielded plenty of good art, including some by him, but that is beginning to verge on hegemonic. And, as this exhibition sometimes demonstrates, avoiding art-market commodification doesn't rule out being thoroughly fetishized by one's admirers.
There is practically a bubble of preciousness and awe around this show. One photograph in ''En Una Situacion Dada'' shows a boy, his head tilted back, with a plastic spoon held to his nose by static electricity. It is part of a series of photographs of found ''street actions'' from 1989-90 and demonstrates, according to a fatuously portentous catalog entry, how ''Alys understood such acts as challenges to the authority of the notion of social and industrial design, and to the then current understanding of sculpture as a permanent material construction.'' Unaccessorized, however, it is a simply a sweet, rather banal picture that any number of street photographers around the world might have taken at any point over the last four or five decades.
In the show's most recent video Mr. Alys goes solo again, with a new effectiveness. Shot over the course of a decade, ''Tornado'' has the artist, armed with a camera, chasing dirt devils (not real tornados) in the dry Mexican highlands and, when he can, rushing into their howling midsts. This is a fierce, frightening, beautiful work, but is it really ''a reflection of the present chaotic state of Mexico,'' as the label tells us? It seems more like an abstract, even painterly, cross between something from the Discovery Channel and ''Jackass.'' It also has a kind of intensity that Mr. Alys expresses sparingly in his art and rarely as straightforward personal emotion. Its sheer force underscores the rather rudimentary, almost innocent nature of much of his preceding work -- and makes him seem like even more of a late bloomer than his delayed involvement with art would suggest. He may just be getting started.
Francis Alys: A Story of Deception
WHEN AND WHERE Sunday through Aug. 1, Museum of Modern Art; through Sept. 12, MoMA P.S. 1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens.
MORE INFO (212) 708-9400, moma.org; (718) 784-2084, ps1.org.
IN LONG ISLAND CITY The Creek and the Cave, 10-93 Jackson Avenue, at 49th Avenue, (718) 706-8783, creeklic.com; M. Wells Diner, 21-17 49th Avenue, at 21st Street, (718) 425-6917, mwellsdiner.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A painting from Francis Als's ''Deja Vu'' series, at MoMA P.S. 1, and part of a show of his work, ''A Story of Deception.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZWIRNER GALLERY) (C27)
In ''When Faith Moves Mountains'' (2002) Mr. Alys documents 500 people on a sand dune in Peru. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF MODERN ART)
The toylike items in ''The Collector'' (1991-2006) are made from metal containers. Mr. Alys says they are meant to be moved. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A frame from Francis Alys's video ''Guards'' (2004-5), in which men march through London and converge to form a human geometry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZWIRNER GALLERY) (C30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITY LIFE (70%); WALKING & JOGGING (69%); ARRESTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



162 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
SENTENCING IN EGYPT
SETS TONE FOR FUTURE TRIALS
An Egyptian court sentenced the country's former interior minister, Habib el-Adly, to 12 years in prison and fined him about $4 million, setting a template for a series of high-profile corruption trials of senior figures in the government of the ousted president, Hosni Mubarak, that could include Mr. Mubarak himself. Page A10
ASSETS COULD GO TO REBELS 
The United States announced that it would try to release some of the more than $30 billion in assets seized from Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, as international officials said they would create a fund to give money directly to the Libyan rebels. Page A9
National
CHARGES AGAINST 6 STUDENTS
SETTLED IN BULLYING CASE
The criminal charges against six students in the bullying of a 15-year-old girl in South Hadley, Mass., who hanged herself last year, were largely resolved when the remaining three former students still facing charges were placed on probation and a statutory rape charge against another was dropped. Page A19
FLORIDA PASSES VOTER BILL
With an eye on next year's presidential election, the Florida Legislature passed a bill that would tighten the rules on third-party voter registration and limit the number of days early voting can take place, an effort that Democrats portrayed as blatant voter suppression. Page A20
New York
FIREFIGHTER RECOUNTS HORROR
OF DEUTSCHE BANK BLAZE
A New York City firefighter detailed the events that led to the death of two colleagues during the manslaughter trial for a fire at the former Deutsche Bank building, providing the trial with its most emotional and spine-chilling account of what went on inside the burning building four summers ago. Page 21
CLINTON BACKS SAME-SEX BILL
In a statement released by the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights group, former President Bill Clinton called on New York State lawmakers to pass a measure allowing gay couples to wed. Page A23
Business
APRIL RISE IN RETAIL SALES
COMES WITH HINT OF CONCERN
Sales at stores open at least a year increased 8.9 percent on average in April, topping analyst expectations of 8.2 percent, according to Thomson Reuters' tracking of 25 retailers. Still, retailers raised concerns over the rising price of gasoline, as higher gas prices tend to affect traffic at stores. Page B1
PORTUGAL PREDICTS RECESSION
The bailout negotiated for Portugal should give it enough breathing space to overhaul its economy before having to return to the bond market, the country's financial rescuers said. But even as the terms were being outlined, the challenge facing the country became more stark, with the government forecasting two years of deep recession ahead. Page B4
Sports
THE HITTING STREAK IS STILL ON
EVEN AFTER A DAY OFF
Andre Ethier is more than halfway to Joe DiMaggio's record 56-game hitting streak, although he may now have an asterisk attached to his pursuit. Los Angeles Dodgers Manager Don Mattingly scratched Ethier from Wednesday's game against the Chicago Cubs because of elbow inflammation, leaving the outfielder's streak intact but raising an interesting question: Is Ethier chasing the same record now that he sat out a game? Page B11
JACKSON STICKS TO HIS PLAN
Phil Jackson remains intent on retiring from coaching the Los Angeles Lakers at the end of this season, even if the ending for the book he plans to write about the season is not Hollywood-perfect. The Lakers currently trail the Dallas Mavericks, two games to none, in the second round of the N.B.A. playoffs, and no team has ever rallied from a 3-0 deficit. Page B15
Weekend
WHEN COMMERCIALIZATION
WINS OUT OVER IMAGINATION
The kind-of-O.K. aspects of ''Thor'' have the effect of making the film more depressing, rather than less, writes A.O. Scott. The movie cannot be an interesting, appalling train wreck because it lacks the spoiled grandeur of ambition gone off the rails; director Kenneth Branagh has not failed to make an interesting and emotionally satisfying superhero movie, because there is no evidence that he ever intended to make any such thing. Page C1
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A27
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (85%); RECESSION (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); PROBATION (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (73%); BONDS (72%); ELECTION LAW (72%); SAME STORE SALES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); BULLYING (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (62%); LGBT RIGHTS (62%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (61%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); ASSET FORFEITURE (57%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); HOSNI MUBARAK (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



163 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: California, Here They Come: Tips for the Royal Newlyweds

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- It is, in many ways, a match made in heaven: California and the royal newlyweds.
The news on Thursday that the just-married Duke and Duchess of Cambridge -- Will and Kate, for those of you in the supermarket check-out line -- would vacation in California this summer was no doubt exciting for residents, and tourism officials, up and down the state. But really, it should not be a surprise. The royals, after all, have all kinds of things in common with many of California's commoners, including a love of the outdoors, an adventurous, fun-loving spirit and a fondness for convertibles.
Moreover, California's sporty ethos should please the couple. According to his Web site, the duke, after all, is a ''keen sportsman,'' who excelled in several sports at school, showing himself to be ''a stylish swimmer, a useful footballer and basketball player, good at clay pigeon shooting.'' 
The duchess, meanwhile, is also ''keen'' on sports and lists a variety of favorite activities, including tennis, sailing, swimming, and something called ''hill walking,'' which could conceivably come in handy in San Francisco.
And while California might have an unemployment rate of more than 12 percent and a $26.5 billion budget deficit, the state still has plenty of tourist attractions for a young couple. (The duchess has never visited the United States, though her husband has.)
But wherever will they go? Here are three possible options for anyone with three days -- and a bottomless expense account -- to burn.
THE BAY Residents of San Francisco, whose foggy summertime weather often resembles that of the Scottish moors, would be absolutely thrilled with a state visit, said Laurie Armstrong, the director of media relations for San Francisco Travel, the city's tourism bureau.
''It would still like be a honeymoon,'' Ms. Armstrong said, reeling off a list of the city's cultural gems, including the ballet, symphony and the satirical musical revue, ''Beach Blanket Babylon,'' which William's father, Prince Charles, caught a few years back. ''We'd show them a grand time.''
Indeed, the city by the bay has more than a few sights, including the Golden Gate Bridge (which is longer than the Tower Bridge); the Coit Tower (which is taller than the Tower of London); and the Palace of Fine Arts (which is, admittedly, not quite as impressive as Buckingham Palace).
The timing of the duke and duchess's trip -- July 8 through 10 -- also corresponds with a homestand for the San Francisco Giants, the world champions of a cricketlike game called baseball, which, unlike cricket, generally does not take several days to conclude.
And the duke and duchess could stop into Napa or Sonoma Counties, north of the city, for a wine tasting. Rory Q. Lynch, the director of finance and export sales for the Terra Valentine Winery in St. Helena, said he would recommend a cabernet, and, of course, a driver.
''That's definitely the way to go,'' Mr. Lynch said.
THE HILLS The Hollywood Hills, that is. What with Kate Middleton's movie-star looks and her husband's toothy smile, the duke and duchess would fit right into a city that has always had a soft spot for royalty (see Princess Grace, Lady Di, King of Pop).
And the British apparently love Los Angeles, too; they are the second largest group of foreign visitors to the city, according to Michael S. McDowell, senior director of cultural tourism for LA Inc., the city's convention and visitors agency. (Australians were No. 1.)
What's the appeal?
''We have it all over London in terms of sun,'' Mr. McDowell said. ''I can't think of any reason you wouldn't want to come to L.A.'' (Um, traffic?)
So deep is the love that the city is currently hosting its annual BritWeek festival, which celebrates ''British contributions to California.'' Those, according to the festival's Web site, would seem to include fashion, music and, of course, the Beckhams.
THE VALLEY Nothing says ''vacation'' like Fresno in July. If the royal couple truly wanted to tickle the commoners, they could consider swinging through the Central Valley, California's 400-mile-long agricultural engine.
Melanie Coventry, community relations manager at the Fresno-Clovis Convention and Visitors Bureau, says Fresno's biggest draw is where it sits: within a short drive of three national parks, including Yosemite, where the duchess's hill-walking skills could be put to the test on El Capitan and Half Dome, two of the park's famed climbing rocks.
''We have some amazing things that have international appeal that would be fun to introduce them to,'' said Ms. Coventry, who was born to English parents and is still in possession of a faint British accent. ''And I'd be thrilled to see them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Hollywood Hills would be a welcoming spot for a royal visit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON RYAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Prince Charles, top left, and his wife, Camilla, second from right, in San Francisco at ''Beach Blanket Babylon'' in 2005. While Los Angeles traffic is a drawback, the Napa Valley's wine country is a definite draw. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUTERS/CHRIS STEWART /THE CHRONICLE
JONATHAN ALCORN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (89%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); TENNIS (78%); SPORTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); TOURISM (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (71%); BASKETBALL (68%); BUDGETS (65%); CITY LIFE (62%); BASEBALL (56%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (51%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: CATHERINE, DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE (88%); PRINCE WILLIAM (73%); PRINCE CHARLES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



164 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Foes Revise Plan to Curb New Agency

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After losing a contentious battle last year over creating an agency to protect consumers against deceptive financial products, Republicans are fighting the battle again, determined to rein in the independence and financing of the agency.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been one of Washington's drawn-out passion plays, featuring bankers and finance companies that want to undermine the agency and have villainized Elizabeth Warren, the hard-edged Harvard law professor President Obama picked to start it.
Ms. Warren has characterized the fight as one in which opponents are trying to stick ''a knife in the ribs of the agency.'' In a recent interview, she said, ''the fight has now shifted. It didn't stop, it just moved from being a fight out in the headlines, out in the middle of the street, to a fight in the back alleys.''
But on Thursday, the fight returned to the open as 44 Senate Republicans sent a letter to Mr. Obama saying they ''will not support the consideration of any nominee, regardless of party affiliation, ''to direct the bureau until the agency is restructured. 
With 44 of 47 Republican senators digging in against the bureau, Democrats would be unable to gather the 60 votes necessary to end a filibuster and bring a vote on a nominee for director of the agency. That leaves the president with the option of a recess appointment, a move that would anger legislators whose support the president is likely to need to tackle other issues, like cutting the deficit and raising the debt ceiling.
Already, three bills are pending in the House of Representatives to alter the agency's charter, making it easier for other regulators to overturn the bureau's rules and replacing its director with a five-person commission.
''This is about accountability,'' said Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, the ranking Republican member of the Senate Banking Committee. ''The bureau, as currently structured, lacks any semblance of the checks and balances inherent in the Constitution. Everyone supports consumer protection, but we should never entrust a single person with this much power and public money.''
The White House defended the agency's structure, saying it provided ''the strongest consumer protections in history.''
''The consumer agency's sole mission is to protect American families and provide the tools they need to make smart financial decisions,'' said Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman. ''For far too long, American consumers have fallen victim to fraud, misleading claims and powerful special interests, and the president believes that American families who were the hardest hit by this financial crisis deserve an independent watchdog to protect consumers and prevent predatory lending and other abuses in the future. ''
While the rhetoric surrounding the fight over the consumer bureau has recently focused on its structure, behind the scenes it has been as much about Ms. Warren, who was widely believed to be unable to pass confirmation in the Senate last year. As an alternative, Mr. Obama appointed Ms. Warren last September as a special adviser to oversee the ''standing up'' of the agency, and she has hired officials who will carry out the regulation of mortgageloans, credit cards, payday lenders and other sellers of financial products.
But until the bureau has a formal director, it cannot write rules governing consumer finance or begin overseeing previously unregulated agencies like payday lenders.
In some ways, Ms. Warren's own celebrity might be getting in the way of that effort. She is a dynamic public speaker who has for years championed the right of the middle class to receive plain-English explanations of often-complex financial products. But that effort has drawn criticism from some bankers, who feel she has unfairly accused them of exploiting consumers.
Several candidates for director of the bureau have reportedly turned down the opportunity, with at least one saying that she thought Ms. Warren should get the job. As the delay in selecting a nominee has lengthened, supporters of Ms. Warren have characterized her nomination as inevitable.
''There's no doubt that the fact she's there has made it more complicated to recruit a director,'' said an Obama administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity and who was not authorized to discuss the search process. ''She's done a terrific job attracting talent to the agency,'' the official said. But recent efforts by supporters to portray her as the putative nominee are proving ''mildly counterproductive,'' the official said.
Ms. Warren herself has deflected speculation about her taking the job, saying it is for the president to decide.
For much of the last few weeks, Ms. Warren has been speaking publicly about what she calls attacks on the consumer agency. ''Every day, somebody's got a plan to undercut this agency, to knock it down,'' she said. ''The conversation is effectively: 'Oh, we'd really like to kill this thing but it might be too popular for that -- that might cause too much blowback. So can we find a way to maim it?' ''
Republicans have complained that the bureau, which is to be housed in the Federal Reserve and whose budget is independent of Congressional oversight, has broad powers but does not have to answer to anyone. Republican opponents say they are simply trying to ensure that the agency does not interfere with other regulators that look after the safety and soundness of banks and financial institutions.
The Senate group urged the establishment of a board of directors to oversee the bureau, and a House bill similarly calls for the establishment of a five-member commission. A board structure would be similar to the Federal Reserve, the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation -- agencies whose consumer oversight will be shifted to the new consumer bureau on July 21, a year after President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank bank regulation act into law.
Legislators also have called for the consumer bureau to be subject to the Congressional appropriations process. As established, its budget is set as a percentage of the Federal Reserve's budget and is not subject to approval by Congress.
Consumer groups responded angrily Thursday to the Republican letter. ''It's sort of breathtaking,'' said Lisa Donner, executive director of Americans for Financial Reform, which lobbied for the creation of the consumer bureau. ''They're saying, 'We're not O.K. with an effective consumer bureau.' ''
In spite of the continued resistance, Ms. Warren is moving ahead with efforts to begin the consumer agency's work. Later this month, it is to begin circulating drafts of new consumer mortgage forms that combine two complicated documents that consumers are required to receive as part of a home purchase into a single form that the agency hopes will be easier for homebuyers to understand.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Richard Shelby, a Republican, said the consumer bureau lacked ''checks and balances.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASTRID RIECKEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); DEBT CEILING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (76%); PREDATORY LENDING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (58%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); RICHARD SHELBY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



165 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Older Workers Without Jobs Face Longest Time Out of Work

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Older workers are less likely to be unemployed, but once they lose their jobs, their chances of finding re-employment are nearly microscopic. 

 BODY:
After reaching record highs month after month, the typical length of time a jobless worker in the United States has been unemployed finally fell in April, to "only" 38.3 weeks. But the outlook is looking bleaker for the nation's older workers.
Sure, older workers are much less likely to be unemployed than their younger counterparts. Here's a look at unemployment rates by age:
As you can see, the older you are, the less likely you are to be unemployed. The unemployment rate for people over age 65 is about 6.5 percent, taken on a 12-month moving average. The unemployment rate for teenagers is nearly four times that.
But if older workers do lose their jobs, their chances of finding another job are extraordinarily low. Here's a look at the average duration of unemployment (on a 12-month moving average), broken down by age of the unemployed:
The average jobless person over age 65 has been looking for work for 43.9 weeks. For someone between the ages of 55 and 64, the typical duration is 44.6 weeks, just a few weeks shy of a year. The average unemployment spells for both of these groups are at record highs.
The average teenager, on the other hand, has been looking for less than half that time, at 19.9 weeks.
Why are older workers more likely to be stuck in a seemingly eternal jobless limbo?
Some of it has to do with the fact that younger workers are more likely to drop out of the labor force entirely if they are unable to find a job after weeks of searching. Some young workers may go back to school, and some may move in with their parents. Wherever they end up, if they've dropped out of the labor force, they're no longer technically counted as unemployed.
Additionally, older workers are more likely to have been laid off from industries in structural decline. Before the Great Recession, these industries -- like manufacturing and newspapers -- had probably been trying to shrink through attrition, meaning that they hired fewer young people to replace retiring workers, meaning offices and factories got gradually older. As the economy soured, these employers started resorting to more layoffs.
Now their former employees are structurally displaced, and probably less likely to go back to school for retraining or to move across the country where the job market may be better. After all, older workers are more likely to own their own homes, and so are less mobile.
Finally there is the possibility of age discrimination. Nearly every out-of-work American over the age of 45 I've spoken with has complained that prejudice is keeping him or her from getting a job.
Age discrimination is hard to prove, especially since employers are unlikely to inform applicants that age factored into the hiring decision. (Plus, as I've mentioned before, young people -- and whites, blacks, Asians, Hispanics, women and men -- also all seem to think that prejudice explains why they're out of work.)
In any case these long durations of unemployment for older workers are particularly troubling, since the longer workers are out of the work the less employable they become. Lengthening spells of joblessness therefore do not bode well for the country's ability to ever get displaced older workers back into gainful employment.
When we talk about the scarring effect of unemployment, we're usually referring to the scars on young people's careers. But there is also much to worry about the permanent damage that joblessness can wreak on older workers, many of whom feel they're being summarily kicked out of the labor force.

        
How Many Jobs Should We Be Adding Each Month?
        
Comparing Recoveries: Job Changes
        
For Older Workers, a Longer Job Search
        
5 Answers from the Jobs Report
        
A Chart to Explain Confusion on Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%) age; April 2011 jobs report; Discrimination; Elderly; employment; structural unemployment; Unemployment; Age, Chronological; Labor and Jobs

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



166 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: How Many Jobs Should We Be Adding Each Month?

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The short answer is: as many as possible. The longer answer is: It depends on how quickly you think Baby Boomers are retiring. 

 BODY:
How many more jobs does the country need to get back to full employment? The short answer: as many as possible. The longer answer: It depends on how quickly you think Baby Boomers are retiring.
There are 6,955,000 fewer nonfarm payroll jobs today than there were when the recession officially began in December 2007. If the pace of job growth from April (244,000 jobs added) continues each month going forward, it will take 29 months before we have the same number of jobs as we had when the recession began.
And we should have more jobs than we had before the recession began. After all, the population is growing, and more and more Americans reach working age each month.
Exactly how quickly the size of the labor force is growing, or will continue to grow, is a matter of some debate, however.
Right now the labor force participation rate -- that is, the share of people over age 16 who are either in a job or actively looking for one -- is at 64.2 percent, where it has been stuck for four months. That is unusually low:
In fact, it's the lowest overall participation rate since 1984, when a smaller share of women were actively involved in the labor force. The number becomes more startling when you look just at men's labor force participation rates over the years. As you can see, men currently have their lowest labor force participation rate since the Labor Department began keeping track since 1948:
One reason that participation rates are so low is that many working-age Americans have given up looking for work because the job market is so poor. Some of them have gone on disability, which is likely to discourage them from ever rejoining the work force, and some are just waiting until the job market starts to look more promising.
Note, though, that labor force participation rates have been dropping even before the recession began in late 2007. The main explanation for why this is has to do with the changing demographics of the American population.
America, like many other developed countries, is getting older. Older people are less likely to be involved in the labor force, since many are easing into retirement. The Labor Department doesn't use an upper-limit age cap when calculating the the labor force participation rate -- it refers only to what share of people over age 16 are in the labor force -- so government figures don't adjust for the aging effect.
To be sure, many of the those in the baby-boom generation have had to delay retirement, since the nest eggs they call "houses" have turned out to be worth much less than believed a few years ago. But even so, many workers are retiring, offsetting the number of young workers newly entering the labor force.
That means on net that the labor force probably will not grow as quickly as it did in years past, and so fewer payroll jobs are needed to absorb new entrants to the labor force each month. Typically the figure economists cite as the minimum number of additional jobs needed to keep the unemployment rate flat is about 150,000 to 200,000.
But economists at Barclays Capital, who have been analyzing how the graying of America may affect employment trends, estimate that going forward 75,000 to 100,000 jobs added per month may be sufficient.
The bottom line is that the path back to full employment is going to be long and scary no matter what. But if you think Boomers are leaving the job market relatively quickly, that slog starts to look a little less painful.

        
Comparing Recoveries: Job Changes
        
A Chart to Explain Confusion on Jobs
        
5 Questions About Friday's Jobs Report
        
Job Openings on the Rise
        
The Burden of Supporting the Elderly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); BABY BOOMERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); TRENDS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); AGING (65%) April 2011 jobs report; Elderly; employment; generational accounting; jobs; labor force participation rates; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



167 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Big Deal | Hudson St. Penthouse Back on the Market

BYLINE: MARC SANTORA


HIGHLIGHT: The most expensive apartment ever sold in the city south of Columbus Circle is going up for sale, looking to break records again with an asking price of $45 million. 

 BODY:
New York City can seem like a mighty unpleasant place if you're trying to get into or out of the Holland Tunnel.
The horns, the gridlock and the crush of cars competing for fewer and fewer lanes - it is easy to wonder who would live amid such madness in the northern reaches of TriBeCa. What misery it must be for those poor apartment dwellers.
Well, not exactly poor.
High above Hudson Street, the most expensive apartment ever sold south of Columbus Circle when it went for $30.5 million in 2009 is going back on the market, looking to break records again with an asking price of $45 million.
The duplex penthouse atop the 14-story Art Deco former industrial building at 145 Hudson Street feels as if it were not in the same universe as the clogged streets below.
It is a glass box in the sky, with panoramic views. Designed by the architect James Carpenter, who is known for his work with glass structures, it has nearly 7,500 square feet of interior space and 4,500 square feet of outdoor space on a wraparound terrace. There are two stairways and three fireplaces, and customized millwork in plain-sawn cherry wood throughout. 
As one might expect at such a high price point, there are unusual features like a climate-control system, self-adjusting lighting, and walls that allow artwork to be hung without fear of damage from sunlight.
The current owner allowed a tour on the condition that he not be identified and that no photos be taken of his extensive art collection, which made full use of the specially designed walls.
"Everything is customized to the nth degree," said Leonard Steinberg, a managing director of Prudential Douglas Elliman, the broker handling the sale.
The apartment has an open and modern aesthetic, with polished concrete complementing all the glass. On the main floor, insulated glass panel dividers can either be closed to create more intimate spaces, or opened, to create a larger one.
Mr. Steinberg said that while the penthouse had a modern feel, the terrace reflected the building's Art Deco origins, with restored parapets that provide both architectural detail and a sense of privacy not found in any other penthouse in the area.
In fact, this was the second go at creating a penthouse at this property. The original design and construction ran into trouble after the Landmarks Preservation Commission found that it was not appropriate for the neighborhood.
For years, enraged residents were unable to move into their apartments because the commission's decision kept the building - known as Skylofts - from getting its certificate of occupancy. In 2005, the developers were forced to tear down the original penthouse. Mr. Steinberg said that after this episode, they decided to up the ante, creating the current duplex penthouse in its place.
Looking out at the traffic circle around Hudson Square, rendered mute by the thick glass walls, Mr. Steinberg said that although the tunnel might evoke thoughts of aggravation, the traffic was in reality worse in other areas.
"It is probably 20 percent of the traffic at Fifth Avenue and 75th Street," he said.
When the fashion photographer Antoine Verglas bought his apartment at 169 Hudson in 2001, he viewed the tunnel with some trepidation.
But, after years of living and working out of his 4,400-square-foot loft, which sold late last month for $5.2 million, it was hardly noticeable, he said.
"When I was looking for a new space, I looked at where I thought real estate could get more value in the future," Mr. Verglas said, noting that he had made several other real estate investments in the city over the years. "I was a little bit concerned about the traffic. But it is really only Thursday and Friday evening when it is a bit congested."
He said congestion on the streets around his new studio on Wooster Street was about the same, noting, "There is traffic everywhere."
In fact, although the real estate values in TriBeCa began their rapid ascent in the 1990s, the northern stretches of the neighborhood, especially the streets surrounding the tunnel, took a bit longer to catch on with wealthy buyers.
Mr. Verglas bought the Hudson Street apartment, which then was just raw space, for $1.3 million. He recalled that when he first moved in, the area retained some of the grittiness that one might expect in an area that until a decade or two ago was more known for exhaust fumes than luxury properties.
But soon after he arrived, he said, other celebrities were also drawn to the property, including the rapperSean Combs. Mr. Verglas designed his apartment as a three-bedroom space, but also maximized its potential as a photo studio, including a translucent bathtub that he said felt something like a swimming pool - a useful amenity when your clients include Sports Illustrated swimsuit models.
He was not thinking about selling until his broker, Richard Orenstein of Halstead Property, suggested that he could find a buyer, especially because there were so few luxury apartments on the market at the moment.
Mr. Verglas decided to take his advice. But he will miss the neighborhood around the tunnel.
"In reality," he said, "TriBeCa is pretty quiet at night. You sleep extremely well." 

        
Big Deal | Top Hamptons Sales Regained Traction
        
Big Deal | Buy One, Get One (Sort Of)
        
Big Deal | Norman Mailer Apartment for Sale
        
Big Deal | Paying Extra to Smell the Flowers
        
Big Deal | The White Gloves Are Off

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (69%); HISTORIC SITES (60%) Big Deal; real estate; TriBeCa; Housing and Real Estate; TriBeCa (NYC); Buildings and Landmarks; Housing & Economy; Manhattan

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) TriBeCa (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



168 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Survey Suggests Employment Prospects for Arts Graduates Are About the Same as for Others

BYLINE: PATRICIA COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: According to an online survey, 92 percent who want to work are doing so. 

 BODY:
Prospective students who are wondering whether to major in business or art in this harsh economic climate might want to take a look at a survey of arts graduates. The Strategic National Arts Alumni Project based at Indiana University, which tracks the lives and careers of arts graduates, has recently released one. The results of the 2010 online survey include responses from more than 13,500 students who were in fine arts, theater, dance, music, creative writing, media arts, film, design and architecture programs and graduated in the past 15 or so years from 154 arts high schools, undergraduate and graduate institutions.
Although the respondents did not represent a random sample, the survey found that 92 percent of alumni who want to work are doing so (the unemployment rate for April in the United States was 9 percent), while two-thirds said their first job was a close match for the kind of work they desired. Fifty-seven percent are working as professional artists, but don't be surprised if your bedroom doubles as your office. More than 6 in 10 were self-employed since graduation. Working or not, 9 out of 10 reported they were pleased with their art training, and three out of four would attend the same institution again.
About 30 percent of former professional or aspiring artists went into another career because of their school loans and other debts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); DANCE (72%); MUSIC (56%) Arts Education; Art; Colleges and Universities; Culture (Arts); Education (K-12); Indiana University; art & design; arts general

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (91%) Indiana University

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



169 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Comparing Recoveries: Job Changes

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A look at how far the U.S. economy has to go before it fully recovers from the Great Recession. 

 BODY:
The United States added 244,000 nonfarm payroll jobs on net in April, the Labor Department reported today, up from a gain of 221,000 jobs in March. The April employment number showed the fastest growth since last spring, when the federal government was adding hundreds of thousands of temporary jobs for the decennial census.
Nearly every sector added jobs last month. Some of the biggest gains were in retail, professional and business services, leisure and hospitality, and manufacturing. The losers were state and local governments, which have been struggling with budget issues. They are expected to continue shedding workers in months to come.
Even most of the winners, though, have a long way to go before returning to their prerecession levels, if they ever do.
The chart above shows economy-wide job changes in this last recession and recovery compared with other recent ones, with the black line representing the current downturn. Since the downturn began in December 2007, the economy has shed, on net, about 5 percent of its nonfarm payroll jobs. And that does not even account for the fact that the working-age population has continued to grow, meaning that if the economy were healthy we should have more jobs today than we had before the recession.
The unemployment rate -- measured by a different government survey, and based on how many people are without jobs but are actively looking for work -- ticked up to 9 percent in April, from 8.8 percent in March. My colleague David Leonhardt explained in an earlier post how these two surveys have shown divergent trends in recent months.

        
Comparing Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Comparing Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Comparing This Recession to Previous Ones: Job Changes
        
Comparing This Recession to Previous Ones: Job Changes
        
Comparing This Recession to Previous Ones: Job Losses

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); CENSUS (72%) April 2011 jobs report; employment; historical comparisons; jobs; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; Labor Department (US)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



170 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: 5 Answers from the Jobs Report

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The jobs report offers reason for relief. 

 BODY:
Yesterday, I posed five questions about this morning's jobs report. Here are some answers:
1. Has the recent economic slowdown led to a slowdown in job growth?
No, at least not yet, and that's easily the best news in today's report. The economy added 244,000 last month. Over the past three months, it has added an average of 233,000 jobs. If you ignore the temporary Census hiring of 2010, the pace of job creation is the fastest since early 2006, almost two years before the recession began. 
As Joshua Shapiro, an economist at MFR Inc., a research firm in New York, wrote this morning, "The wage and salary income that a labor market recovery, ev`en a subpar one by historical standards, provides to consumers will be key in providing fuel for ongoing economic growth in 2011."
There remain reasons to worry. Above all, recoveries from financial crises are usually slow and uneven. High oil prices and Europe's debt trouble aren't helping matters. The recent rise in initial employment claims -- some of which occurred after the period covered by this monthly jobs report -- is an issue of particular concern. At least through mid-April, though, employers still seemed to be gaining confidence.2. Has the crisis in Japan affected employment in this country?
Not much, it seems. Makers of automobiles and automobile parts added 3,000 jobs last month. That sector seemed most at risk of being affected by the tsunami, given the shortage of parts coming from Japan. But the addition of 3,000 jobs was little different from the recent pace of job growth.
3. Are the cutbacks by local and state governments becoming more severe - or perhaps less so?
The cutbacks continue at roughly the same pace. State and local governments cut 22,000 jobs last month. Over the last six months, the monthly average was 24,000.
4. What does the length of the work week say about business executives' state of mind?
Businesses may be getting more confident, but they are far from wildly optimistic. The average work week in the private sector remained 34.3 hours in April, unchanged over the past three months. If businesses were on the verge of a hiring boom, an increase in the work week would be a leading indicator (given that companies often give their existing employees more work before adding new ones).
Fortunately for workers, average hourly pay did rise last month, by 3 cents, to $22.95. But it's up only 1.9 percent over the past year. Weekly pay is up 2.5 percent. Neither pace is as fast as inflation (2.7 percent, according to the latest numbers).
5. Do the statistical details in the report offer reason for optimism?
Yes and no. The Labor Department did revise its estimate of job growth for February and March in a positive way, saying the economy had added 46,000 more jobs than earlier thought. But as these two previousposts discussed, the rise in unemployment rate suggests that the job market may not have been as healthy as some people hoped.

        
5 Questions About Friday's Jobs Report
        
A Chart to Explain Confusion on Jobs
        
Correcting the Picture on Jobs
        
5 Answers From Today's Jobs Report
        
5 Questions About Today's Jobs Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WORK WEEK (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); TSUNAMIS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%) April 2011 jobs report; automotive industry; Japanese tsunami; jobs report; local governments; state governments; Unemployment; wages; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



171 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Fashion Meets Finance, After the Crisis

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: After a rough few years, the event that mixes Wall Street bachelors with New York's fashionistas is back with a post-crisis sense of charity. 

 BODY:
The crowd at Manhattan's Bar Basque on Thursday night -- shiny-haired men in expensive suits and women in sheath dresses and strappy heels -- could only mean one thing.
Yes, Fashion Meets Finance, the social mixer that introduces New York's fashionistas to well-heeled Wall Street bachelors, is back. 
"It's actually a pretty upscale crowd," said a tanned brunette, as she and a friend made their way past a group of martini-clutching bankers to the open bar, sponsored by Svedka.
It's been a rough few years for Fashion Meets Finance. The event began in 2007 when Beth Newill, a merchandiser for Esprit, decided to hold informal bi-monthly gatherings to introduce her single fashion friends to their high-earning counterparts in finance.
With the help of word-of-mouth marketing and cheeky slogans (one invitation read, "Ladies, you don't need to worry that the cute guy at the bar works in advertising!"), Ms. Newill's gatherings quickly became infamous. One event last year at the Empire Hotel drew more than 1,400 attendees.
But Ms. Newill had to give her parties a face-lift after a wave of bad publicity that accused the event's attendees of blatant money grubbing. Gawker called one 2009 gathering "an event where Manhattan banker-types and fashion slaves meet, consummate, and procreate certain genetics to create lineages of people you'd rather not know."
"In the past, the events had a certain connotation that we are trying to get rid of," event organizers wrote in a press release announcing this year's revival. Fashion Meets Finance has returned as a kinder, gentler form of upper-crust mating ritual. Gone are the slogans, and the requirements that men furnish proof of Wall Street employment and list their salaries upon registration. And it's been replaced with a post-crisis sense of charity. Proceeds from this year's event were given to Indego Africa, a non-profit that sells goods manufactured by female artisans in Rwanda.
"We're still proud of these two industries," Ms. Newill said. "They work well together, and they look great together, and they're very gender-heavy. It's an organic idea."
This year, the open-air balcony space at Bar Basque, a swank venue in Chelsea owned by restaurateur Jeffrey Chodorow, was filled to capacity, with partygoers dancing to Beyonce and nuzzling on white couches as the evening wore on. Of the 800 or so attendees, men outnumbered women only slightly, and among the newly diverse guests were doctors, accountants, and even several female investment bankers. "They should have called it Finance Meets Finance," grumbled one fashion industry type.
Troy Slade, who works for insurance company BWD Group LLC, said he welcomed the relaxed admissions policy.
"I think the whole finance allure, the Gordon Gekko thing, is very 1990s," Mr. Slade said. "The new thing is being a good person, making girls laugh, making people feel comfortable. Money is irrelevant."
Jennifer Brown, a store designer for Limited Brands, said that her goal for the night was simply to meet new people.
"I just wanted to come here because it's something fun and different to do," Ms. Brown said. "We work with all women and gay guys, so why not?"
For some women, though, the diversity of this year's guest list meant having to sift more carefully through potential mates.
"I want the real deal!" said Emily Mastrangelo, who works in product development at a major retailer. "I'm really independent, and I don't want someone who needs to be around me all the time. I want them to work 150 hours a week at Goldman Sachs."
For the men of finance, one question seemed to hang over this year's event: has the stigma of the financial crisis hurt bankers looking for girls?
"Not at all," said one 27-year-old equities trader, who declined to give his name so as not to associate himself or his firm with Fashion Meets Finance. "Most of these girls don't even know what happened in 2008. It's like, oh, subprime mortgages? They just nod their heads."
Mike Maras, a portfolio manager who worked at Lehman Brothers before the bankruptcy, said that he had even managed to capitalize on his firm's crisis-era misfortune.
"I break a lot of ice with the Lehman thing," Mr. Maras said. "Women love my story."

        
The F.D.I.C.'s Lehman Fantasy
        
The Feds Stage a Sideshow, While the Big Tent Sits Empty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CHARITIES (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%) Esprit; Fashion Meets Finance; Financial Crisis; Lehman Brothers; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1; Video

COMPANY: EMPIRE HOTEL (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%)

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); RWANDA (74%); AFRICA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



172 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Podcast: Jobs, Economics and a Retail Makeover

BYLINE: JEFF SOMMER


HIGHLIGHT: A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen. 

 BODY:
After the economic slowdown that showed up in the data for first-quarter G.D.P., Friday's Labor Department report on jobs and unemployment was nervously awaited. 
It wasn't great news, but it was better than many economists had expected.
Motoko Rich covered the story for The Times, and she says in the Weekend Business podcast that the total number of jobs created in April - 244,000, up from 211,000 in March - suggests that the United States economy is clearly growing, even if at a modest pace. (It grew at only a 1.8 percent in the first quarter, according to the G.D.P. report.)
In April, the unemployment rate moved back up to 9 percent - a painfully high level - from 8.8 percent, and a much faster pace of hiring will be needed to bring the rate down significantly. It's quite possible that the American economy's growth was impeded by what Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, has called "transitory" factors, like the supply-chain problems caused by the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster in Japan. In that case, Ms. Rich says, there may be faster growth in the United States later in the year. 
Still, the economy has a long way to go before it is fully healed from the wounds inflicted in the financial crisis. How long will it take? In a separate conversation, Gregory S. Mankiw, the Harvard economist, confesses that he doesn't know. In fact, he says, after many years of study, there is much he doesn't understand about the economy - and that much in his field remains murky. In the Economic View column in Sunday Business, he elaborates on some of the current economic questions for which he sees no clear answers. In another podcast discussion, David Gillen and Stephanie Clifford chat about the efforts of Richard A. Baker to refurbish Lord & Taylor and the Hudson's Bay Company, two of North America's grandest retail operations. That is also the subject of a Sunday Business article by Ms. Clifford and Peter Lattman.
Also on the podcast, Gretchen Morgenson talks about Wal-Mart's executive pay - the focus of her Sunday Business column. The company's same-store sales have been lagging - and it has removed same-store sales as a criterion for compensation. 
You can find specific segments of the podcast at these junctures: the employment picture (30:24); news headlines (23:42); changes at Lord & Taylor (20:15); Wal-Mart executive pay (14:11); Gregory Mankiw (8:35); the week ahead (2:21).
As articles discussed in the podcast are published during the weekend, links will be added to this posting.
You can download the program by subscribing from The New York Times's podcast page or directly from iTunes.

        
Podcast: The Fed, Law Schools and Black Swans
        
Podcast: Credit Ratings, Ponzi Schemes and Data
        
Podcast: Good Euros, Bad Euros and Market Worries
        
Podcast: Stimulus, Shutdown and Executive Pay
        
Podcast: Jobs, Wages and Middle-Class Costs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); PODCASTING (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); TSUNAMIS (71%); EARTHQUAKES (52%) podcast; Weekend Business; Mankiw, N Gregory; Economic Conditions and Trends; Economics; Executive Compensation; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; Hudson's Bay Co; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Wal-Mart Stores Inc|WMT|NYSE

COMPANY: HUDSON'S BAY CO (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Hudson's Bay Co; Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: HBC (TSX) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (52%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; WMT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Mankiw, N Gregory

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



173 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: House Republicans Express Unity on Budget

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: A joint statement on Friday is meant to take the party beyond a series of mixed messages on budget issues this week. 

 BODY:
After a series of mixed messages on budget issues this week, House Republicans on Friday issued a statement expressing their unity on the House-passed budget plan as they engage in debt-limit talks with Congressional Democrats and the White House.
"We are committed to our budget and to making the reforms necessary to grow our economy and create jobs, preserve and strengthen Medicare, and put our nation on a path to pay down the debt," said the statement from Speaker John A. Boehner, three other party leaders and the chairmen of three key committees.
The announcement followed statements from senior lawmakers that suggested Republicans were lowering their sights in the debt talks that began Thursday and did not intend to move forward any time soon on legislation to enact a Medicare overhaul. The Medicare overhaul has come under assault from Democrats in recent days and those developments have sparked a flurry of news stories about Republicans' rethinking their Medicare plan. 
At the same time, Mr. Boehner said that while the party was not shifting its position, the "political realities'' of divided government did not work to the advantage of the party's Medicare proposal. 
The Medicare stance took some members of the Republican rank-and-file by surprise and Friday's statement was probably meant as a way to assure lawmakers and party allies that all members of the leadership team were back on the same page.
"House Republicans are united in our approach to achieve real and immediate spending cuts and reforms today," the statement said. 
But that doesn't mean they will insist on the most contentious parts of their agenda. 
Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who chairs the Ways and Means Committee and who was part of the unity statement, said this week he did not intend to advance the Medicare proposal through his committee given Democrats' resistance. 
Other top Republicans have acknowledged they are very unlikely to use the debt talks to push the Medicare plan, which would convert the popular program from one where the government is the insurer to a program where the government subsidizes retirees in private insurance plans. 
Democrats said the decision not to pursue what they consider privatization could allow the two parties to agree on other changes in Medicare.

        
Chairman of House Tax Committee Backs Off Medicare Plan
        
Christie Accuses Washington of Ignoring Fiscal Crisis
        
The Hill: Taxes Hamper Budget Talks
        
Bush Stays True to Self in Budget
        
Health Care Versus the Budget

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); POLITICS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) budget; House Republicans; Medicare; Boehner, John A; Camp, David L; Budgets and Budgeting; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Congress

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (90%); DAVE CAMP (78%) Boehner, John A; Camp, David L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



174 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman Says He Sees an Opening in Race

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Jon M. Huntsman Jr. visited South Carolina, an early primary state, on Friday, and said he detected a craving for new blood in the Republican campaign. 

 BODY:
COLUMBIA, S.C. -- Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the newest potential contender in the Republican presidential nominating contest, paid his first visit to an early primary state on Friday and said that after one week of talking to party activists and donors, he detected a craving for new blood in the campaign.
"There's always room for a new voice," Mr. Huntsman told reporters at the state Capitol here, where he met privately with Gov. Nikki Haley. He added, "To the extent that people are concerned about where we are -- in terms of the economy and our relative position abroad -- absolutely, people are looking for a new set of eyeballs."
Mr. Huntsman, who returned to the United States last week after serving as the ambassador to China for nearly two years under President Obama, opened a three-day trip to South Carolina on Friday. He was surrounded by political advisers and accompanied by his wife, Mary Kaye Huntsman, as he left his session here with the governor. 
Mr. Huntsman is scheduled to deliver a commencement address on Saturday morning at the University of South Carolina College of Arts and Sciences in Columbia. But his itinerary is also filled with appointments with Republican activists and party officials who hold an influential role in the South Carolina presidential primary.
In a brief interview with reporters, he declined to reveal a specific timeline for his decision on whether he will move forward with a presidential campaign. But he added, "Things are moving pretty quickly, and whatever timelines one is looking at can't be more than a couple of months."
Mr. Huntsman, a former governor of Utah, has visited South Carolina before. Two years ago, and only a few months before Mr. Obama nominated him to serve as America's top diplomat to China, he traveled to South Carolina to meet with Republicans. This weekend, he said, he is working to re-establish some of those relationships, which have gone dormant while he has been in Beijing.
He smiled but declined to divulge his plans as he talked to reporters.
"I'm unemployed. I haven't been unemployed in a long time," Mr. Huntsman said. "We're looking at our future and seriously considering our options and taking a good serious look at maintaining some level of activity in public service."

        
The First 2012 Debate Approaches. Or Does it?
        
Haley to G.O.P. Candidates: 'It's Go Time'
        
Republican Debate Notable for No-Shows
        
Why Republicans May Be Skipping 2012 Presidential Run
        
Gingrich Urges Lawmakers Not to Give on 'Core Principles'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%) 2012 presidential campaign; primaries; Republicans; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; South Carolina; Elections

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (55%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (93%); NIKKI HALEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



175 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Obama Calls for End of Oil Subsidies

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER


HIGHLIGHT: In Indiana on Friday, President Obama visited a company that makes hybrid vehicle transmissions to showcase his administration's commitment to fuel-efficient technologies. 

 BODY:
With gasoline prices still hovering above $4 a gallon, President Obamarenewed his call on Friday to close tax loopholes for large oil companies, declaring, "If you're already paying them at the gas pump, we don't need to pay them through the tax code."
Mr. Obama traveled to Indiana to visit a company that makes hybrid vehicle transmissions to showcase his administration's commitment to fuel-efficient and clean-energy technologies. But he also took aim at the oil industry as the key beneficiary of the nation's ravenous appetite for energy.
Over the last five years, Mr. Obama said, the five largest oil companies each earned between $75 billion and $125 billion. An array of tax breaks for the industry, he said, cost American taxpayers $5 billion annually. The president, calling these loopholes "unwarranted subsidies," said the money should be redirected to investments in clean energy.
Mr. Obama offered a familiar list of incentives to draw people away from gas-guzzling vehicles, including a $75 tax rebate for those who buy electric vehicles. And he reiterated his goal that the federal government's vast fleet of vehicles use fuel-efficient, clean-energy technologies by 2015.
The backdrop for Mr. Obama's message was a high-tech factory owned by Allison Transmissions, a leading manufacturer of heavy-duty automatic transmissions. Before he spoke, Mr. Obama was given a tour, watching as workers installed a clutch in the housing of a hybrid transmission.
Allison plans to add 200 jobs by 2013 - a fact that Mr. Obama noted with satisfaction as he promoted the latest nationwide employment numbers, which showed a gain of 244,000 jobs in April.
Acknowledging that the recovery has not been without its fits and starts, Mr. Obama said, "We are still making progress, and that proves how resilient the American economy is, and how resilient the American worker is."
The president later traveled to Fort Campbell, Ky., to meet with members of the Navy Seals team that killed Osama bin Laden in a raid in Abbottabad, Pakistan. Mr. Obama is also scheduled to speak at a rally of the 101st Airborne Division, much of which is still deployed in Afghanistan.

        
Obama Talks Up Clean-Energy Vehicles
        
Gas Pumps Become Battleground for Obama and Republicans
        
Obama Calls for Repeal of Tax Breaks for Oil Firms
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
In Pa., Obama Pushes Investment in Clean Energy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); ARMED FORCES (61%) barack obama; Clean Energy; oil; tax breaks; Obama, Barack; Fuel Efficiency; Hybrid Vehicles; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



176 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: The Outlook for China's Currency

BYLINE: LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON


HIGHLIGHT: Calls for China to increase the value of its currency against the dollar are misplaced, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Laura D'Andrea Tyson is a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, and served as chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Clinton.
The United States and China will hold their annual strategic and economic dialogue discussions next week in Washington, and the exchange rate between the dollar and the renminbi, China's currency, is again likely to top the agenda.
As they have for years, many members of Congress are urging tough measures that would condemn and penalize China for what they deem to be unfair currency manipulation. Added to the mix this year is some offensive, sophomoric and embarrassing name-calling of the Chinese by Donald Trump.
The demand for tough action by American policy makers fails to recognize that the renminbi has already appreciated significantly relative to the dollar, exaggerates the benefits of a stronger renminbi for the United States and overlooks the benefits of a stronger renminbi for China itself.
Some important facts are obscured by the threatening rhetoric and name-calling. Since last summer, when China returned to its prefinancial-crisis exchange-rate system that allows the renminbi to fluctuate against the dollar within a managed band, the Chinese currency has appreciated about 5 percent relative to the dollar in nominal terms.The pace of appreciation has quickened since the beginning of this year, and at the end of April, the renminbi hit its highest level relative to the dollar since it began trading in 1994.
Measured in real terms, the appreciation of the renminbi has been much larger. The real exchange rate takes account of price movements in both the United States and China. When prices rise faster in China than in the United States, the renminbi appreciates in real terms faster than it appreciates in nominal terms.
With inflation hitting 5 percent annually in China last month, the renminbi has appreciated in real terms by 8 to 9 percent relative to the dollar during the last year. According to calculations by The Economist, since 2005, when China adopted its managed-band system, the renminbi has appreciated about 24 percent in nominal terms and about 50 percent in real terms relative to the dollar.
Despite these changes, the view of the International Monetary Fund, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury and many economists, myself included, is that the renminbi remains undervalued. China's large current-account surpluses and the continued growth in its foreign-exchange reserves are evidence supporting this view.
But recent trends in the evidence are difficult to interpret. China's foreign-exchange reserves have continued to grow, increasing nearly 19 percent in 2010 and surging in the first quarter of this year to more than $3 trillion. However, capital inflows into China in anticipation of further appreciation of the renminbi account for a large share of this increase.
Meanwhile, both China's trade surplus and current-account surplus have fallen significantly, both absolutely and as a share of China's gross domestic product. Indeed, China's current-account surplus as a share of G.D.P. has dropped more than 50 percent since it peaked in 2007, and the results for the first quarter of this year indicate that a further decline is possible, as Chinese authorities predict.
As a result of these conflicting trends, there is considerable uncertainty about the degree to which the renminbi remains undervalued vis a vis the dollar. And there is certainly no justification for demands by some members of Congress that China revalue to some arbitrary target set by the United States or face the imposition of retaliatory tariffs (which would be illegal under World Trade Organization rules).
Moreover, it is likely that the benefits for the American economy of a significant further appreciation of the renminbi relative to the dollar would not be as great as many of its Congressional proponents envision.
Between 2005 and 2008, the renminbi appreciated about 20 percent relative to the dollar in nominal terms, but the United States trade imbalance with China did not decline as anticipated. Instead, it grew nearly a third, and China's share of American imports continued to increase across all major import categories (for more analysis, see by Peter Schott).
The explanation for these surprising results lies in the fact that many American imports from China are products that are assembled in China from components produced in other Asian economies.
China's share of the value-added of such products is only 10 to 30 percent, so a 20 percent appreciation of the renminbi has a much smaller effect on the prices of American imports from China, unless the renminbi appreciation is matched by comparable appreciations in the currencies of the Asian countries supplying components to China. This was not the case between 2005 and 2008 nor has it been the case since the renminbi began to appreciate against the dollar in 2010.
According to a recent I.M.F. analysis, the "integrated effective exchange rate" of the renminbi, which takes account of the exchange-rate movements of the countries supplying components for China's exports, has appreciated much more slowly than the renminbi itself. 
While the renminbi has been appreciating in both nominal and real terms relative to the dollar, the currencies of important suppliers to China, in particular South Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong, have depreciated relative to the dollar and to the currencies of China's other export markets.
Finally, even if there were a significant further appreciation of China's integrated effective exchange rate and even if that caused a significant decline in the United States trade deficit with China, it is highly unlikely that production in the United States would expand to replace imports from China. 
A much more likely outcome is that imports from China would be replaced by imports from other emerging-market nations, with little net effect on production or jobs in the United States. (For more detail, see my testimony and that of Stephen Roach before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee last year.)
During the last several weeks, several Chinese officials, including Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, have indicated that China may accelerate the appreciation of the renminbi and broaden its trading band to accommodate more flexibility later this year.
There are several reasons that it would be in China's interests to do so.
China is struggling to bring inflation under control. The prices of politically sensitive goods, including energy, food and real estate, have surged, setting off wage increases, strikes and rising discontent. According to popular-opinion surveys, rising prices top the public's concerns, and rising prices and lagging wages were triggers of the demonstrations in Tiananmen Square in 1989.
China has increased interest rates several times in rapid succession in an attempt to slow its overheated economy and reduce inflationary pressures, but its efforts have met with limited success.
Meanwhile, the decline in the dollar's value to near-record lows in recent weeks has dragged the renminbi down and aggravated China's inflation problems. An appreciation of the renminbi vis a vis the dollar would help China combat imported inflation, especially for oil and commodities whose world prices are denominated in dollars.
An appreciation would also ease the developing asset bubble in China's real estate markets by reducing the incentives for Chinese and foreign investors to buy Chinese property as a way to speculate on the future value of the renminbi.
China has also just released an ambitious new five-year plan calling for a fundamental shift in China's growth strategy from reliance on exports and investment to reliance on consumption. (For a detailed assessment, see Mr. Roach's "China's 12th Five-Year Plan.")
Further appreciation of the renminbi would help China achieve these goals by bolstering the purchasing power of Chinese consumers and by encouraging Chinese producers to shift production away from manufactured products for export to goods and services for domestic markets.
A stronger renminbi with greater flexibility in response to changing global conditions would serve the interests of both the United States and China. This should be the premise of the strategic and economic discussions on the exchange rate next week.
There is no need and no place for threats or name-calling.

        
When Did the Trade Deficit Start Falling?
        
Who Cares About Inflation?
        
The Logic of Cutting Corporate Taxes
        
Economic Blind Spots, Left and Right
        
One Company's Struggles in China

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TRENDS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%) Chinese economy; Currency; Daily Economist; international trade; Laura D'Andrea Tyson; manufacturing; prices; renminbi; trade; International Trade and World Market; Renminbi (Currency); China

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (84%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) China

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



177 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: A Titan Under a Microscope

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Steven A. Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital Advisors, has never been charged with illegal trading, but two managers and some former traders at the firm have. 

 BODY:
Steven A. Cohen, the once-secretive billionaire hedge fund manager, is suddenly everywhere.
On Monday, Mr. Cohen and his wife attended the Metropolitan Museum of Art's annual Costume Institute gala, where they rubbed elbows with the rock star Mick Jagger and the quarterback Tom Brady. On Wednesday, he is scheduled to speak, before former President George W. Bush, at a prominent hedge fund conference in Las Vegas. Earlier this year, he made his first trip to Davos, Switzerland, for the World Economic Forum, where he could be seen dancing the night away at a private party.
And Mr. Cohen is bidding to buy a large stake in the New York Mets from the team's owners.
 Behind the scenes, life has not been nearly so fun. 
Federal prosecutors are examining trades made in an account run by Mr. Cohen at SAC Capital Advisors, his hedge fund in Stamford, Conn., that manages about $12 billion, according to a government filing. The trades were suggested by two SAC portfolio managers who have pleaded guilty to insider trading-related crimes. The charges are part of a vast investigation into insider trading at hedge funds by the United States attorney in Manhattan that has resulted in criminal cases against at least 47 people over the last two years.
Meanwhile, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, asked the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in a letter on April 26 to provide information on "potential scope of suspicious trading activity" at SAC.
For years, Mr. Cohen's firm has been beset by persistent whispers of a cowboy culture that often walked up to the line, if not over it, while generating stupefying returns, minting scores of millionaire traders and making Mr. Cohen a billionaire many times over.
Earlier this year, those whispers became louder when one of the SAC portfolio managers, Noah Freeman, admitted trading on illegal tips about publicly traded companies while working for Mr. Cohen and agreed to cooperate with the government's investigation, leading to questions about whether Mr. Cohen himself and the firm could become ensnared.
The other SAC portfolio manager, Donald Longueuil, pleaded guilty last week.
"The striking thing about SAC has always been its extraordinary performance in the absence of any identifiable special sauce," said Sebastian Mallaby, the author of "More Money Than God," a book published last year on the history of hedge funds. "Charges like these cast doubt on the legitimacy of the fund's investment process."
Neither SAC nor Mr. Cohen has been accused of any criminal wrongdoing and the firm is cooperating with the government's investigation. The government's interest in Mr. Cohen's trades was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.
Unlike many hedge funds that are controlled by one portfolio manager who makes all the investment decisions, SAC is decentralized; 142 small teams are each given control over hundred of millions of dollars to invest. Mr. Cohen attracts talented, ambitious traders because he offers to pay each team as if they run their own fund - without having to raise money and run a business.
"He's giving them a lot of autonomy - that's the pitch," said a former employee who asked for anonymity because he did not want to harm his relationship with Mr. Cohen. "Do I think the fish stinks at the head of SAC? No. But does the business model make it challenging to keep bad people from doing bad things? Yes."
The firm's unusual balkanized structure could ultimately insulate Mr. Cohen from any insider trading allegations. Most of the firm's traders invest on their own with little direct input from Mr. Cohen, who manages less than 10 percent of the fund's capital. The two SAC portfolio managers who pleaded guilty to insider trading worked in two different satellite offices - Boston and Manhattan - and had little contact with Mr. Cohen in the two years they worked at the firm.
Mr. Cohen, 54, who grew up in Great Neck, N.Y., on Long Island, spends most of his day either at his desk in the middle of an expansive trading floor in what feels like a domed football stadium or in his corner office, where he has an array of therapeutic devices for his bad back, including a massage table. From his desk, filled with computer screens, he manages his own portfolio, focusing primarily on health care, energy and industrial stocks. (He rarely trades technology stocks, which are the center of the government's vast investigation into insider trading at hedge funds.) He also monitors the firm's trading and with the flick of a switch can be piped in by video to any trader's desk to ask questions about a particular position.
Former SAC employees describe a firm that preaches ethics and integrity, but also is a sink-or-swim culture where traders can be summarily dismissed for poor performance. Mr. Cohen, who was once known to berate his employees in middle of the trading floor, imposes what he calls a "down and out" number for portfolio managers. That is, if the portfolio managers lose a certain amount of money, they risk being jettisoned from the firm.
Mr. Cohen will increase or decrease the money each team manages depending on their performance. If a trading team is generating strong returns, Mr. Cohen will often give them more money to manage. Groups that are floundering can see their allotment cut back.
SAC portfolio managers are known for relentlessly pressing sources for information about companies in the hopes of building what they call a "mosaic" to gain an investment edge. They have incentives to share their best ideas with Mr. Cohen, and if they want to do so, they must fill out an electronic form explaining the investment and the thesis behind it. Each Sunday afternoon, Mr. Cohen speaks to his senior staff to grill them about their investment plans, but the majority of the firm's daily trades are made without consulting him.
Teams are paid a percentage of the profits that they generate for SAC, which, including its borrowings from banks, has a staggering $39 billion in total buying power. The more money a team manages, the greater that team's potential compensation. Top traders can earn tens of millions of dollars annually.
"It's a Darwinian and pressure-packed culture with ridiculous amounts of money at stake," said another former employee, who asked for anonymity because he did not want to spoil relationships at the firm.
In a letter sent to his investors in February when the two former portfolio mangers were arrested, Mr. Cohen wrote, "If the government allegations are true, these former employees' actions are egregious violations of our policies and ethical standards and inconsistent with our culture of compliance. Any wrongdoing that might have been committed by an individual or individuals is not reflective of our organization or the integrity of our more than 850 employees."
In the last several years, SAC has put in place a compliance program to monitor the firm's activities and has had lawyers including Harvey L. Pitt, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission , speak to the company's employees.
"Listen, we've beefed up our compliance," Mr. Cohen told Vanity Fair magazine last year. Still, he allowed, "This was a learning process."
He explained that, back in the 1990s, "you have to remember, we were smaller. Things were different then."
The firm has been under a cloud since a former employee, Richard Choo-Beng Lee, pleaded guilty in 2009 to insider trading and began helping the government in its investigation. The crimes he confessed to were committed after he left SAC, but he agreed to provide information about his five years at the firm, which ended in 2004.
The United States attorney in Manhattan has twice issued subpoenas to SAC requesting the firm's trading records. And late last year, F.B.I. agents raided two large hedge funds owned by former top SAC traders.
Mr. Cohen has declined to comment about the insider trading investigation. There have also been at least two other instances of federal authorities citing illegal trading by traders with connections to SAC.
In 2009 federal prosecutors criminally charged an investment banker with providing illegal tips about merger and acquisition deals to an unnamed hedge fund analyst who traded on the information. The analyst, who generated $3.5 million in profits for his firm, was Jonathan Hollander, a former SAC employee, according to a person with direct knowledge of the case, who would not speak publicly about it.
Mr. Hollander's lawyer, Aitan D. Goelman, declined to comment. The government dismissed the complaint against the investment banker and has not charged Mr. Hollander with any wrongdoing.
Earlier this year, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed civil insider trading charges against Robert Feinblatt, who started his own hedge fund after leaving SAC in 2002. Mr. Feinblatt did not return telephone calls seeking comment.
Amid the distractions, Mr. Cohen continues to counter the long-held stereotype that he is a cagey hedge fund manager who never leaves his trading lair. He and his wife have stepped up his philanthropy, recently donating $50 million to finance the Cohen Children's Medical Center on Long Island. He frequently appears at art shows, where he looks to add to a world-class collection of paintings by artists including Pablo Picasso and Andy Warhol.
Before a packed banquet room at the Waldorf Astoria hotel, Mr. Cohen recently sat for an hourlong interview at an investment conference sponsored by a Wall Street research firm.
The interviewer was a fellow hedge fund titan, Paul Tudor Jones, who refrained from asking questions about the government's insider trading charges.
Instead, he asked Mr. Cohen about his market outlook.
"Underneath stocks are exploding, and everything I'm seeing today looks bullish," he said. "I'm not going to get negative just for the sake of being negative."

        
SAC Capital to Try to Reassure Investors
        
New Breed of SAC Capital Hire Is at Center of Insider Trading Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BASEBALL (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); LAWYERS (68%); WRITERS (64%) Cohen, Steven A; Hedge Funds; Insider Trading; SAC Capital Advisors; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); NEW YORK METS (57%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (54%) SAC Capital Advisors

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (94%); MICK JAGGER (57%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Cohen, Steven A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012



178 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: With Death Outpacing Birth, A County Slows to a Shuffle

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and ROBERT GEBELOFF; Sabrina Tavernise reported from Weirton, W.Va., and Robert Gebeloff from New York.

 BODY:
WEIRTON, W. Va. -- Life in this industrial area has slowed to a shuffle along with the steel mills that used to power it. Young people have moved away, leaving an aging population that no longer has the energy to put on street fairs or holiday parades.
In fact, this community in West Virginia's northern panhandle holds an unwelcome distinction. With just 71 babies born on average for every 100 residents who die, Brooke County, in which Weirton is partly located, has the largest such gap in the nation among counties in metropolitan areas, save for a handful of places that are magnets for retirees. (Hancock County, which contains the other part of Weirton, is in similar demographic straits.)
The main reason Brooke County is so far off the national number -- which is 171 births to 100 deaths -- is that it has missed out on one of the dominant demographic trends to emerge from the recent census: the influx of young immigrants into communities across the United States. The median age for Hispanics, by far the largest immigrant group, is just 27, far lower than the median age for whites of 41. 
Without immigrants or economic opportunities to keep its younger residents close to home, Brooke County and others like it are showing their age. At St. Paul Catholic Church in Weirton, the Rev. Larry Dorsch has buried 15 people this year and baptized one. The American Legion in Wellsburg has closed because of a lack of young supporters. Volunteer fire departments are so understaffed that people come from other towns to fight fires.
''You can declare a person dead, but you can't declare a town dead,'' said Daniel Guida, a lawyer in Weirton. ''Some towns have energy, that spring in your collective step. We're missing that. We need to get on with Act 2. But how?''
According to Kenneth Johnson, the senior demographer at the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire, there are now 853 counties with similar population trends -- ''more coffins than cradles,'' as he calls it -- including parts of the Great Plains, the Midwest and New England. (The problem is even more acute across the Atlantic -- countries in the European Union collectively will cross the threshold for having fewer births than deaths by 2015, and would experience population growth only through immigration, according to a 2009 report on aging published by the European Commission.)
West Virginia is the only state in the country with more deaths than births, but other states, like Maine, are not far behind. Mr. Johnson estimates that many white areas will tip into natural decrease in the next 10 to 15 years.
''This is the story of what's happening to white America,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''America is built by young people. They are the backbone. But what if they are not there?''
If Brooke County is a postcard from the future, it ended up there because it never adapted from its past.
For decades, it was a steel manufacturing powerhouse, employing thousands of workers in mills along the Ohio River. Weirton Steel, a hulking plant that straddles Weirton's main street(it was recently used as a set for a science fiction movie, ''Super 8,'' and in the 1970s for ''The Deer Hunter''), was once the largest single private employer in the state.
Now Wal-Mart holds that distinction, and Weirton Steel, now owned by Arcelor Mittal, a Luxembourg company run by an Indian billionaire, is a small fraction of its former size. Grass grows through cracks in the vast, empty parking lots.
Manufacturing jobs, long the lifeblood of the area, shrank by 38 percent statewide since 1990. Now health care is the state's second-largest employer after government. The number of young people here sagged with the economy. The population under 35 is about half of what it was in 1980, while the number of residents 55 or older has jumped by 23 percent, according to 2010 census data released Thursday.
Now walkers and wheelchairs are more common than strollers. Sunday school classrooms at the United Methodist Church downtown are ghostly quiet, and Brooke High School has just half the number of students it did when it opened in 1969.
Even funerals are drawing smaller crowds. John Greco, 46, a funeral home director in Weirton, said 50 to 60 guests attend funerals today, about half the numbers in the 1990s. Mr. Greco said 37 members of his high school graduating class moved away, compared with 16 who stayed in town.
''It's very natural now that everybody my age is gone,'' said Mr. Greco, who stayed to take over his grandfather's business.
Fewer people means, inevitably, less of a sense of community. Father Dorsch spends his days looking for ways to revive it. In one town, he used public outrage about stray shopping carts to get people involved in improving their community. But Weirton has such bitterness over the mill that it has been hard to get its residents to trust anybody, and it seems stuck in place.
''It's like a clinically depressed person, who curls up on the couch and withdraws,'' he said of Weirton. ''It's the hardest assignment I've ever had.''
The demographics have created a death spiral, both literal and metaphorical. The lack of young people had reduced the tax base.
With so few young people, volunteer fire departments are having trouble keeping staffing at safe levels. Greg Sheperd, 34, a volunteer at the Bethany Fire Department, said that when the alarm goes off, the trucks leave with just two people on them. Six are needed, Mr. Sheperd said, so volunteers have to come from other towns to help.
His wife, Tara Sheperd, also in her 30s, said most of her colleagues at the food bank she runs in Weirton are over 50. Water cooler talk is, well, old.
''I no longer think the doughnut hole is a restaurant,'' Ms. Sheperd said, referring to the nickname for the gap in prescription drug coverage for the elderly that is a constant topic of conversation at work.
But even one energetic young couple can do a lot to bring a town back to life, as the Sheperds have proved in Beech Bottom, the tiny town where they live. The town now has a new playground, thanks to the grant writing skills of Mr. Sheperd, who is from the county. They also have revived the town picnic, and have set up a Web site (www.beechbottomwv.org) and a newsletter. They recently received a grant to start a recycling program.
''We need someone to help us keep the plates spinning,'' Mr. Sheperd said. ''There's just not a lot of us here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Communion ceremonies at St. Paul Catholic Church in Weirton, W.Va., tell part of the story of the aging population in Brooke County. Above, in 1936, a large group of children poses at the church. At right, some of the 13 children at a ceremony on Sunday.
 John Greco, 46, stayed in Weirton to take over his family's funeral home. He says most of his schoolmates have moved away. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MORALES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) MAP: More Coffins Than Cradles: There were 171 births for every 100 deaths in the U.S. last decade, Census data shows, but in some parts of the country, there were fewer births than deaths. (Source: Census Bureau) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); AGING (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (89%); TRENDS (88%); IMMIGRATION (87%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); CITIES (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); AMERICAN LEGION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



179 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Florida Legislators Pass H.M.O. Plan for Medicaid

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MIAMI -- In a sweeping overhaul of its $21 billion Medicaid program, the Florida Legislature approved a bill Friday to shift nearly three million Medicaid recipients into managed-care programs in the hope of saving money and improving services.
''Medicaid has grown faster than any other part of our budget,'' said State Senator Joe Negron, Republican of Stuart, who took the lead on the bill. ''It is crowding out funding for education, economic development and other parts of the budget that are equally important.'' 
If signed into law as expected, the bill will make Florida, with one of the largest number of Medicaid patients and a high rate of uninsured, one of the biggest states to jump almost entirely from a traditional Medicaid payment system into managed care. The wholesale shift would begin in July 2012.
The bill, a compromise between the House and the Senate versions, would allow the state to decide how much to spend on Medicaid each year, share in the profits of managed-care companies if they exceed 5 percent and penalize networks that reneged on contracts. To help ensure better care for patients, the bill would also require plans to include specialists and provide higher reimbursement rates to doctors.
Patients would be charged $10 monthly premiums and $100 if they showed up at the emergency room with a non-emergency.
The state and managed-care companies would control which services to provide to Medicaid patients. In so doing, the legislation would do away with the existing fee-for-service system, in which the state pays providers for each service, a practice that has led to widespread fraud and inconsistent care. Reimbursement rates have dropped so low that many doctors choose not to treat Medicaid patients.
The Legislature's bill seeks to remedy those issues with the requirement that plans include specialists and the higher reimbursement rates to doctors.
Another sweetener for doctors and hospitals is a provision that limits the amount they would have to pay out in malpractice damages for pain and suffering to $300,000 for each Medicaid claimant, unless the damages award is punitive. Senator Negron said the cap was appropriate because doctors who treat Medicaid patients are basically providing a public service and should be encouraged to do so.
But Democrats said it would be unreasonable to charge poor patients fees and unjust to treat them differently in malpractice cases. ''Why is it that their pain and suffering is devalued?'' asked State Senator Arthenia L. Joyner, a Democrat of Tampa.
Gov. Rick Scott, a wealthy former health care executive who made revamping Medicaid a priority, supports the legislation, which is projected to save $1.1 billion in its first year.
But the proposed law cannot go into effect without the approval of the federal government, which pays more than half of Florida's Medicaid tab. Last month, the federal government advised legislators to choose the payment system that would guarantee that a percentage of the money, in this case 90 percent, would go to patient services. Instead, the Legislature chose the other option: to share profits with managed-care companies.
But Senator Negron said he was not worried. ''We have given the federal government a hundred good reasons to approve our plan,'' he said. ''I think they will work with us because they have the same economic pressures that we have.''
Democrats and patient advocates said that they worried profit would get in the way of care and that some people would not be able to pay premiums. They expressed alarm that the bill is based on a five-year-old pilot program in five Florida counties that had decidedly mixed results. At least seven managed-care companies pulled out of the program in Broward County, and many patients -- most of whom are low-income children or pregnant women -- fled to networks run by hospitals.
Managed care is not new to Florida. About 60 percent of Medicaid patients are in some form of managed care but, outside of the pilot program, they must receive a mandated minimum level of benefits.
The Medicaid overhaul also extends into long-term care. Nursing home residents would shift into managed care, but the bill provides a separate provision for them. Payments would go directly to the nursing homes, bypassing managed-care companies, so money would not be deducted for administrative fees. Savings would come by shifting more people into home- and community-based programs.
Developmentally disabled people would be exempt from the managed care system for now. And each of the 11 managed-care regions in Florida would have to include a network run by a hospital or doctors. Those networks could continue to use the traditional payment system for three more years.
Those who already have insurance and are eligible for Medicaid would receive a voucher from the state to apply to their policies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (96%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); DAMAGES (89%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); HOSPITALS (74%); HEALTH CARE (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (65%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (74%); TAMPA, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



180 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Price of Crude Oil Falls Again, but Analysts Warn It Will Remain at Lofty Levels

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- With the Memorial Day weekend and summer driving season coming soon, the sudden drop in oil prices could mean that drivers will find moderately lower gasoline prices at just the right moment.
But many energy analysts and economists predict that oil and gas prices will remain stubbornly high.
Supplies remain constrained by turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa, oil specialists said, and there is always the possibility that conflict could cut production in Nigeria. At the same time, expanding economies like China and India continue to drive the growth in oil consumption. 
''Nothing has changed, except psychology and taking profits,'' Allen Sinai, chief global economist of Decision Economics, a consulting firm, said of this week's selloff in the oil futures market. ''This is a correction, and not a shift in trend.''
Light sweet crude, the benchmark of New York trading, fell below $100 on Thursday for the first time since March, but it remains almost 30 percent higher than a year ago. At the close on Friday, oil for June delivery was down $2.62 at $97.18 a barrel.
Gasoline prices fell a fraction of a penny on Friday, according to AAA's daily gas gauge. But with the average regular gallon costing $3.98, that is still 28 cents higher than a month ago and a $1.06 more than a year ago.
Other commodities were mixed after a sharp selloff on Thursday. Gold and cocoa were higher, while silver, wheat, cotton and copper were lower again on the day.
Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst of the Oil Price Information Service, predicted that the average price for a gallon of regular gasoline would fall to $3.75 by Memorial Day and to $3.50 later in the summer. Those are still historically high prices, taking consumers back to a level they were paying earlier this year.
President Obama, speaking to auto plant workers in Indiana on Friday, acknowledged the public frustration over high gas prices. ''We've got high gas prices that have been eating away at your paychecks and that is a headwind that we've got to confront,'' he said.
Meanwhile Attorney General Eric H. Holder directed a special task force to examine whether reductions in oil prices were being passed on to consumers. ''Fraud or manipulation must not be allowed to prevent price decreases,'' Mr. Holder said in a memo.
Corrections, even sharp ones, are not unusual as commodity prices follow longer trends up. A Barclays Capital research note on Friday observed that on several occasions last year, weak economic data pushed oil prices down to $70 a barrel. ''Those periods were indeed short-lived,'' Barclays noted, before oil prices continued their march upward.
While commodity traders move oil markets up and down from day to day, the fundamentals of supply and demand are the drivers from month to month and year to year. Though the fundamentals continue to point higher, oil prices are not expected, at least anytime soon, to return to the levels reached in 2008 when a barrel of crude neared $150 a barrel.
The Energy Department predicts moderately tightening world markets. The department last month estimated that world consumption would grow by an average of 1.5 million barrels a day in both 2011 and 2012. Despite more drilling in OPEC and non-OPEC countries, the department projected that supplies would increase to meet only roughly half the added demand this year and roughly 80 percent of the added demand in 2012.
International financial analysts and oil experts have been predicting a correction for some time in oil prices, since there are ample supplies at the moment. But many think oil prices are going higher in the second half of the year.
''Worldwide, the macro picture has not changed,'' said Andy Lipow, a former Amoco trader who is president of his own Houston consulting firm. ''Oil demand around the world continues to increase at the same time we are experiencing a supply disruption in Libya as well as a reduction of supplies from the Gulf of Mexico.''
He predicted that the price of oil would return to the $110 a barrel level by the end of the year. The Macquarie Group projected in a commodities research note this week that light sweet crude would average $110 a barrel this year, $115 in 2012 and $117 in 2013.
The military stalemate in Libya has taken over a million barrels a day of high-quality crude off the market, and oil fields and terminals have been damaged in the fighting. Meanwhile nearly half of Yemen's 260,000 barrels of daily production is offline. That is a relatively small amount, but Yemeni crude is also a high-quality product that refiners find difficult to replace.
Saudi Arabia promised earlier in the year to increase its production capacity, but it actually cut production recently, claiming that the world markets were flush. Whether the kingdom steps up production remains to be seen, and energy experts are watching closely to see what if any decisions are made on OPEC production and prices at the organization's next meeting in June.
Recent International Energy Agency and Energy Department reports predict that China, India, other developing nations and the Middle East itself will continue to consume more oil as they build factories and their middle classes add thousands of cars every week to the world fleet.
The Energy Department reported that crude inventories last week had risen by 3.4 million barrels, because American gasoline consumption has been slowing. Consumption may rebound somewhat as prices ease again, energy experts say. Meanwhile, after the earthquake in Japan, demand for oil was down by about 30,000 barrels a day. That reduction was less than expected, and Japan will almost certainly import more oil as its economy recovers and it replaces some nuclear generation with heating oil.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders in the crude oil options pit of the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil for June delivery fell $2.62, to $97.18 a barrel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (97%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); TRENDS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); COTTON MARKETS (88%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); CONSUMPTION (76%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (50%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (67%) MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (90%); AFRICA (90%); INDIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



181 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Face That Screamed War's Pain Looks Back, 6 Hard Years Later

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Duraid Adnan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MOSUL, Iraq -- Until the past week, Samar Hassan had never glimpsed the photograph of her that millions had seen, never knew it had become one of the most famous images of the Iraq war.
''My brother was sick, and we were taking him to the hospital and on the way back, this happened,'' Samar said. ''We just heard bullets.
''My mother and father were killed, just like that.''
The image of Samar, then 5 years old, screaming and splattered in blood after American soldiers opened fire on her family's car in the northern town of Tal Afar in January 2005, illuminated the horror of civilian casualties and has been one of the few images from this conflict to rise to the pantheon of classic war photography. The picture has gained renewed attention as part of a large body of work by Chris Hondros, the Getty Images photographer recently killed on the front lines in Misurata, Libya. 
The photograph of Samar is frozen in history, but her life moved on, across a trajectory that is emblematic of what so many Iraqis have endured. In a country whose health care system has almost no ability to treat the psychological aspects of trauma, thousands of Iraqis are left alone with their torment.
Now a striking 12-year-old, Samar lives on the outskirts of Mosul in a two-story house with four other families, mostly relatives.
The household is a cramped bustle of activity as women cook and clean and children scramble about. Samar's older sister, Intisar, and her husband, an unemployed former police officer, care for her. Two of his sons are policemen, and their salaries support the extended family.
The pains of war have been visited on thousands of Iraqis, but even here Samar's story stands apart. Three years after her parents were killed, her brother Rakan died when an insurgent attack badly damaged the house where she lives now. Rakan had been seriously wounded in the shooting that killed their parents, and he was sent to Boston for treatment after Mr. Hondros's photos were published. An American aid worker, Marla Ruzicka, who helped arrange for Rakan's treatment, was herself later killed in a car bomb in Baghdad.
Intisar's husband, Nathir Bashir Ali, suspects his house was bombed by insurgents as retribution for sending Rakan to the United States. ''When Rakan came back from America, everyone thought I was a spy,'' he said.
Samar left school last year because she was too shy and not doing well, Mr. Ali said, although Samar said she would like to return and hoped to be a doctor when she grew up. She leaves the house only on infrequent family excursions and has two friends who visit to play with dolls and chat. She spends her days cleaning, listening to music on her purple MP3 player and watching episodes of her favorite television show, the Turkish soap opera ''Forbidden Love,'' about lovers named Mohanad and Samar.
''I am Samar,'' she said, wearing a long red dress and sitting on the couch next to Mr. Ali. Two of her siblings, also in the car when their parents were killed, sat nearby.
''I've taken them many times to the hospital, where they get pills'' for emotional problems, Mr. Ali said. ''All of them take pills.''
He says Samar's 8-year-old brother, Muhammad, talks to himself when he is alone. ''When we go out and see a family, they get sad,'' he said. Sometimes he finds the children in a room together, crying. ''When they remember the accident, it's like they just died.''
The photo of Samar had far-reaching impact, for it was visual testimony to a particular scourge of this war: the shooting of innocent civilians as they approached American checkpoints or foot patrols, killings made possible by liberal rules of engagement aiming to protect soldiers from suicide car bombers. The image was a point of discussion at the highest reaches of the Pentagon as it considered ways to reduce civilian casualties.
The Iraq war delivered few singular images for the popular imagination, partly because the country was too dangerous for photographers to move around freely, but also because in an age of saturated media coverage and short attention spans, it may be more difficult for news images to take root in the collective memory.
The military also set strict rules for embedded journalists that kept many graphic images from the public eye; the military asked Mr. Hondros to leave his embed assignment after he shot the pictures of Samar.
Liam Kennedy, a professor at University College Dublin, researches conflict photography and uses Mr. Hondros's image of Samar in his class as one of the few photos from the Iraq war that could stand out in history, comparing it to the famous Vietnam image by the Associated Press photographer Nick Ut of a young girl running from a napalm attack.
''It really seems to say something of what's going on at the time,'' Professor Kennedy said. ''All the arbitrariness of the violence that was going on at that time is summed up by that girl.''
Sarah Leah Whitson, director of the Middle East and North Africa division for Human Rights Watch, keeps a copy of the photo on a bulletin board in her office in New York. She remembers crying when she first saw the photo in a newspaper, and having to explain the image to her children.
''At the time, I thought it captured perfectly the horrors of the war that was not really understood by Americans,'' she said. ''Everything in that girl's face symbolized what I felt all Iraqis must feel.''
She added, ''I kept thinking, 'I wonder what life will be like for this girl?' ''
Mr. Hondros spoke about the photograph in a 2007 interview with the syndicated news program ''Democracy Now.''
''I think one of the reasons the photo had this sort of resonance that it does is because it has a sort of empty feeling,'' he said. ''You know, the poor girl, all alone in the world now, just standing there in the dark.''
This week Samar, hugging a pillow to her chest, recalled: ''He was taking pictures of me, I remember. Then he stopped, and they brought me a jacket and put me in the truck and treated the wound on my hand. And they gave me some toys.''
She had never seen the picture until this week, but she said she understood that it showed the world ''the sad thing that is happening in Iraq.''
Near the end of the interview, she pointed to a family photograph on the wall. ''I always dream about my father and mother and brother,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Samar Hassan, with a relative, had never seen the photo of her, below, taken after her parents were killed by U.S. soldiers in Iraq. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 Samar Hassan helps out around the house she shares with siblings and other relatives in Mosul, Iraq, but no longer attends school. Even in a traumatized country, her story is an unusual one. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); CHILDREN (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%)

COMPANY: GETTY IMAGES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541922 COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY (56%); NAICS541430 GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



182 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Payrolls Show Strong Growth For 3rd Month

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
For three straight months, the nation's employers have delivered solid job growth, easing some concerns that the economy could be stalling.
Employers added 244,000 jobs in April, more than economists had forecast and an increase from 221,000 in March, the government reported on Friday.
As a measure of how far uphill the economic climb remains, though, the unemployment rate actually nudged up to 9 percent, from 8.8 percent a month earlier. The Labor Department uses a different survey, of households rather than employers, to calculate that rate, which tends to be volatile.
The monthly snapshot of the job market showed that government workers continued to receive pink slips, but the private sector more than picked up the slack, adding 268,000 jobs in April, the most in five years. Hiring was spread broadly, with manufacturing, retail, health care, and leisure and hospitality industries all expanding. 
Including some revisions to reflect more hiring in February and March, the nation's employers have added an average of 192,000 jobs a month this year, compared with just 78,000 monthly last year.
''This is very encouraging for the sustainability of the recovery,'' said James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist at MF Global.
Another brighter sign was among the long-term unemployed. The number of people out of work for more than six months eased to 5.8 million, its lowest level since October 2009. Still, 13.7 million people remained without work and were still looking.
Earlier in the week, a number of reports indicated that the economy had stumbled in the days since the Labor Department compiled its survey. The biggest worry was a rise in new claims for unemployment insurance, and a survey of companies showed a slowdown in new orders and hiring.
Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist with the Economic Outlook Group, has spent most of the last year as a strong optimist, but sounds increasingly cautious.
''There are just too many economic indicators that point to an economy that has been slowing,'' said Mr. Baumohl, noting last week's report that output slumped to 1.8 percent in the first quarter of the year. ''It almost looks like a bull that's charging through a crowd, utterly impervious to what's in front of it.
''Regretfully, I think the pace of hiring will slow down in May and June,'' he added. ''I think in this case the job market is a lagging indicator, and I think it will probably fall off as well, as more signs point to a weakening economy.''
President Obama, speaking at Allison Transmission, a maker of transmissions that is increasingly moving into hybrid products, hailed the job numbers while acknowledging headwinds from high gas prices and interruptions caused by the earthquake in Japan. ''There are always going to be some ups and downs like these as we come out of a recession,'' he said. ''But the fact is that we are still making progress.
''And that proves how resilient the American economy is, and how resilient the American worker is, and that we can take a hit and we can keep on going forward.''
Manufacturing has been one of the surprising pillars of the recovery, adding back 250,000 of the 2.3 million jobs it lost during the recession. In April, it grew by 29,000 jobs, up from 22,000 in March.
A weakened dollar has helped exports, and companies are describing an increase in demand at home. Quality Float Works, a family-owned company that makes floating metal balls and valves in Schaumburg, Ill., shrank by six workers during the recession. Since the beginning of the year, it has hired two people and aims to hire two more.
Jason W. Speer, vice president and general manager, said that although high prices for energy and raw materials had temporarily made the firm hesitate, ''we've been getting long-term commitments from our customers, and we have felt fairly comfortable.'' He added: ''I can easily see hiring two or more before the end of the year, if we have no more bumps.''
Economists who saw signs of lasting momentum said they did not believe a few hiccups in coming months would derail the recovery this time. ''I do view this impending softness as a temporary response to the rise in oil prices,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at the High Frequency Economics research firm, ''not a fundamental reversal.''
Austan Goolsbee, the chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, said several signs pointed to continuing strength in hiring, including slower productivity gains after a fairly sharp run-up. After companies squeeze all they can out of their existing workers, they need to add more. ''This is clearly the track you want to be on to plow your way,'' Mr. Goolsbee said.
Average hourly earnings increased by 3 cents, to $22.95, and the average workweek was flat at 34.3 hours. Heather Boushey, senior economist at the liberal Center for American Progress, said she was concerned that neither wages nor hours were moving strongly upward, as would be expected if companies were wringing all they could out of their existing workers. ''We're not out of the woods,'' she said. ''As much as I think it would be such a relief to say, 'Hey, this is the out-of-the-woods report.' ''
Among job seekers, the least educated, African-Americans and teenagers continue to have the highest unemployment rates. For workers in the 55-and-over age group, the average duration of unemployment spiked to 53.6 weeks, compared with 39.4 weeks for those younger.
A weak area was government -- local, state and federal -- where the work force contracted by 24,000 jobs. Construction added 5,000 jobs, though mostly because of gains in heavy and civil engineering, probably helped by the remaining federal stimulus dollars devoted to infrastructure projects like highways. Most other segments of construction, including residential, shrank.
Temporary help, which has been strong, lost 2,300 jobs. Executives of two temporary services companies, Tig Gilliam, chief executive of the Adecco Group North America, and Jorge Perez, senior vice president of North America for Manpower, said companies that had relied on contract workers early in the recovery were now hiring.
Amanda Fisher, who was laid off from her hostess job at a high-end restaurant in New York City last October, applied for work with Manpower in November. After a couple of jobs in retail, she took an assignment as a customer service representative at a furniture company. Last month, the company offered her a full-time job with benefits.
''I have a real grown-up job,'' said Ms. Fisher, 21, who said she spent eight months out of work and was intermittently homeless early in the recession. Several of her friends, she said, were still ''in terrible situations.''
Online Correction: May 6, 2011, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated, in one reference, the reason for the increase in the unemployment rate. As the article noted elsewhere, the rate was based on a household survey, which showed a decline in employment; it did not reflect an increase in the number of job seekers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Job seekers at a fair in San Diego. The government laid off 24,000 people last month, as the private sector added workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MAUNG/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in April: UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
EMPLOYMENT
SHARE OF POPULATION
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT BY EDUCATION LEVEL
TYPE OF WORK
 AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); NEW ORDERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); EARTHQUAKES (50%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (55%); ALLISON TRANSMISSION HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: ALSN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%); WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



183 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Net Worth, Self-Worth and How We Look at Money

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
HOW you feel about money can have a significant impact on how you save, spend and plan for your financial future -- not to mention on your overall mental and emotional well-being.
This is one of the findings of a new academic study, ''Money Beliefs and Financial Behaviors: Development of the Klontz Money Script Inventory,'' published in the current issue of The Journal of Financial Therapy.
The study, conducted mainly by Brad Klontz, a research associate professor at Kansas State University, and Sonya L. Britt, an assistant professor there, comes at a time of high financial anxiety among most Americans. The jobless rate continues to be high. And houses, the asset that made so many people feel rich before the recession, have yet to regain their value. In fact, according to the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller Home Price Index, home prices in 20 metropolitan areas, after some modest gains, fell again in February. For those whose net worth is largely tied to the value of their houses, it could take a long time for their nest eggs to rebound, even if jobs do come back. 
Amid this financial unease, Mr. Klontz said he set out to test observations he had been gathering in his practice as a clinical psychologist in Kapaa, Hawaii, for over a decade. He found that some people were under stress about having too little money while others were anxious about losing what they had or felt guilty for having so much. Some people immediately disliked anyone with money, while others would spend their money immediately without regard to the future.
The Klontz study asked 422 people about 72 money-related beliefs and then analyzed correlations among the answers. This produced four broad categories that Mr. Klontz called ''money scripts'': money avoidance, money worship, money status and money vigilance. How does he define them?
Those who are in the money avoidance camp share beliefs that make them distance themselves from money. Mr. Klontz said this group may be worried about abusing credit cards. They may believe that they do not deserve to have money and may sabotage their own financial well-being. People in this group tend to have low incomes and net worth. They also tend to be younger.
People who fall into the money worship camp would seem to be the opposite, but their behaviors are equally destructive. They believe that an increase in income or a windfall will make everything better and love the status derived from the things that money can buy. This belief also lands people in debt because they use whatever credit they have to buy things that will impress others.
''They believe money will solve all of your problems,'' Mr. Klontz said. ''This is the money belief pattern that afflicts the majority of Americans.''
Anxiety about money status occurs when people's self-worth is linked to their net worth. These people often take bigger financial risks because they want to have the stories of big gains to impress their friends. (Don't expect them to tell you when those big bets do not pay off.)
The only affliction that did not have an overwhelmingly negative impact on people's financial future was money vigilance. People with this disorder do not like to share information about their income or wealth, but they also do not spend foolishly. Still, excessive wariness about spending can keep these people from enjoying the benefits of what money can buy. On the other hand, while they did not necessarily have higher incomes, they paid off their credit card bills each month.
''Maybe some anxiety and vigilance around money is good for your bottom line,'' Mr. Klontz said.
Not surprisingly, the four money scripts illustrate problems that have less to do with money than with what money represents. But what may be surprising is that the study found few links between who held what belief and their family background, race, gender, education level or income.
The majority of the people rated their highest level of education as either a college or graduate degree. Their income was equally divided into four categories, from less than $30,000 a year to more than $100,000. And their childhood economic status was generally middle class, with only a few reporting that they grew up poor or wealthy. In fact, the only link to family background came from the group that fixated on money as a way to gain status: mostly, they grew up poor.
A more common thread was how people remembered a financially traumatic moment in their life. Mr. Klontz described a case in which a family was beset by debt and about to lose its house. In one case, the grandmother bails out the family. In the other, the family figures out a way to keep the house on its own. The outcome is the same, but the takeaway can be different.
''If grandma swoops in and saves they day, you could walk away from that thinking that you don't need to worry about money,'' he said. ''Or where there was a lot of talk about losing the house, that could impact you so you live your life afraid of losing everything.''
So what is the solution? Mr. Klontz said people needed to be flexible about how they thought about money and to be open-minded in thinking about money's role in their lives. ''As human beings, we're always evolving and we only have part of the picture at any stage,'' he said. ''We need to identify the set of beliefs that work and the ones that don't and modify them or let go of them.''
One of the goals of the study was to use the results to create a test that therapists and financial advisers could use to quickly understand their clients' beliefs about money. Mr. Klontz estimated that administering the test could save therapists hours of conversation and help them understand how a patient came to a particular belief about money. He said it could also be part of a risk assessment questionnaire for financial advisers.
This raises the question of how people's beliefs about money have been altered by the recession. Will a generation become profoundly distrustful of banks and other financial institutions as some people did after the Great Depression?
Mr. Klontz said the answer depended on how honest people were with themselves, particularly those who lost a lot of money or their homes. He said people needed to ask themselves what role their behavior might or might not have played in the broader financial problems.
''The predatory lending and the greedy people on Wall Street, they've certainly played a role in this, but what led you to buy a house you couldn't afford, even if someone let you do it?'' he said. ''If you're willing to look at the answer to that, the likelihood of you making the same mistakes diminishes greatly.''
The thought of not blaming Wall Street for the financial crisis will send many people into fits of rage, but that is exactly Mr. Klontz's point. Bubbles do not happen in isolation. They take many, many people to buy in, including those who are now angry about having been duped.
Realistically, he said, most people will treat financial change the same way they do lifestyle changes after heart surgery: only about 10 percent maintain healthier lives two years after the surgery. ''That's a little depressing,'' he said. ''But then, one in 10 people do change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Maybe some anxiety and vigilance around money is good for your bottom line,'' says Brad Klontz, a financial psychologist and author. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO GARCIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (91%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (61%)

ORGANIZATION: KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



184 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Strong Jobs Report Gives Wall St. an End-of-Week Lift

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks advanced on Friday as stronger-than-forecast growth in jobs bolstered confidence in the nation's economy.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.10 points, or 0.38 percent, to 1,340.20. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 54.57 points, or 0.43 percent, to 12,638.74 and the Nasdaq was up 12.84 points, or 0.46 percent, at 2,827.56. For the week, however, the S.& .P. slipped 1.7 percent.
''The jobs report was pretty solid,'' said Russ Koesterich, the global chief investment strategist for the IShares unit of BlackRock in San Francisco. 
''It gave people more conviction that the economic recovery is still on pace. Investors started to doubt the sustainability of the rebound and commodities naturally took the hit. The rally is a partial reversal of that sentiment. There's more room for stocks to move higher during the course of the year.''
Shares of DuPont and Boeing rose at least 1.1 percent to help lead gains in the Dow. Stock in Kraft Foods and Fluor climbed more than 2 percent after beating analysts' earnings estimates.
Gauges of energy and raw-material companies fell more than 4.4 percent through Friday to lead the S.& P. 500's retreat from an almost three-year high reached on April 29. The plunge in commodity shares led the index to a 2.1 percent retreat over the first four days of this week. Including the Friday rebound, the index is up 6.6 percent this year amid higher-than-forecast profits and government stimulus efforts.
Payrolls increased by 244,000 workers last month, the biggest gain since May 2010, after a revised 221,000 increase the month earlier, the Labor Department said. Economists had projected an April rise of 185,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Employment excluding government jobs jumped the most in five years. The jobless rate rose to 9 percent, the first increase since November.
''The very positive jobs report was just what we needed after all the bad news of the last few days,'' said Paul Zemsky, the head of asset allocation for ING Investment Management in New York. ''The market is going to focus on the change in private payrolls, which was excellent. That will more than offset a slight increase in the unemployment rate. If oil continues to fall, we'll see higher consumer spending and a very good environment for stocks.''
The euro extended losses versus the dollar as European finance officials held an unscheduled meeting in Luxembourg where they may discuss proposals for restructuring Greek debt. ''We're seeing some knee-jerk reaction in the currency market,'' said Kevin Caron, a market strategist in Florham Park, N.J., for Stifel Nicolaus & Company. ''The dollar gets a bid as a haven when there's concern about risks. As investors bid the dollar, they sell other things, like commodities and stocks.''
A gauge of industrial companies in the S.& P. 500 rose 0.8 percent, the most within 10 groups. Shares of DuPont, the chemical maker, rose 1.4 percent, to $54.63. Boeing stock gained 1.1 percent to $79.31.
Kraft shares rose 2.1 percent, the most in the Dow, to $34.08. Food and beverage companies like Kraft, Sara Lee and Kellogg have raised prices on many products to cope with rising costs for commodities including wheat, corn and coffee. Kraft, led by Irene Rosenfeld, its chief, said price increases had helped make up for rising costs.
Fluor shares jumped 7.9 percent to $70.87. The company said first-quarter profit rose 2.3 percent as higher metal prices spurred mining projects. A rebound in commodity demand and higher oil prices have increased mining and energy contracts, helping Fluor reach record backlog of $37.2 billion.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 1/32, to 104, and the yield was unchanged at 3.15 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%); ING GROEP NV (57%); BOEING CO (55%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (57%); INGA (AMS) (57%); ING (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



185 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 536 words

PERSON: Ronald D. Asmus 

HEADLINE: Ronald D. Asmus, 53; Favored Expanded NATO

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
Ronald D. Asmus, an early proponent of expanding the Atlantic alliance to include Eastern European nations and a key figure in the Clinton administration's realization of that vision, died April 30 in Belgium. He was 53. 
The cause was complications of leukemia, said the German Marshall Fund of the United States, where Mr. Asmus had worked since 2002, most recently as executive director of its Brussels office.
Mr. Asmus made his name in a 1993 article published by Foreign Affairs that was among the first public calls for an expansion of NATO in the wake of the cold war. He and the article's two other authors, all employees of the RAND Corporation, argued that the United States should embrace the inclusion in the alliance of Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary -- and potentially other countries -- as the best way to make Europe ''whole, free and at peace.''
It was a controversial position at the time. Many Americans viewed the collapse of the Soviet empire as an opportunity to pull back from international obligations. Others believed that the United States should focus on engaging Russia, which viewed an expansion of the alliance as an affront and a direct threat.
Mr. Asmus argued that America's focus should be on Europe's stability, which at the time seemed something of a question mark. Later, he and others increasingly made a broader argument: that a strong, stable Europe was the natural and crucial partner for the United States in dealing with new problems in other places.
In 1997 Mr. Asmus joined the State Department as a deputy assistant secretary in the European bureau, where he played a leading role in making that expansion a reality.
''He was an intellectual progenitor, a godfather of an exceedingly important series of decisions and policies,'' said Strobe Talbott, the former deputy secretary of state who oversaw Mr. Asmus's work on NATO expansion.
Mr. Asmus traveled with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright to Independence, Mo., in 1999 for the ceremonies marking the official entry of Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary into NATO. Ms. Albright greeted him with a hug, he later recalled, telling him: ''Ron, it's doesn't get any better than this. We are making history.''
Ronald Dietrich Asmus was born in Milwaukee on June 29, 1957, the child of German immigrants whom he later described as fleeing ''the aftermath of war and destruction.''
While an undergraduate studying engineering at the University of Wisconsin, he visited Berlin to look for the house where his grandmother had lived during the 1930s, and found a city still in the grip of conflict.
Upon returning home, he studied political science, earning a master's degree in Soviet and Eastern European studies and a doctorate in European studies from Johns Hopkins University.
In recent years, Mr. Asmus kept working to strengthen ties between America and Central Europe as head of the Brussels office of the German Marshall Fund, a Washington-based think tank endowed by the German government in 1972 to foster trans-Atlantic cooperation.
He is survived by his wife, Barbara Wilkinson; his son, Erik Asmus; his mother; and two brothers.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronald D. Asmus of the German Marshall Fund of the United States, right, with the diplomat Richard C. Holbrooke in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GAETAN MICLOTTE/GERMAN MARSHALL FUND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); LEUKEMIA (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); WRITERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (62%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); GERMAN MARSHALL FUND OF THE US (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%)

RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); BELGIUM (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); HUNGARY (92%); POLAND (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



186 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Credit Cards Got More Use In March

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Consumers used their credit cards more in March, in only the second monthly increase since the height of the financial crisis. 
The Federal Reserve said Friday that consumers increased their total borrowing by $6 billion in March, the sixth consecutive monthly gain. Consumers borrowed more to finance car loans for the eighth consecutive month. And a category of borrowing that includes credit card use rose for only the second time since August 2008.
More frequent credit card purchases could be a sign that consumers are feeling more confident about the economy.
The 3 percent overall increase pushed consumer borrowing to a seasonally adjusted annual level of $2.43 trillion, just 1.3 percent higher than the nearly four-year low of $2.39 trillion in September.
Americans spent more in March on furniture and electronic products, according to the government's latest report on retail sales. But they also had to pay higher prices for gasoline. Part of the rise in credit card borrowing may reflect higher pump prices.
Households began borrowing less and saving more during the recession, which began in December 2007. Economists think the belt-tightening may finally be coming to an end, thanks to gains in hiring and a one-year cut in Social Security payroll taxes. More borrowing and spending would mean stronger economic growth. Consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of economic activity.
The Labor Department reported Friday that businesses added 268,000 jobs last month, the most since February 2006.
The Fed's monthly consumer credit report covers auto loans and credit card financing but excludes loans secured by real estate such as mortgages and home equity loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); RECESSION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); RETAIL SALES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



187 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: You Call That Tough?

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
The only thing missing from Preet Bharara's press conference was the blaring of trumpets.
It was Tuesday, and the U.S. attorney in Manhattan was proudly unveiling a lawsuit against Deutsche Bank that his office had filed that morning. As he took reporters through the legal complaint, Bharara spoke sternly about how the bank had defrauded the Federal Housing Administration, which had insured hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of bad loans that the bank then sold to investors, reaping handsome fees.
Listening to Bharara, one could easily think that prosecutors were finally -- finally! -- getting tough on the bad behavior that helped bring about the financial crisis. Alas, it was mainly an illusion. 
Upon closer inspection, it turns out that the main target of Bharara's wrath was MortgageIT, a smallish division that Deutsche Bank bought in 2007 -- eight years into an alleged fraud that ended in 2009. In the complaint itself, not one MortgageIT executive was singled out as a wrongdoer; it was as if this faceless corporation had somehow defrauded the government without human help.
Most stunningly, despite concluding that MortgageIT executives had ''knowingly, wantonly and recklessly'' lied to federal officials, Bharara's office had decided that none of them deserved jail time. It had brought a civil, not a criminal, case, meaning the only punishment prosecutors could seek was money -- more than $1 billion in this instance. That sounds like a lot until you realize that Deutsche Bank's 2010 revenues were more than $42 billion. In other words, a tap on the wrist.
''Every lie is not a crime,'' said Bharara, when he was asked why no criminal charges had been brought. But two-plus years after the financial crisis, that's not the right question anymore. The right question is: Are there any lies that amount to crimes? When it comes to financial executives, it sure doesn't look that way.
To give him his due, Bharara has brought serious insider-trading charges against Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge fund manager, using evidence that included wiretaps of brazen phone calls between Rajaratnam and the insiders who were feeding him illegal information. If Rajaratnam is convicted -- inexplicably, the jury remains out after several weeks -- he would go to prison for a long time.
But that case doesn't have anything to do with the events that led to the financial crisis; indeed, one can argue that the immense resources devoted to cracking the insider-trading case meant that Bharara lacked manpower to go after those culpable for bringing us to the brink of financial disaster.
He also put Bernie Madoff in prison, though that didn't exactly require heaving lifting. Later, Bharara would take credit for forcing large settlements from two of Madoff's presumed enablers, Carl Shapiro and the late Jeffry Picower. But, here again, Bharara was searching for applause he doesn't deserve. Bharara parachuted into settlement talks that were well under way between Irving Picard, the trustee handling the Madoff bankruptcy, and lawyers for Shapiro and Picower. It was Picard's inquiry that made those settlements possible.
As for the big fish, they're all walking away unscathed. The Securities and Exchange Commission got a $67.5 million settlement out of Angelo Mozilo, the former chief executive of Countrywide. (Mozilo paid only $22.5 million; the rest was picked up by Countrywide's owner, Bank of America.) But prosecutors on the West Coast dropped their criminal investigation.
The Justice Department spent several years trying to build a case against Joe Cassano, the former head of A.I.G.'s Financial Products division. It gave up. Richard Fuld, the former chief executive of Lehman Brothers, approved a bookkeeping scam that hid billions of dollars of Lehman's debt from investors. Recent reports suggest that not only will he not be charged with a crime, he isn't even likely to face civil charges.
The MortgageIT executives are hardly in the same rank as Fuld or Mozilo, but the facts laid out in Bharara's complaint are truly shocking. Given special status by the F.H.A. to make loans to low-income Americans, which the government would then insure, the company flagrantly lied about the underwriting it had done. Loans would often default in a matter of months. Independent auditors who reported problems saw reports stashed in a closet, unread. To make a criminal case, prosecutors need to show that executives knowingly intended to deceive. If 10 years of this behavior doesn't qualify as intentional deception, it is hard to know what would.
I know that these are difficult cases to win. The one time prosecutors brought a criminal case involving the financial crisis -- against two Bear Stearns hedge fund managers whose fund collapsed in the summer of 2007 -- they lost. But so long as prosecutors resist bringing criminal cases against financial executives, they are sending a message.
Crime pays.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); WIRETAPPING (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (75%); BERNARD MADOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



188 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: In Search of a Republican Presidential Field

 BODY:
Even John Boehner, the speaker of the House and Republican chieftain, didn't bother to watch his party's presidential debate on Thursday, and it's hard to blame him. Only five candidates showed up, none with impressive followings. And what they said demonstrated why Republicans are having such a hard time delivering a coherent and appealing message ahead of the 2012 campaign. 
One debater, former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, is at heart a moderate conservative but desperately tried to bare his teeth to appeal to the Tea Partiers who rule the primaries. Another, Rick Santorum, a former United States senator from Pennsylvania, is much further to the right than the independents who control the general election. Herman Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, seemed to be running for Motivational Speaker of the United States rather than president, and two libertarian candidates were tuned only to their customized ideological frequencies.
The party's heavyweights, such as they are, stayed home. Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, has not yet declared, perhaps because he is still refining his explanation of why he passionately opposes President Obama's health care law though he implemented something very similar while governor. (His current line -- that states can do what the federal government should not -- is not likely to play well among the fierce partisans of the early primary states.) The other possibilities, including Newt Gingrich, Sarah Palin, Mike Huckabee, Mitch Daniels and Donald Trump, are either uncommitted to campaigning or are coyly waiting for the field to settle a bit.
Like a dark star, the Tea Party has pulled the entire Republican party rightward, and the vast distance between that star and the nation's center has made it difficult to run for president. The slightest deviation calls down cosmic storms. When the sharp panel assembled by Fox News for the debate noted that Mr. Pawlenty had supported a cap-and-trade system in 2008 to limit greenhouse gases, there were gasps in the audience in Greenville, S.C. He practically sunk to his knees to apologize.
''I was wrong. It was a mistake,'' he said. ''I'm sorry.''
With the exception of the libertarians, the other candidates have had to trample over each other to stake out positions so tough-minded they often abandon common sense. Mr. Santorum defended his position that stopping ''Obamacare'' was more important than avoiding a federal default. Then he went a step further and said it was the most important issue facing the country, apparently writing off any of the 13.7 million people still unemployed.
At some point, the party will have to do better to make a race out of 2012. But that will only happen if a leader can pull Republicans away from the distant margins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (64%); GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (52%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



189 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Ministers Meet To Study Fixes On Greek Debt

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE and LANDON THOMAS Jr.; Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt.

 BODY:
New moves to prevent the huge burden of Greek debt from overwhelming the country's economy were discussed Friday during an unannounced meeting of a small group of European finance ministers, including those from Germany, France and Greece.
After the private gathering, the prime minister of Luxembourg, Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said that Greece's financial assistance program ''does need a further adjustment'' and that it would be discussed at the group's next meeting on May 16.
Mr. Juncker told reporters that European Union officials were ''excluding the restructuring option which is discussed heavily in certain quarters of the financial markets,'' according to Bloomberg News. 
France, Germany, Italy and Spain were represented at the meeting in Luxembourg, which also included the president of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, and Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, Mr. Juncker said.
A spokesman for the Greek finance ministry did not respond to questions about the nature of the talks.
But after an evening of intense speculation, Athens confirmed in a statement that its finance minister, George Papaconstantinou, attended the meeting and discussed the country's economic predicament. ''The minister was invited to exchange views'' including economic developments in Greece, the statement said, denying an online report by Der Spiegel of Germany that Greece might leave the euro zone. That report caused a sharp drop in the euro, which fell to $1.4337 in New York, from $1.4530 late Thursday.
''It is clear that during this meeting it was never discussed or posed as an issue whether Greece would remain in the euro zone,'' the statement said, according to Reuters.
That Mr. Papaconstantinou traveled to Luxembourg for these discussions suggested that Greece might finally be prepared to concede what analysts have been arguing for more than a year: that Greece's debt, which is expected to exceed 150 percent of gross domestic product in the coming years, is unsustainable.
So far, Greek and European officials have said consistently that a debt restructuring that would cause bondholders to suffer a haircut, or a loss on their holdings, was out of the question. But that stance may not preclude a softer option in which bondholders might be persuaded to exchange their shorter maturity debt for securities with longer maturities and perhaps even a lower interest rate.
The majority of the bondholders are French, German and Greek banks, as well as the European Central Bank.
Referred to as a reprofiling, this softer approach was used successfully in Uruguay in 2003 and for weeks now has been a hot topic for discussion among policy makers in Europe as well as economists and analysts at investment banks.
A reprofiling would allow bondholders to avoid the stark losses they would face under a restructuring and would also give breathing room to Greece to generate enough cash to begin paying its debts.
Detractors say that such a solution, while appropriate for Uruguay, which suffered from a liquidity crisis, does not go far enough in the case of Greece, which is confronting a huge debt burden.
Policy makers at the European Central Bank are convinced that a Greek default would quickly undermine confidence elsewhere in the euro area and raise borrowing cost for other countries like Portugal and Ireland. It was also not clear what Greece would gain from such a move because its banks would fail and it would be years before the country could borrow internationally again.
Asked about default speculation at a news conference on Thursday, Mr. Trichet said, ''It is not in the cards.''
The meeting in Luxembourg, made up of just a few ministers and senior officials, frustrated the euro zone nations not invited.
Without the status of a formal meeting, the gathering could not make any decisions, but smaller euro zone nations are sensitive about suggestions that the bigger nations are effectively deciding policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); GREECE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); LUXEMBOURG (94%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); URUGUAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



190 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
SYRIAN SECURITY FORCES
OPEN FIRE ON PROTESTERS
Security forces fired on demonstrators in six Syrian towns and cities in a day of protests that activists declared a ''Friday of Defiance,'' killing 26 people and preventing protesters from gathering in larger demonstrations, activists and human rights groups said. The worst violence was reported in Homs, Syria's third-largest city. Page A5
OBAMA THANKS NAVY SEALS 
President Obama flew to an army air base in Fort Campbell, Ky., to thank, behind closed doors, the two dozen members of the Navy Seals who stormed the fortified compound in Pakistan where Osama bin Laden was hiding, describing it as one of the greatest military and intelligence operations in American history. Page A8
National
'CONVENIENCE CASINOS'
FACE SCRUTINY IN FLORIDA
The shooting death of a would-be robber at one of Florida's many ''Internet sweepstakes cafes,'' which offer slot-machine-type games and may take in as much as $100,000 a week, has drawn close scrutiny to a place that some customers call a casino and renewed calls by several county sheriffs for a statewide ban on the cafes' games. Page A11
AIMING AT FARM SUBSIDIES
Federal farm subsidies, long protected by powerful political interests, appear to be in serious danger. A budget proposal put forth by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin would take $30 billion out of the farm program over the next decade. Page A13
New York
ONE OF ACCUSED OFFICERS
TESTIFIES IN RAPE TRIAL
A police officer charged with raping a woman in her East Village apartment in 2008 took the stand in his own defense, with his account of what happened that evening standing in stark contrast with the portrait painted by the woman when she testified several weeks ago. Page A15
Business
INSIDER TRADING CASES
PUT SPOTLIGHT ON BILLIONAIRE
Federal prosecutors are examining trades made in an account run by the billionaire hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen, according to a government filing. The trades were suggested by two portfolio managers at Mr. Cohen's firm who have pleaded guilty to insider trading-related crimes. Page B1
FROM BOOM TO BUST
As prosperity washed over Ireland in the first decade of the 21st century, hundreds of thousands of Irish started to catch up with and even surpass many of their European neighbors. But now, after a plunge fed by a disastrous banking collapse, it is as if the boom never happened. And some of those who floated up during the good times now see themselves slipping even further behind. Page B1
Obituaries
LANNY FRIEDLANDER, 63
Lanny Friedlander founded the libertarian magazine Reason in 1968 in his college dorm room before dropping out of sight for the next 40 years. Page A17
Sports
WITH TEAM LEADING,
OWNER TURNS DOWN VOLUME
Mark Cuban is not an owner who merely watches his Dallas Mavericks, but rather one who outwardly cheers and complains. But now, with the Mavericks holding a 2-0 edge over the Los Angles Lakers in the second round of the Western Conference playoffs, Cuban is doing his part to steer clear of controversy.
Page B11
BOXING'S NEW HOME
The welterweight title bout between Manny Pacquiao and Shane Mosley will be decided in the ring, but what is happening outside the ring is perhaps of even greater significance. The bout will be aired on Showtime Pay-Per-View, the first time since the mid-1990s that HBO has not staged the bouts of the sport's best fighters. Page B11
Arts
A 'KING LEAR' PRODUCTION
AT THE PEAK OF ITS POWERS
Michael Grandage's crackling production of ''King Lear'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music -- which stars Derek Jacobi at the peak of his powers -- is, among other (and more strictly virtuous) things, terrifically entertaining, writes Ben Brantley. Page C1
HEALTH ISSUES PLAGUE LEVINE
The conductor James Levine's continuing struggle with back problems has caused him to wipe clean his slate of performances between next week and next fall, music officials said. The casualties include a long-awaited Metropolitan Opera tour to Japan and the Tanglewood Festival season. Page C2
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19
JOE NOCERA PAGE A19
CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); TESTIMONY (86%); INSIDER TRADING (85%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); POLITICS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); SHERIFFS (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); HISTORY (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (69%); WITNESSES (69%); SWEEPSTAKES (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (67%); STUDENT HOUSING (63%); BANK FAILURES (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); MARK CUBAN (55%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%); STEVEN COHEN (50%); STEVEN A COHEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



191 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Budget Seeks to Lay Off 5% of Teachers

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed on Friday to lay off 5,400 New York City workers, including 5 percent of all schoolteachers, in what would be the first significant city job cuts in two decades.
The proposed reductions, which Mr. Bloomberg said had been made necessary by sharp drops in state and federal aid, would leave the city with 289,000 municipal employees, its smallest work force since he took office in 2002. The mayor would also slightly reduce the city's overall spending, to $65.7 billion. His austere budget proposal follows years in which he expanded city spending and granted pay raises to city employees.
''This budget is full of difficult decisions,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at City Hall during a presentation of his spending plan for the fiscal year that starts July 1. 
Mr. Bloomberg's proposal faces uncertainty; in recent years, he has repeatedly pulled back from threatened cuts as part of negotiations with the City Council, which has the power to approve or reject the budget. Even before the mayor released his proposal to the public on Friday, education advocates and elected officials pledged to resist the proposed cuts.
In an interview after the mayor spoke, the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, said, ''We will do everything in our power to prevent teacher layoffs.''
But Mr. Bloomberg's tough talk reflects what he says is a grim economic reality, driven by rising pension and health care costs and falling state and federal aid. ''This thought that 'Oh, the city has plenty of money, they can make up for anything' is just not realistic,'' he said.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who in the past has suggested that the city had enough money to minimize cuts, said on Friday through a spokesman, ''We look forward to continuing to work with the mayor and his administration to rebuild the city and state economies so we can create good jobs for all New Yorkers.''
The mayor's proposal to lay off teachers follows his unsuccessful yearlong campaign to overhaul the rules for job reductions in the city school system, and some union and political leaders saw the layoff proposal as an effort to force the Legislature to address that issue. State law requires that the city lay off the most recently hired teachers first; Mr. Bloomberg has argued that the city should be allowed to lay off teachers based on merit, and has made that argument a centerpiece of his education proposals.
''We feel like pawns in his political struggles,'' said Ann Kjellberg, a schools advocate and the mother of a fourth grader. ''He said he needs $300 million to save these jobs, and $300 million seems like an amount you could find if you looked hard.''
The new schools chancellor, Dennis M. Walcott, estimated that the layoffs would increase class size by an average of two students. Depending on the grade, that could mean as many as 24 to 28 students per classroom, Mr. Walcott said.
''All schools will feel this one way or the other,'' he said. ''We have to manage this, and manage this very well.''
Mr. Bloomberg proposes not only to lay off 4,100 teachers, but also to eliminate 2,000 other teaching positions through attrition. He would reduce the number of parks employees and health clinic workers, along with operators of the 311 service, through layoffs and attrition.
Some of the staff cuts would have a direct impact on city programs. Angela Montefinise, a spokeswoman for the New York Public Library, said the Bloomberg budget would cut $40 million from the city library system, forcing it to ''slash its book-buying budget, cut back to just four days of service a week and possibly close up to 12 locations, lay off hundreds of workers, and eliminate countless programs and classes, despite being used by New Yorkers more than ever before.''
The budget would also close 20 fire companies but largely spare the Police Department at a time when, the mayor said, it remained important for the city to focus on security because of continuing terrorism threats.
The budget proposal includes no tax increases, but the mayor does propose some ways to increase revenue, including the addition of more cameras at traffic intersections to bring in an estimated $5.6 million in new fines.
The Bloomberg administration is also proposing expansion in several areas. It said it would open 10 new senior centers, each serving 250 to 300 people, around the city. One of the centers would cater to the visually impaired, while another would be intended to serve gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender seniors -- the first such center in the nation, according to the city's Department for the Aging.
The Council plans to hold hearings on the budget proposal, and will seek changes from the mayor. The final budget must be approved before the fiscal year begins.
Union officials and a variety of advocacy groups are gearing up to fight the proposed budget with a series of protests scheduled to begin on Monday. ''Same smoke, same mirrors, same attempt to blame others for his decision to lay off thousands of teachers,'' said Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers.
Some council members also denounced the mayor's handling of financing for child care for low-income families.
Mr. Bloomberg said he would allocate $40 million to avoid a cut in the number of child-care vouchers available in the city. But Councilman David G. Greenfield of Brooklyn, a Democrat who has often been a Bloomberg ally, called the mayor's approach to the child-care issue ''fundamentally dishonest'' because, he said, there was still an overall cut in financing for child-care vouchers.
Administration officials took strong exception to the criticism.
''Every single child that receives child-care services this year will be able to receive them next year,'' said Marc La Vorgna, a spokesman for the mayor. ''Period.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg presenting his budget Friday. (POOL PHOTO BY RICHARD DREW) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); BUDGETS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); MAYORS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



192 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: A Titan Under A Microscope

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Minh Uong/The New York TimesSteven A. Cohen, the once-secretive billionaire hedge fund manager, is suddenly everywhere.
On Monday, Mr. Cohen and his wife attended the Metropolitan Museum of Art's annual Costume Institute gala, where they rubbed elbows with the rock star Mick Jagger and the quarterback Tom Brady. On Wednesday, he is scheduled to speak, before former President George W. Bush, at a prominent hedge fund conference in Las Vegas. Earlier this year, he made his first trip to Davos, Switzerland, for the World Economic Forum, where he could be seen dancing the night away at a private party.
And Mr. Cohen is bidding to buy a large stake in the New York Mets from the team's owners.
Behind the scenes, life has not been nearly so fun. 
Federal prosecutors are examining trades made in an account run by Mr. Cohen at SAC Capital Advisors, his hedge fund in Stamford, Conn., that manages about $12 billion, according to a government filing. The trades were suggested by two SAC portfolio managers who have pleaded guilty to insider trading-related crimes. The charges are part of a vast investigation into insider trading at hedge funds by the United States attorney in Manhattan that has resulted in criminal cases against at least 47 people over the last two years.
Meanwhile, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, asked the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in a letter on April 26 to provide information on ''potential scope of suspicious trading activity'' at SAC.
For years, Mr. Cohen's firm has been beset by persistent whispers of a cowboy culture that often walked up to the line, if not over it, while generating stupefying returns, minting scores of millionaire traders and making Mr. Cohen a billionaire many times over.
Earlier this year, those whispers became louder when one of the SAC portfolio managers, Noah Freeman, admitted trading on illegal tips about publicly traded companies while working for Mr. Cohen and agreed to cooperate with the government's investigation, leading to questions about whether Mr. Cohen himself and the firm could become ensnared.
The other SAC portfolio manager, Donald Longueuil, pleaded guilty last week.
''The striking thing about SAC has always been its extraordinary performance in the absence of any identifiable special sauce,'' said Sebastian Mallaby, the author of ''More Money Than God,'' a book published last year on the history of hedge funds. ''Charges like these cast doubt on the legitimacy of the fund's investment process.''
Neither SAC nor Mr. Cohen has been accused of any criminal wrongdoing and the firm is cooperating with the government's investigation. The government's interest in Mr. Cohen's trades was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.
Unlike many hedge funds that are controlled by one portfolio manager who makes all the investment decisions, SAC is decentralized; 142 small teams are each given control over hundred of millions of dollars to invest. Mr. Cohen attracts talented, ambitious traders because he offers to pay each team as if they run their own fund - without having to raise money and run a business.
''He's giving them a lot of autonomy - that's the pitch,'' said a former employee who asked for anonymity because he did not want to harm his relationship with Mr. Cohen. ''Do I think the fish stinks at the head of SAC? No. But does the business model make it challenging to keep bad people from doing bad things? Yes.''
The firm's unusual balkanized structure could ultimately insulate Mr. Cohen from any insider trading allegations. Most of the firm's traders invest on their own with little direct input from Mr. Cohen, who manages less than 10 percent of the fund's capital. The two SAC portfolio managers who pleaded guilty to insider trading worked in two different satellite offices - Boston and Manhattan - and had little contact with Mr. Cohen in the two years they worked at the firm.
Mr. Cohen, 54, who grew up in Great Neck, N.Y., on Long Island, spends most of his day either at his desk in the middle of an expansive trading floor in what feels like a domed football stadium or in his corner office, where he has an array of therapeutic devices for his bad back, including a massage table. From his desk, filled with computer screens, he manages his own portfolio, focusing primarily on health care, energy and industrial stocks. (He rarely trades technology stocks, which are the center of the government's vast investigation into insider trading at hedge funds.) He also monitors the firm's trading and with the flick of a switch can be piped in by video to any trader's desk to ask questions about a particular position.
Former SAC employees describe a firm that preaches ethics and integrity, but also is a sink-or-swim culture where traders can be summarily dismissed for poor performance. Mr. Cohen, who was once known to berate his employees in middle of the trading floor, imposes what he calls a ''down and out'' number for portfolio managers. That is, if the portfolio managers lose a certain amount of money, they risk being jettisoned from the firm.
Mr. Cohen will increase or decrease the money each team manages depending on their performance. If a trading team is generating strong returns, Mr. Cohen will often give them more money to manage. Groups that are floundering can see their allotment cut back.
SAC portfolio managers are known for relentlessly pressing sources for information about companies in the hopes of building what they call a ''mosaic'' to gain an investment edge. They have incentives to share their best ideas with Mr. Cohen, and if they want to do so, they must fill out an electronic form explaining the investment and the thesis behind it. Each Sunday afternoon, Mr. Cohen speaks to his senior staff to grill them about their investment plans, but the majority of the firm's daily trades are made without consulting him.
Teams are paid a percentage of the profits that they generate for SAC, which, including its borrowings from banks, has a staggering $39 billion in total buying power. The more money a team manages, the greater that team's potential compensation. Top traders can earn tens of millions of dollars annually.
''It's a Darwinian and pressure-packed culture with ridiculous amounts of money at stake,'' said another former employee, who asked for anonymity because he did not want to spoil relationships at the firm.
In a letter sent to his investors in February when the two former portfolio mangers were arrested, Mr. Cohen wrote, ''If the government allegations are true, these former employees' actions are egregious violations of our policies and ethical standards and inconsistent with our culture of compliance. Any wrongdoing that might have been committed by an individual or individuals is not reflective of our organization or the integrity of our more than 850 employees.''
In the last several years, SAC has put in place a compliance program to monitor the firm's activities and has had lawyers including Harvey L. Pitt, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission , speak to the company's employees.
''Listen, we've beefed up our compliance,'' Mr. Cohen told Vanity Fair magazine last year. Still, he allowed, ''This was a learning process.''
He explained that, back in the 1990s, ''you have to remember, we were smaller. Things were different then.''
The firm has been under a cloud since a former employee, Richard Choo-Beng Lee, pleaded guilty in 2009 to insider trading and began helping the government in its investigation. The crimes he confessed to were committed after he left SAC, but he agreed to provide information about his five years at the firm, which ended in 2004.
The United States attorney in Manhattan has twice issued subpoenas to SAC requesting the firm's trading records. And late last year, F.B.I. agents raided two large hedge funds owned by former top SAC traders.
Mr. Cohen has declined to comment about the insider trading investigation. There have also been at least two other instances of federal authorities citing illegal trading by traders with connections to SAC.
In 2009 federal prosecutors criminally charged an investment banker with providing illegal tips about merger and acquisition deals to an unnamed hedge fund analyst who traded on the information. The analyst, who generated $3.5 million in profits for his firm, was Jonathan Hollander, a former SAC employee, according to a person with direct knowledge of the case, who would not speak publicly about it.
Mr. Hollander's lawyer, Aitan D. Goelman, declined to comment. The government dismissed the complaint against the investment banker and has not charged Mr. Hollander with any wrongdoing.
Earlier this year, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed civil insider trading charges against Robert Feinblatt, who started his own hedge fund after leaving SAC in 2002. Mr. Feinblatt did not return telephone calls seeking comment.
Amid the distractions, Mr. Cohen continues to counter the long-held stereotype that he is a cagey hedge fund manager who never leaves his trading lair. He and his wife have stepped up his philanthropy, recently donating $50 million to finance the Cohen Children's Medical Center on Long Island. He frequently appears at art shows, where he looks to add to a world-class collection of paintings by artists including Pablo Picasso and Andy Warhol.
Before a packed banquet room at the Waldorf Astoria hotel, Mr. Cohen recently sat for an hourlong interview at an investment conference sponsored by a Wall Street research firm.
The interviewer was a fellow hedge fund titan, Paul Tudor Jones, who refrained from asking questions about the government's insider trading charges.
Instead, he asked Mr. Cohen about his market outlook.
''Underneath stocks are exploding, and everything I'm seeing today looks bullish,'' he said. ''I'm not going to get negative just for the sake of being negative.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald Longueuil, right at top, a former manager at SAC Capital Advisors, leaving federal court in New York last month after pleading guilty to insider trading. Federal investigators are at work at the company's offices in Stamford, Conn., above. Steven A. Cohen founded the firm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK MAIMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 DOUGLAS HEALEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INSIDER TRADING (88%); GUILTY PLEAS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BASEBALL (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); LAWYERS (68%); WRITERS (64%)

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); NEW YORK METS (56%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (79%); MICK JAGGER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



193 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: The Bin Laden Bounce

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Osama goes down. Obama ticks up. That's the narrative of the killing of Osama bin Laden and the lift in the polls for President Obama in its aftermath. In fact, a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted after Bin Laden was killed found an 11-point jump in the president's approval rating. 
But the event and its effect are likely fleeting moments in our memories.
First, the same poll found that the president's approval rating on the economy dropped to its lowest level of his presidency.
It is a sobering reminder that terror for most Americans is no longer embodied in a bearded man hiding in Pakistan. It manifests daily in thoughts of not having enough to feed a family or fill a tank and in worrying about losing a job or a house.
Second, we are an America in need of Adderall. We have a hard time focusing on heady issues for long stretches. We prefer little candy-coated news nuggets to issues of substance -- picking Chiclets over chowder every time.
In fact, we can't even seem to be able to focus on our distractions, according to a new study reported on the Web site Science Daily and set to appear in the journal Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social Networking. In the study, researchers put participants in a room with a computer and a television and gave them 30 minutes to use either. On average, participants thought that they might have looked back and forth between the two devices about 15 times. In fact, they had looked back and forth, on average, 120 times.
We think we're multitasking, but we're only mincing attention.
And, third, the right and its corporate overlords will work tirelessly and spend endlessly to ensure that Obama's accomplishment is diminished. They're already tripping over themselves to credit George W. Bush in Bin Laden's demise, and Glenn Beck, that paragon of political distortion and delusion, went so far as to call the president's trip to ground zero ''disgusting,'' ''obscene'' and ''grotesque.''
Furthermore, the Supreme Court, by turning Lady Justice into a corporate concubine in the Citizens United ruling, has opened the floodgates of corporate spending on elections, and 2012 will be the first presidential test of it.
One omen for out-of-control spending by corporations is the amount donated to the Republican and Democratic Governors Associations -- which could already take unlimited amounts from corporations -- during the last election cycle.
According to a report issued last week by the Center for Responsive Politics, the Republican Governors Association received more than $60 million -- nearly half of all the money it raised -- from businesses, lawyers and lobbyists. That was nearly twice as much as the Democratic association received from those sources. And the biggest corporate contributor to the Republicans was, you guessed it: News America, a subsidiary of the News Corporation, which owns Fox News.
Aristotle once said that ''democracy is when the indigent, and not the men of property, are the rulers.'' We as a country are moving further and further away from that ideal.
This uptick for Obama is likely temporary. What will matter most as we enter the campaign season is the jobs picture, the public's level of engagement and an avalanche of ads.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Breaking Down the Uptick: President Obama's approval rating before and after Osama Bin Laden was killed. (Source: New York Times/CBS News Poll) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); LOBBYING (63%); LAWYERS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); GLENN BECK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



194 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Farm Subsidies Become Target Amid Spending Cuts

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When it comes to spending cuts, members of Congress like to say that ''everything is on the table.'' Except, generally, food. But now federal farm subsidies, long decried by policy makers as wasteful and antiquated but protected by powerful political interests, appear to be in serious danger.
This week, Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and the chairman of the House Budget Committee, told reporters, ''We shouldn't be giving corporate farms, these large agribusiness companies, subsidies. I strongly believe that.'' 
His budget proposal would take $30 billion out of the farm program over the next decade.
Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia and the majority leader, attended the first session of debt-limit negotiations on Thursday with a list of areas where he saw a potential agreement between Republicans and the White House, including farm subsidies.
A confluence of factors have lined up against the farm programs. While the rest of the economy remains largely stagnant, commodities prices and farm incomes have remained at a protracted high. The House Agriculture Committee, while still dominated by farm state members, is now peppered with freshmen who view cuts to these programs as an essential part of the broader attack on the federal deficit, the centerpiece of their campaigns.
Further, after taking a beating from constituents concerning their Medicare proposal last month, Republicans are eager to find an area of common ground with Democrats. Farm subsidies seem to fit the bill; conservatives condemn them as intrusions into the free market, liberals denounce them for encouraging environmentally harmful overfarming, and both sides see them as a form of corporate welfare.
What is more, some subsidies have placed the nation in violation of trade agreements, and members from both sides of the aisle have questioned why, with biofuel mandates creating such demand for ethanol, the government needs to subsidize it.
Powerful interests and political traditions continue to constrain efforts to cut subsidies. While all the free-market Republicans back reducing subsidies in general, some continue to support targeted aid like the subsidies long enjoyed by ethanol. Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker and likely presidential candidate, has been assertively arguing in favor of maintaining ethanol subsidies in the face of intense criticism from backers of market reforms like the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal.
But in both parties there is a sense that support for subsidies is waning. This year, Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, one of the nation's biggest farming states, told the state's farm bureau to expect cuts. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan and chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, told reporters at a state agriculture conference that ''making sure that we're doing our part in being fiscally responsible'' would be the biggest challenge in the next farm bill.
Others are thinking in a similar vein.
''I have been telling folks that the pie is getting smaller,'' said Representative Reid Ribble, a Republican freshman from Wisconsin who sits on the House Agriculture Committee. ''I am hearing from constituents back home that they want to see the government have less involvement in the pricing. There is a kind of a tenor right now that will allow us to have a significant change.''
Farm advocates say they hope they can stave off the worst.
''The scrutiny of farm programs is stronger than ever,'' said Chuck Conner, president of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives. ''It's not that farmers don't want to participate in deficit reduction, but at the same time, we hope people appreciate that all other federal programs have skyrocketed, which is why we are in this mess, and farm subsidies have not.''
Historically, federal farm subsidies have operated like piles of laundry: there are constant efforts to make them go away, but they always rise right up again.
The program is rooted in the response to the Great Depression, when the nation enjoyed a largely agrarian economy and the federal government recognized that farmers lacked a safety net.
The program has evolved over the years into a series of direct payments, insurance programs, low-cost loans and other benefits. The programs come up for reauthorization every five years, and farm advocates lobby hard against efforts to meaningfully reduce them, though some have been reformed over the years.
''Substantial cuts to agriculture have already been made,'' Ms. Stabenow said in an e-mail. ''And we'll continue measuring the performance of every program to reduce the deficit and maximize effectiveness.''
In 2011, taxpayers are projected to pay roughly $16 billion in aid to farmers through various programs, according to figures from the Congressional Budget Office.
The most controversial of these programs are the $5 billion in annual so-called direct payments to farmers of corn, soybeans and other crops, awarded simply for owning tillable farm land, even if they do not plant on it.
''If we can't figure out a way at this point to trim these payments,'' said Representative Ron Kind, Democrat of Wisconsin, who has long fought against farm subsidies, ''then it is just embarrassing.''
Large cuts to the agriculture subsidies will not go far in taming federal spending.
''Cutting farm subsidies doesn't bring that kind of ongoing savings,'' said Tyler Cowen, a professor of economics at George Mason University, comparing cuts to farm programs with longer term restructuring to entitlement programs like Medicare. ''Still, it is a great one-time gain, and it means lower prices for consumers and is a good idea all around.''
Farmers and their advocates insist that the subsidies have been demonized and overstated.
''Every time you read an article saying Congress better be looking at farm programs I am scratching my head,'' Mr. Conner said. ''When people think of the U.S.D.A. budget they think of farm programs, but it is really more a rounding error.''
But Mr. Kind and others say the push for broad budget cuts is working in their favor.
''The political dynamics have shifted in light of deficit reduction,'' he said. ''I am cautiously optimistic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Nebraska soybean harvest in 2010. A budget proposal would take $30 billion out of the farm program over the next decade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ALCOHOLS (87%); BIOFUELS (85%); ETHANOL (85%); DEBT CEILING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); AGRICULTURE FORESTRY & FISHING LAW (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); AGRICULTURE (75%); BIOMASS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); FACTORY FARMS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); DEBBIE STABENOW (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



195 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Sloan Group Is Lab Partner To the Arts

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Anna Ziegler's play ''Photograph 51'' focuses the spotlight on Rosalind Franklin, the least heralded of the four scientists who discovered the structure of DNA in 1953. Although Franklin's death from cancer at 37 precluded her sharing the Nobel Prize that this breakthrough brought, her X-ray photography provided the critical evidence of the molecule's famed double helix.
Ms. Ziegler's play, which is being staged at the World Science Festival in New York in June after other recent runs in Manhattan and in Washington, is one of many to benefit from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation's efforts to use art to improve the public's understanding of science and technology. This year alone Sloan is distributing about $5 million to commission, develop and present plays, films, television shows, books, radio programming, lectures and more. It spends another $5 million supporting public television and radio. 
Sloan, for instance, is backing Alan Alda's work in progress about Marie Curie, ''Radiance,'' which is having a reading at the science festival. It commissioned Matt Schatz's play ''The Tallest Building in the World,'' about the engineering of the twin towers, which is enjoying its world premiere at Luna Stage in West Orange, N.J., and Itamar Moses' ''Completeness.'' The story of a romance between a molecular biologist and a computer scientist, ''Completeness'' has its last performances at South Coast Repertory in Costa Mesa, Calif., this weekend and opens at Playwrights Horizons this fall.
Aside from the $5,000 grant Mr. Moses received, Sloan's involvement helped make the play more authentic, he said. ''Having it was one of the most helpful things for getting the science right,'' he said.
The professional scientists who served on his selection panel vetted material for him. ''They were able to tell me 'That's not true' or 'That problem she claimed to be working on has already been solved,' '' he said.
The Sloan program has coincided with -- and helped to popularize -- a mini-boom of science-related plays, music, films and books that began in the late '90s. In 1998, for example, Michael Frayn's play ''Copenhagen,'' about a meeting between the physicists Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg, made its debut in London and later won the Tony for best play in New York. That same year the director Darren Aronofsky released his first movie, the hallucinatory ''Pi.'' (Mr. Aronofsky, who most recently directed ''Black Swan,'' and the actress Rachel Weisz have signed on as producers of a film version of ''Photograph 51'' that Ms. Ziegler is writing.)
Among the hundreds of projects the foundation has supported in the last dozen or so years are the films ''The Diving Bell and the Butterfly'' and ''Flash of Genius''; the Pulitzer-Prize-winning play ''Proof''; and books like Dava Sobel's ''Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith and Love,'' and the forthcoming ''Grand Pursuit: The Story of Economic Genius,'' by Sylvia Nasar, the author of ''A Beautiful Mind.''
''The real payoff may not arrive for years to come, because we're systematically exposing an entire generation of artists to this subject matter for the first time,'' said Doron Weber, who oversees the arts program, ''but it's always nice to have a few big hits, like 'A Beautiful Mind,' so people understand what you're talking about.''
Most of the Sloan awards are given through partnerships with theaters like the Manhattan Theater Club and Ensemble Studio Theater, film schools that include those at New York and Carnegie-Mellon Universities, and film festivals like Tribeca and Sundance.
''When there's money for something, it happens,'' Mr. Weber said. Last week he was at a small Manhattan theater during the Tribeca Film Festival to watch readings from six screenplays that Sloan is helping to finance, including Ms. Ziegler's.
''We're trying to find projects that already have a producer or a writer behind them and launch them to the next level,'' said Beth Janson, executive director of the Tribeca Film Institute, which uses Sloan money to hold panels, screenings, workshops and give out prizes and stipends for science-theme scripts. ''There can be a bit of bias in the film world, thinking that these are going to be very niche films that might not have the potential to break out and be mainstream.''
But she noted that crossover successes like ''A Beautiful Mind'' and ''Memento'' have both reached wider audiences and adhered to ''scientific truth.''
In addition to the Rosalind Franklin story, for which Ms. Ziegler received $25,000 to develop, scripts at last week's festival dealt with the race to invent television, a mathematical algorithm that brings a basketball team to a championship, and a swarm of deadly squid.
Plays need much less money than films do to get off the ground, so grants in the theater world go a long way. The $567,000 that Sloan gave Ensemble Studio this year paid not only for the staging of ''Photograph 51,'' but also for a second production at Theater J in Washington; the distribution of seed grants to other theaters; and Ensemble Studio's annual First Light festival , where new plays are workshopped and presented.
Writers, producers and theaters often develop many projects at the same time, Mr. Weber said, and offering a little money can push the science-oriented piece to the top of the pile.
That is what happened with Verne Thiessen, whose play ''Lenin's Embalmers,'' about the two scientists who were ordered by Stalin to embalm Lenin after his death in 1924, was staged last year at Ensemble Studio.
Mr. Thiessen attended a Sloan orientation panel a few years ago without a particular play in mind, but after listening to scientists who attended, he suddenly realized that an idea that had been ''noodling around in my head'' -- the embalmers story -- could qualify for a grant.
''The grants encourage writers to go outside their comfort zone,'' said William Carden, Ensemble Studio's artistic director. ''Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't.''
''If a writer ends up worrying more about the science than the story,'' he explained, ''then it won't work.''
Mr. Thiessen was successful, Mr. Carden said, because the scientific subject meshed with personal stories that the playwright had heard from his parents, who had emigrated from the Soviet Union to Canada.
To get Sloan financing, Mr. Thiessen said that the script's scientific content had to pass muster with the foundation, but that balancing the artistic and scientific demands ''was by no means the play's biggest problem; try doing a live embalming onstage.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ron Howard, left, and Akiva Goldsman, center, director and screenwriter of ''A Beautiful Mind,'' with Doron Weber of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Sloan commissioned Itamar Moses' play ''Completeness,'' right, with Karl Miller and Mandy Siegfried. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC MICHAEL JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SCOTT BRINEGAR) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); DNA (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); PHYSICS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); WRITERS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); FILM (74%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); THEATER (58%)

PERSON: RON HOWARD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011



196 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: Bluegrass Blues and Grays

BYLINE: AARON ASTOR


HIGHLIGHT: Why did both sides in the Civil War consider Kentucky the key to victory? 

 BODY:
"I hope to have God on my side, but I must have Kentucky," President Abraham Lincoln is reputed to have said in 1861. Whether or not he actually uttered these words, Lincoln made clear his views of his native state in a letter in the fall of that year. "I think to lose Kentucky is nearly the same as to lose the whole game. Kentucky gone, we can not hold Missouri, nor, as I think, Maryland. These all against us, and the job on our hands is too large for us. We would as well consent to separation at once, including the surrender of this capitol." 
What was so special about Kentucky? And where did the Bluegrass State figure during the secession crisis and the Civil War that followed?
Kentucky complicates the notion that the Civil War was a fight between the urban and industrial "North" and the cotton plantation "South." If anything, America was split into thirds in 1861, with a vast middle ground that straddled the line between free and slave states. This central region conjoined people in the lower Midwest with those of the Upper South, especially along the winding Ohio River, which served more as a cultural and economic crossroads than a border. 
In the mid-19th century no state symbolized the cultural, political and geographic heart of the nation more so than Kentucky. Settled mostly by Virginians in the late 18th century, the state had in turn become, by 1860, one of the most important population exporters in the expanding West. Thousands of Kentuckians, frustrated by complex and legally tangled land claims set out across the Ohio River for the Old Northwestern states of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois. Kentucky's Garrett Davis, one of the state's senators, noted, "Kentucky has almost peopled the northwestern states, especially Indiana and Illinois. I have no doubt that one fourth of the people of Indiana are either native-born Kentuckians or the sons and daughters of native-born Kentuckians. They are bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh." The result was to spread the state's complicated views on slavery and free soil across the western states and territories.
One such migrant was Thomas Lincoln, father of the future president, who moved first to southern Indiana and then to the growing Prairie State of Illinois. Other Kentuckians followed the Ohio and Mississippi river trade in the other direction, however, toward the expanding cotton belt in the Old Southwest. Western Kentucky's Jefferson Davis found fame and fortune only after he departed for Mississippi, as did many other future Confederates, like Albert Sidney Johnston and John Bell Hood, who set out for Texas. Staying home in the Bluegrass State were iconic defenders of the great American compromise tradition, including Henry Clay, John Crittenden and, for a period at least, the great Breckinridge dynasty. 
But for many politicians North and South, the state's real value lay in its land and resources. Both sides coveted the limestone-rich Bluegrass region around Lexington for its famous horse farms, a central part in any 19th-century army. The rapidly expanding city of Louisville on the Ohio River would provide critical sources of industry for any nation fortunate enough to access its ports. And then there was the Ohio River itself, a highway of water flowing more than 980 miles between Pittsburgh and the Mississippi River, with much of it marking the northern border of the Bluegrass State. 
No wonder, then, that the Confederate States lobbied hard for Kentucky to secede, and, when it didn't, repeatedly tried to conquer it. Southern leaders hoped that a Confederate Kentucky could cripple the industrial capacity of Cincinnati and serve as a base of a potential invasion of the north. As late as 1864 Confederate generals dreamed of launching an invasion from northern Kentucky through Ohio and on to Lake Erie, effectively splitting the United States in two. 
For Union military strategists, Kentucky figured not only as a key defensive bulwark against a Southern assault into the Midwest, but as the starting gate for an invasion of Tennessee and the heart of the Confederacy. The Louisville and Nashville Railroad and the twin Cumberland and Tennessee rivers would serve as key invasion routes into the Confederate heartland, and both traversed central and western Kentucky. Without Kentucky, the Union army would have found it far more difficult, if not impossible, to execute its famous Anaconda Plan to strangle the South. 
But what did Kentuckians themselves think of the rapidly unfolding civil war in April 1861? Kentuckians had long prided themselves on their political moderation, valorizing Henry Clay as the great national savior behind the Missouri Compromise of 1820 and the Great Compromise of 1850. This tradition reflected a conservative, pro-slavery Unionism widely shared among whites on both side of the slave-free border. Social, racial, economic and political order - slavery and Union - depended upon a spirit of national comity and mutual respect. The makeup of Kentucky society, with its growing urban centers of Louisville, Lexington, Paducah and the northern towns near Cincinnati, along with mixed labor relationships in the countryside where resident slaves, hired slaves, free laborers and family farmers often toiled together in the fields, reinforced this sentiment. Slow and natural change was fine for Kentuckians. Political or social revolution, which Civil War would undoubtedly portend, was not. 
The cataclysmic events of mid-April - the attack on Fort Sumter, guarded until April 12 by a Kentuckian, Maj. Robert Anderson, and Lincoln's subsequent call for 75,000 troops to "suppress the rebellion" on April 15 - yielded a cacophony of voices across the Bluegrass State. Speaking for Kentucky's pro-secession minority, Governor Beriah Magoffin declared, "I say, emphatically, Kentucky will furnish no troops for the wicked purpose of subduing her sister Southern States." 
While most Kentuckians agreed that war against the South was unwise - if not "wicked" - they likewise rejected repeated entreaties from Confederate secession commissioners to join the new republic. A well-respected resident of Bourbon County responded to the secessionist call by insisting that the people of Kentucky "will never submit to it. They love order, peace and freedom, and these priceless blessings can be secured only by sustaining the Union, the Constitution and the Laws." Underscoring the pro-slavery basis of white Kentuckians' sense of "order, peace and freedom" in the Union, the editor of the Nicholasville Democrat declared shortly after Fort Sumter, 
We do boldly assert that the Union party in Kentucky is as sound on the slavery question as the States Rights party can be. We believe that four-fifths of the slaves of the State are owned by Union men. Would it not be strange that the owners of this species of property should decide to deprive themselves of it to their own loss? There is no sort of affiliation whatever between Lincolnites and Unionists.
Indeed, many of the state's conservative Unionist bemoaned the "twin heresies" of abolitionism to the North and secessionism to the South that squeezed the state in early April 1861.
This was no mere war of words, however. Competing militias drilling in the streets of Louisville and Lexington suggested a menacing future: a fratricidal guerrilla struggle between and among Kentuckians. One of Lexington's major militia organizations, the Chasseurs, saw roughly half its members head into each of the rival armies when the war broke out. One militia leader, John Hunt Morgan, delivered his entire corps of Lexington Rifles into the Confederate army, though not until September 1861, when all hope of peace and neutrality within Kentucky finally collapsed. 
Still, to most Kentuckians, the Union was the best protector of the slave-based social order. They trusted their native-born president to protect the peculiar institution, counting on the moral influence of the Lexington-based Todd family and Lincoln's longstanding ties to eminent Kentuckians like Joseph Holt and Joshua Speed to preserve both slavery and Union. By May 20, the Kentucky legislature agreed to declare for neutrality, causing one analyst to quip that there were now three distinct republics: the United States of America, the Confederate States of America and the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
But Kentucky's official neutrality was unsustainable. Both sides repeatedly violated its tenets, with secretive recruiting parties and unofficial trade violations rankling partisans across the state. Then, in September 1861, Confederate Gen. Leonidas Polk made the fateful decision to invade the far southwestern part of the state in hopes of securing the bluffs over the Mississippi River. Almost immediately, Kentuckians responded with rage to the Confederate invasion, and little-known Brig. Gen. Ulysses Simpson Grant promptly invaded Paducah in response. The state legislature quickly affirmed its official ties with the Union, thus cementing all of the border states for Lincoln. 
Nevertheless, the relationship between Kentucky and the Union would prove to be a deeply troubled one. Beginning in late 1861, a three-part struggle ensued between white conservative Unionists, secessionist rebels against that Union, and slaves in rebellion against the conservative nature of that Union. White Kentuckians bitterly rejected Lincoln's moves toward emancipation and black soldier enlistment. And nearly all white Kentuckians resented the presence of federal troops on Kentucky soil, especially since the state was nominally loyal to the Union. 
Kentucky may have proven a key link in the North's chain of victory, but it repeatedly proved to be the most "southern" of the Union states, both during and after the war; not for nothing do historians say that Kentucky "waited until after the war to secede." It refused to free its slaves until ratification of the 13th Amendment, eight months after Appomattox; amazingly, it would not add its own official support for and ratification of the amendment until 1976. 
Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook.
Sources: Paris Western Citizen newspaper, May 10, 1861 and June 28, 1861; E. Merton Coulter, "Civil War and Readjustment in Kentucky"; Lowell Harrison, "Lincoln of Kentucky"; Lincoln to Orville Browning, letter, September 22, 1861; Charles Dew, "Apostles of Disunion."
Aaron Astor is an assistant professor of history at Maryville College in Maryville, Tenn. He is the author of the forthcoming book "Rebels on the Border: Civil War, Emancipation and the Reconstruction of Kentucky and Missouri."

        
Lincoln, Douglass and the 'Double-Tongued Document'
        
Henry Wise's Pistol
        
With Friends Like These ...
        
The Census of Doom
        
The Adams Family

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SLAVERY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); EXPORT TRADE (64%) abraham lincoln; Kentucky; Slavery; the civil war; Lincoln, Abraham; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Disunion

PERSON: Lincoln, Abraham

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); WEST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Kentucky

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



197 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman, Ex-Envoy to China, Tests Political Waters With Speech

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: A week after resigning his post as ambassador to China, Jon M. Huntsman Jr. made his debut on the American political stage here on Saturday in South Carolina and defended his service in the Obama administration as he began exploring whether to join the Republican presidential race. 

 BODY:
COLUMBIA, S.C. - A week after resigning his post as ambassador to China, Jon M. Huntsman Jr. made his debut on the American political stage here on Saturday and defended his service in the Obama administration as he began exploring whether to join the Republican presidential race.
A commencement speech at the University of South Carolina provided a backdrop for Mr. Huntsman to introduce himself as a leader who rose above partisanship when answering President Obama's call to represent the United States in Beijing. He said public service was a central tenet of patriotism.
"Work to keep America great. Serve her, if asked," Mr. Huntsman said. "I was - by a president of a different political party. But in the end, while we might not all be of one party, we are all part of one nation, a nation that needs your generational gift of energy and confidence."
Mr. Huntsman did not directly mention that he was taking steps to run against Mr. Obama, who sent him to China two years ago. But a three-day visit to South Carolina, which holds one of the first primary elections of the presidential campaign, illustrated that he is serious about the prospect of joining the Republican nominating contest.
"There's always room for a new voice," Mr. Huntsman said, pausing for a moment as he breezed through a whirlwind of meetings with Republicans here. "To the extent that people are concerned about where we are - in terms of the economy and our relative position abroad - absolutely, people are looking for a new set of eyeballs."
Mr. Huntsman, who served as governor of Utah for five years, is one of several possible new entrants in a Republican campaign that has been under way for months but remains unusually unsettled. He is using college appearances - his speech here Saturday morning before 1,150 graduates of the College of Arts and Sciences, followed by a similar address on May 21 in New Hampshire - to signal his intention to run as a different type of candidate.
Mr. Huntsman, 51, harked back to the days of his youth - long hair, skinny jeans and a member of a rock band called Wizard - to present himself as a man who could appeal to a new generation of voters. The speech provided an opportunity, his advisers said, to introduce himself as a person and not simply a politician.
He spoke in an optimistic tone and even briefly translated the college's traditional Gamecock chant - "Go, fight, win!" - into Mandarin Chinese. But he also confronted the serious side of the United States' relationship with China.
"I know there are many in China who think their time has come - that America's best days are over. And there are probably some in this country who have lost confidence and think that China is the next best thing," Mr. Huntsman said. "But these people aren't seeing things from my earlier vantage point of 10,000 miles away. The real test of a nation is not how well it does when times are great, but how well it does when times are tough."
The weekend visit offered a window into his strategy. Like Mitt Romney, a Republican presidential candidate and former governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Huntsman is a Mormon. Questions about Mr. Romney's religion complicated his efforts during his first presidential campaign here four years ago. For his part, Mr. Huntsman is scheduled to attend a nondenominational service on Sunday at Seacoast Church near Charleston.
Representative Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina who is a member of the church, said he was eager to meet Mr. Huntsman and discuss his record as governor of Utah and his time as ambassador to China.
"You have to explain it a little bit and answer why you would be chosen by this president," Mr. Scott said in an interview. "This president is seen by most of us conservatives as very liberal, so you would like to know what they have in common. But in the end I don't see it as something that negates his candidacy."
Mr. Scott said questions may also be raised about Mr. Huntsman's religious traditions, but he added, "We will get to the issues of faith later, but at this point, I need to sit down and see what he's made of."
As ambassador to China and therefore an employee of the federal government, Mr. Huntsman was prohibited from engaging in political activities. But a team of Republican strategists established a campaign-in-waiting on his behalf - the fruits of which were on display here this weekend - as he was surrounded by alumni of Senator John McCain's presidential campaigns in 2000 and 2008.
While Mr. Huntsman did not declare his presidential intentions, he did weigh in on a prickly and parochial South Carolina issue: barbecue sauce.
When asked by a local reporter what was on his weekend agenda, Mr. Huntsman replied: "Barbecue. Mustard-based barbecue." It was unclear whether aficionados of the other homegrown varieties - mixed with vinegar or tomato, but not both - would be turned off by the fact that he took sides in one of the state's rivalries.
On his introductory tour, it was clear that Mr. Huntsman was a man of many titles. In the commencement program, he was introduced as "respected public servant, business executive, governor and ambassador." Asked how he preferred to be addressed, he said: "Since I'm called everything at home, you can call me anything. But probably Jon is best."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOVERNORS (70%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (58%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



198 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 7, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Aftermath

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: The latest political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times Pakistan remains a touchy subject around the White House, as administration officials demand that the country release the identities of some of its top intelligence operatives. United States officials are hoping for cooperation to determine whether someone in the Pakistani intelligence agency had contact with Osama bin Laden or his agents in the years before Sunday's raid that led to the death of the leader of Al Qaeda. But an article reported by several Times journalists explains that the White House has been careful to make demands without making accusations, because the relationship with Pakistan is viewed as too crucial to risk a wholesale break even if it turns out that past or present Pakistani intelligence officials did know of Bin Laden's whereabouts. A missile strike in Yemen from an American military drone on Thursday was aimed at killing Anwar al-Awlaki,a radical American-born cleric, although the attack does not appear to have been successful. It was the first American strike in Yemen using a drone since 2002, and was part of a clandestine Pentagon program to hunt Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, Mark Mazzetti reports. President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. thanked the shadowy heroes of the raid that killed Bin Laden on behalf of a country that would likely never even learn their names. The two dozen Navy Seal commandos who stormed the fortified compound in Pakistan where Bin Laden was hiding were thanked behind closed doors for what the president called "a job well done," describing it as one of the greatest military and intelligence operations in American history. He later extended the gratitude to 2,300 soldiers at Fort Campbell in Kentucky, many of whom had just returned from their own deployments to Afghanistan. Nothing is safe anymore when it comes to Congressional spending cuts, including federal farm subsidies, which have long been protected by powerful political interests. Several factors have come together to undercut the backing for the farm programs, including bipartisan support for the concession that cuts to these programs are an essential part of the broader attack on the federal deficit. When it comes to farm subsidies, conservatives decry them as intrusions into the free market, liberals denounce them for encouraging environmentally harmful over-farming and both sides see them as a form of corporate welfare, Jennifer Steinhauer reports.Weekly Addresses While much of the media is focused on details of Bin Laden's death, Mr. Obama has other priorities that he wants the public to know he hasn't forgotten about. "So although our economy hasn't been the focus of the news this week, not a day that goes by that I'm not focused on your jobs, your hopes and your dreams," he said in his weekly address. Speaking from the Allison Transmissions plant in Indianapolis, he praised clean-energy companies like Allison for providing "jobs of the future" and playing a key part in the ultimate solution to high gas prices. "That means investing in clean, alternative sources of energy, like advanced biofuels and natural gas," he said. "Other countries know this, and they're going all in to invest in clean energy technologies and clean energy jobs. But I don't want other countries to win the competition for these technologies and these jobs. I want America to win that competition. I want America to win the future." Senator Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, did the honors this week by delivering his party's weekly address and asking members to help congratulate the president for swift action that led to the killing of Bin Laden. However, he said he did not believe that the mission in Afghanistan was quite over yet, urging a continued military presence in the country. "The men and women of the armed services have sacrificed so much already in the war on terror. And as much as we all wish it could be ended as suddenly and as permanently as the career of bin Laden, the war goes on, and it still demands our attention and our commitment to victory," he said. Mr. Brown argued for more time to help prepare Afghan security forces to protect their people and ensure that the country does not once again become a sanctuary for terrorists. Mr. Brown is a lieutenant colonel in his state's Army National Guard, and he has asked to do his training in Afghanistan this year.Around the Web Former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York told a crowd of Republican lawyers that his major goal is to elect a Republican in 2012, and if he just so happens to be that Republican, then "I can probably be talked into doing it or convince myself to do it," he said.Happenings around Washington A ceremony will be held to add five servicemen to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, bringing the total number of names to 58,272. Wounded veterans will play an exhibition softball game against the Walter Reed Warriors Softball team. This will be the first time that a team of amputees who were treated at Walter Reed Army Medical Center will play against the medical and support staff that provided their care there. The Smithsonian Institution will host the fifth annual Garden Fest on Saturday to celebrate the American garden experience with live music and family activities. The event will take place at the Enid A. Haupt Garden by the Smithsonian Castle.

        
The Early Word: Backtracking
        
The Early Word: No Bin Laden Photos, but Thousands of Words
        
The Early Word: Now What?
        
The Weekend Word: If You Can't Beat 'Em...
        
The Early Word: Low Point

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLITICS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); HISTORY (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (67%); CONSERVATISM (67%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (62%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); YEMEN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



199 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: THE CHATTER

 BODY:
''Pop goes the bubble.'' Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research , a consulting firm, after commodities prices fell sharply last Thursday, led by the steepest drop in oil prices since the fall of 2008. 
''Ox don't need spare parts, and they don't run on fossil fuels.'' Rich Ciotola, a farmer in the Berkshires who used a team of oxen rather than machinery to help clear his pasture of fallen logs.
''Whether the test is fairness or efficiency, the U.S. system gets really low marks.'' Michelle Hanlon, an M.I.T. professor, on the tax system. She says the country needs to completely revamp the way it taxes corporations.
''There is a pent-up need for people to meet face to face again.'' Mark Ziegler, a corporate travel manager for a California technology company. Business travel is on an upswing after companies made cuts to their travel budgets during the recession.
''Unconventional gas will be a game- changer throughout Europe.'' James Hill, vice president at BNK Petroleum, which has used fracking to extract natural gas from shale in the United States and is now expanding in Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (72%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (67%)

COMPANY: BNK PETROLEUM INC (55%)

TICKER: BKX (TSX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011



200 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Dealing With Higher Costs

BYLINE: By MARYANN HAGGERTY

 BODY:
THE increased cost of F.H.A. mortgages has shifted the math a bit for would-be borrowers.
A home buyer with a down payment of less than 20 percent generally has to pay up in some other way to ensure that lenders are protected against default. (This requirement slipped during the housing boom; see ''financial crisis.'')
The most popular low-down-payment loans have been those insured by the Federal Housing Administration. Borrowers can make down payments as low as 3.5 percent; they pay an upfront fee (often rolled into the loan) and a monthly premium. An alternative is private mortgage insurance, or P.M.I., available to those who put down at least 5 percent. 
As the name implies, the insurance is provided by a private company rather than the government. Premiums can be paid up front, each month, or in a mix. The amount of the premium drops as the size of the down payment rises. Use of these loans has fallen off sharply in recent years as the P.M.I. companies tightened standards and F.H.A. gained popularity.
Effective on April 18, F.H.A.'s annual premium on a 30-year loan rose to 1.1 or 1.15 percent of the loan value, up from 0.85 or 0.9 percent. (The higher rates are for down payments below 5 percent.) On a $400,000 loan with the minimum down payment, that's $83 more per month.
The monthly fee is in addition to the up-front premium, equal to 1 percent of the loan value. Which loan to go with may depend on the answer to a question: ''how long is it going to take to recoup that 1 percent up front?'' said Matt Hackett, an underwriting manager at Equity Now, a direct mortgage lender based in New York.
In the first quarter, 17.7 percent of new loans were F.H.A., according to Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry data provider, while P.M.I. had a 5.4 percent market share. Applications for F.H.A. loans jumped 20 percent in the month preceding the price increase, then tumbled when it went into effect, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
In addition to lower minimum down-payment requirements, F.H.A. has laxer rules for credit scores and debt-to-income ratios. Right now, it also has lower interest rates, said Thatcher Zuse, the president of Sound Mortgage, a lender and broker in Guilford, Conn. ''Almost as a rule, as the rates stand right now, the less equity you're putting down, the better the F.H.A. deal becomes.''
Mr. Zuse ran the numbers for two buyers able to put 5 percent down. For a buyer with a 780 credit score, the cost difference between F.H.A. and P.M.I. was negligible, but a buyer with a 650 score could save about $200 a month on a $400,000 F.H.A. loan.
There are circumstances peculiar to the New York area that could push a borrower to F.H.A., said Robert Donovan, a Bank of America senior vice president and regional sales executive. For one thing, the region has a high concentration of two- to four-unit homes, popular with buyers who want to live in one apartment while renting out another. Loans in such cases are treated much more liberally by F.H.A., he said.
The same goes for new-construction condominiums of any size: until more than half a project is sold, conventional loans may not be an option. F.H.A.-backed loans are available even if as little as 30 percent of the project is sold, Mr. Donovan said.
In the broadest terms, for someone with no special circumstances, great credit and a more-than-minimum down payment -- say, 10 or 15 percent -- P.M.I. may turn out to be the better deal. Someone with weaker credit or less cash may find F.H.A. works better.
To generalize, ''if you qualify for P.M.I.,'' Mr. Hackett said, ''you should usually choose the P.M.I., because it is going to be less.''
Circumstances vary, though, so ask any lender to produce a written comparison, said Michael Moskowitz, the president of Equity Now, ''just to keep the lender honest.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

 
