

601 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Prestige Can't Halt Downfall Of Theater

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- When Bartlett Sher handpicked Kate Whoriskey to succeed him as artistic director of Intiman Theater here in 2009, he appeared to be giving her a dream job. Under Mr. Sher, Intiman had become one of the country's most prestigious theaters, nurturing a growing audience while basking in the reflected glow of Mr. Sher's increasing fame as a freelance director of operas and musicals, including an acclaimed Broadway revival of ''South Pacific.'' For Ms. Whoriskey, then 38 and best known for directing Lynn Nottage's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, ''Ruined,'' Intiman seemed like the perfect artistic home.
But this November, only months after she officially took over, Ms. Whoriskey received some stunning news: Intiman was virtually broke, with debt totaling almost $2.3 million. On April 16, after several months of scrambling to raise money, and just weeks after opening the first play of the season, the board of trustees voted to close the theater and lay off the entire staff, including Ms. Whoriskey. The trustees hope to reopen next year, but almost certainly with a reduced season -- and probably without Ms. Whoriskey. 
Ms. Whoriskey, who has since moved back to New York, said in a recent interview that the whole experience had been painful. ''I've never been in a position where I've had to tell so many people that they don't have work,'' she said.
Intiman's implosion has stunned the Seattle theater community, and observers have been picking through the ashes to make sense of its downfall. Did it rely too much on Mr. Sher's stardom and charisma? Was he too absent? Had a former managing director hidden the financial problems, as the board initially argued -- or had the board simply ignored them?
Susan Trapnell, a consultant whom the trustees hired in March to try to turn the situation around, blamed Intiman's problems on a breakdown in communication among the 24-member board; Ms. Whoriskey; and the managing director, Brian Colburn, who often weren't in the same place during the crucial months.
When those three components of a theater ''are really tied at the hip, then they can solve everything,'' Ms. Trapnell said. But when the relationship frays, things fall apart, and ''everybody looks bad.''
Everybody also starts pointing fingers, which has happened here, with the board not only accusing Mr. Colburn of misleading them but also suggesting that Mr. Sher's artistic vision stretched the theater too far. The result is a cauldron of bad feelings that may pose as great a hurdle to Intiman as its lack of money.
One clear lesson emerges from Intiman's troubles: Critical success is no guarantee of a theater's long-term viability. In January, when Rocco Landesman, chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, said that, given downward trends in subscription audiences, some theater companies might have to close, he probably wasn't thinking of places like Intiman, which won a 2006 Tony Award for outstanding regional theater. And yet Intiman could be one of the first major regional theaters to prove him right. Founded in 1972 by a director with a taste for Strindberg and Ibsen, Intiman grew from scrappy beginnings to become a rival to this city's older and more established companies, Seattle Repertory Theater and A Contemporary Theater, or ACT. It moved in 1987 to its current 446-seat home, across the street from Seattle Rep. But true to its name -- which means ''intimate'' in Swedish -- it remained low-key and familial, a place where patrons hung their coats in a communal closet rather than checking them as they did at the more formal Rep.
Under Mr. Sher, who arrived in 2000, Intiman's reputation flourished. Subscriptions increased almost 12 percent from 2002 to 2009, while declining at many theaters around the country. In 2003, Mr. Sher directed the world premiere of the musical ''The Light in the Piazza'' at Intiman, a co-production with the Goodman Theater of Chicago. In 2005 the show went to Lincoln Center Theater, where it ran for more than a year and won six Tony Awards. Its success brought Mr. Sher more directing jobs, including productions at the Metropolitan Opera and ''South Pacific,'' for which he won a Tony in 2008.
Even while Mr. Sher and Intiman were enjoying the national spotlight, however, the theater was struggling to make ends meet. Laura Penn, Intiman's managing director from 1994 to 2008, said Intiman had never had the deep-pocketed supporters that Seattle Rep did. She and Mr. Sher gradually increased the annual budget, to $6 million from $4.5 million, hoping that critical success would attract a new pool of donors. It didn't.
By 2007, Mr. Sher's freelance directing was taking him away from Seattle for months at a time. Ms. Penn said his absences didn't affect the theater, partly because of her own long tenure there. But in March 2008 she left Intiman to take a job in New York as the executive director of the Stage Directors and Choreographers Society, leaving something of a leadership vacuum. Mr. Sher was itching to move on, but agreed to stay through the 2009 season. Ms. Penn's replacement, Mr. Colburn, officially started in November 2008, but didn't move to Seattle until early 2009.
Ms. Whoriskey had never run a theater when Mr. Sher picked her to replace him in June 2009. Still, he said in an interview in March, he believed he was passing on to her ''a much more stable theater than I walked into.''
But despite a major fund-raising campaign in 2007 it was also a theater in debt, with little cushion to weather any difficulties. By April 2009, Intiman had a maxed-out $900,000 line of credit and had borrowed $625,000 from its modest endowment.
Mr. Colburn, who resigned on Nov. 1, has generally declined to speak for the record since he left, and did so again when contacted last week.
But there is no doubt that the new team faced immediate challenges. Mr. Sher, who had originally planned to remain as a co-artistic director through the 2010 season, Ms. Whoriskey's first, instead left in March 2010. (Ms. Whoriskey, meanwhile, had two commitments elsewhere during that period, directing ''The Miracle Worker'' on Broadway and an opera in Paris.) Subscriptions for the 2010 season had fallen 30 percent from the year before, although Ms. Whoriskey brought in ''Ruined,'' which she had directed in New York and Chicago, a production that earned rave reviews and did well in single-ticket sales.
Subscribers weren't the only ones to walk away after Mr. Sher departed. About a third of Intiman's board of trustees left, some because of the recession and some because they had been on the board primarily because of their relationships to the previous leadership team.
In recent interviews several trustees who remained said they did not know how deep the theater's financial hole was until Mr. Colburn resigned. They said the financial statements he showed them were less clear than the ones Ms. Penn had used, and that, between August and November 2010, Mr. Colburn canceled several finance committee meetings.
His excuses were ''all plausible,'' said Bruce A. Bradburn, the board president. ''We had no reason at that point to doubt'' him.
In February, Intiman went public with an emergency fund-raising campaign, just before the first show of its season, a reinterpretation of Arthur Miller's ''All My Sons,'' with a largely African-American cast, began rehearsals. A few days after the show opened, on March 25, the board hired Ms. Trapnell, a respected local arts leader who had also been called in to save ACT during a similar crisis in 2003.
On March 31, the board said that the campaign was going well and that Intiman would move forward with the season. But when Ms. Trapnell looked at the numbers, she said, she quickly decided the board was being too sanguine. With actors about to arrive to rehearse the next production, she worried that the theater would not be able to pay them through the run. On April 15 she advised the board to close the theater, to give it time to create a turnaround plan. The next day the board voted to do so, and on April 19 Intiman's three dozen employees were laid off. While Ms. Whoriskey has refrained from criticizing the board, Mr. Sher has not. He described it as negligent while problems mounted and said it bungled the handling of the crisis. ''Unless the board really steps back and deeply analyzes its own behavior,'' it's going to be ''a very hard road,'' he said.
Meanwhile, some trustees seem to feel, in retrospect, that their devotion to Mr. Sher was part of the problem.
''We liked his aesthetic, and we wanted to put it on, and we would stretch and stretch,'' Susan J. Leavitt, a trustee, said in an interview in March. Such comments have, in turn, angered Mr. Sher further.
Ms. Trapnell, who is continuing to work with the board part-time as it develops a plan to reopen the theater, pointed out that ACT had made a similar decision during its crisis in 2003. After laying off its staff and going dark for six months, the theater reopened. Today ACT is thriving, with a revamped mission that includes collaborating with local artists and offering a wide range of fare, from Pinter to burlesque.
''I think the only hope is you stop and you focus,'' she said, ''otherwise, you just never get your head up far enough to think.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Intiman Theater in Seattle. Left, Brian Colburn, its former managing director. Center, Kate Whoriskey and Bartlett Sher
Ms. Whoriskey succeeded Mr. Sher as artistic director. Right, Susan Trapnell was hired to turn the theater around. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KEN LAMBERT/THE SEATTLE TIMES)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



602 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ASKED AND ANSWERED JOHN SZERLAG; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Scraping and Cutting To Find $22 Million

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
Troy, Mich., a Detroit suburb where the median family income is more than $90,000, may be one of the more unlikely American cities to find itself in fiscal distress. On paper, it is difficult to understand how this city of 80,000 is struggling: only about 2 percent of its families live below the poverty line; 92 percent of its population has a high school diploma; about half of its adults have at least a bachelor's degree; it is one of the safest cities in the country; and the median value of a house is more than $200,000. Still, Troy's wealth has proved poor inoculation against the financial problems of cities and states across the country. John Szerlag, Troy's city manager, discusses.
Q. How has your well-off city found itself in such straits? 
A. We have the lowest millage rate [Note: essentially, a property tax] in the area. Troy cannot get a millage passed. The problem is there are an inordinate number of tax fighters here in Troy.
Q. The city says it has to find $22 million in cuts. Where will the money come from?
A. We've cut one-third of our work force. We had to totally privatize our Buildings Department and lay off employees, including inspectors. We will be reducing the size of the Police Department. In finance and administration we've made so many cuts we've had to cross-train people in order to be sustainable. We had to lay off people in the Engineering Department. We've made cuts in the Planning Department. We've reduced the number of police vehicles. We've eliminated animal control. We bid out the operations of our two 18-hole golf courses. All general fund subsidies have been cut to the community center. This is not fun for a manager to do, but I have to look for the most cost-effective ways to do things. My marching orders are to get 10 percent in employee cost reductions. We have garnered concessions from four of the six unions. I took a permanent 5 percent pay cut a year ago. [Note: His salary was reduced to $133,000 from $140,000.]
Q. What about the town's library?
A. We have slated the closure of the library. We have zero dollars budgeted for the library after July 1. A dedicated millage fund for the library failed narrowly in November. It would have come to about $100 per family. We've already stopped subscriptions. I think a library is the everyman's university. I think a lot of people who can't afford a computer use the library, and a lot of times nowadays the only way to apply for a job is through a computer. A library is also an economic development tool. When you try to attract a business you want your municipality to be a destination point. You don't want it to be a place where people only live and sleep. A library gives a sense of community.
Q. The city promotes itself as being one of the safest cities in America. Will fewer police officers mean more crime?
A. We are the safest city in Michigan. I don't know what will happen, so I can't be an alarmist. But there are certainly things you can't quantify. It's often what doesn't happen that tells you how things are going. Right now, bad guys stay out because they know they're going to get caught. I do believe there will be an adverse impact on crime. We are essentially going back to 1978 levels, and we have grown a lot since then.
Q. Detroit is 10 miles and worlds away from Troy. Do you feel any different about its struggles?
A. It makes me empathize with Detroit more. I have never had to manage a city before where the revenue line was declining. I have personally had to lay off about 140 people. It's not fun.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); FAMILY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); POVERTY RATES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CLOSINGS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); HOME PRICES (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (65%); GOLF (63%); LIBRARIES (60%); ANIMAL CONTROL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



603 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: In Quest to Restore Quail Populations, Trying to Change the Landscape

BYLINE: By JAMES CARD

 BODY:
PIGGOTT, Ark. -- During his periodic stays in this small town in the Arkansas delta, Ernest Hemingway was looked upon by the locals as something of a proto-hippy with his shabby clothes, unshaven face and artistic disposition. He was once mistaken for a hobo. Children taunted him and pelted him with rocks. Obliged to visit his in-laws' home in Piggott, Hemingway made the most of it and became a bird-hunting bum.
Pauline Pfeiffer became Hemingway's second wife in 1927 and her brother Karl became his quail hunting partner.
''Of course he came because Pauline would come back to see her parents, but the one thing he liked was the quail hunting here,'' said Don Roeder, who grew up going to church with the Pfeiffer family and is a trustee of the Matilda and Karl Pfeiffer Foundation. 
''One of the stories that Mr. Pfeiffer would tell me was if he killed more quail than Ernest had, they had to stay out there until Ernest had killed as many as Karl had.''
Then, spreading his arms wide, Roeder said, ''Hemingway had an ego like this.''
Roeder said that during the time when Hemingway visited, quail were just about everywhere, but that began to change.
''When I first came back here out of the service, I could go out here hunting with friends and we could shoot quail, but they were going away then, and now you rarely hear a quail,'' he said.
The mating call of the bobwhite quail provides the bird its name, a ringing three-count whistle: bob-bob-white. It is a sound many baby boomers have heard while growing up and one their children might have heard. But it is one their grandchildren may never hear. In many parts of their range -- from New England to the Dakotas to Texas -- bobwhites have disappeared and the sport of quail hunting has fallen on hard times.
Quail hunting has been both aristocratic and egalitarian. It is a sport of Southern plantation gentry who ride walking horses with bespoke double guns in their scabbards and have pedigreed pointing dogs racing across the fields before them. It is also the sport of the farm kid armed with a dad's old shotgun and a rangy mutt for a hunting companion. Both types of hunters have equally satisfying hunts, but these days social standing does not matter. Everyone is quail-poor. Bobwhite quail are one of the most studied wildlife species in the United States, yet conservationists have yet to halt the declining populations.
Biologists agree that overhunting is not the issue. Quail are prolific breeders but have a short lifespan. Hunting seasons could be eliminated and still approximately 90 percent of the quail would be dead within the year. Other predators, like raptors, coyotes or raccoons, are also not the reason for their decline, although many hunters point the finger at them.
Don McKenzie is in charge of the National Bobwhite Conservation Initiative, a team of 25 state fish and wildlife agencies and conservation groups. The goal of the group, formed in 2002, is to get wild quail populations to what they were in 1980.
It is one of the most difficult large-scale wildlife restoration projects. Canada geese, whitetail deer and wild turkeys -- all at one time low in numbers -- have become so populous that they spill into the suburbs, but bringing back bobwhite populations is a struggling enterprise.
''One of the difficult parts of quail restoration is we have to restore suitable habitat at a landscape scale,'' McKenzie said. ''When you compare that with deer and turkey restoration, the habitat was already suitable. It was a matter of catching remaining wild animals in places where they were and moving them to places where they weren't and protecting them until they took care of themselves. It's still a challenge, but nothing compared to what we face now with bobwhites.''
The reason restoring bobwhite quail is so difficult is because it involves changing the nation's manipulated rural landscape. According to McKenzie, exotic fescue, Bahia grass and Bermuda grass took hold across the United States in the 1940s. These carpetlike grasses were planted to promote better cattle grazing and edged out the native warm-season grasses that are conducive to good quail habitat. The native grasses grow in clumps, which allow the quail to hide, move and forage and are essential to their survival.
With pastures covered with invasive exotic grasses, the quail found cover along brushy fencerows and field edges, but by the 1970s modern agricultural practices that maximized every inch of soil devoured these small sanctuaries and left quail with few hideouts.
Wildlife biologists have known about this connection between warm-season grasses and quail habitat, and many landowners have tried to create an oasis for quail on their property by planting a paradise of native plants. Yet the quail population never reached the old numbers.
''Resident game bird conservation professionals have been telling landowners this for 50 years: all you need to do is some small-scale stuff on your place and you'll have birds and everything will be fine,'' McKenzie said. ''Well, after 50 years of doing that, it certainly doesn't work.''
The problem is that the islands of prime quail habitat -- restored or naturally occurring -- are not connected to one another to create larger plots of good habitat where quail have greater odds of survival.
''We have to come up with bigger pieces of landscape that are managed in common, and have connections with other pieces of well-managed landscape where there are sustainable populations of birds,'' McKenzie said. ''We must make it happen by the millions of acres instead of by the tens of acres.''
Jeff Parrish, executive director of Freedom to Roam, a coalition of organizations working to conserve wildlife corridors, said, ''Bobwhite quail are like a crucible for what the future of wildlife is going to look like in North America.
''There's a new coal mine we're living in and it's one that is really fragmented,'' he said. ''The quail are telling us a story that we never thought we'd hear, which is the world's gotten chopped up and the only way we can protect those species is to connect them more.''
Dan Petit begins all of his bobwhite quail discussions with the same story: he grew up in northern Ohio and last heard a quail call there as a teenager in 1978. He is the director of bird conservation for the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, which supports the quail restoration initiative.
''It's easy to look into your crystal ball in 2011 and see exactly where the quail are headed,'' Petit said. ''Look at lesser prairie chickens. In your grandpa's day, there were a million of them out there. Now there are 40,000. They just need that connectivity.
''We think that converting pastures of cool-season grasses into warm-season grasses is economically very palatable to those individuals that make a living off of those grasses. This does not require a stimulus bill or anything like that.''
McKenzie bemoaned that a generation of Southerners is growing up without quail hunting.
''In my family,'' he said, ''the culture of quail hunting is as much part of our lives as barbecue, fried catfish and SEC football. It's a part of life, a part of growing up and it's part of what being from the South is all about.''
Although Hemingway worked on different stories while visiting his in-laws, only one story, ''A Day's Wait,'' can be traced to a true experience that happened in Piggott, and it includes a quail hunting scene. He writes of the quail ''coming out while you were poised unsteadily on the icy, springy brush they made difficult shooting and I killed two, missed five, and started back pleased to have found a covey close to the house and happy there were so many left to find on another day.''
Maybe that was why he chose to stay in Piggott and chase bobwhites when the film adaptation of his novel ''A Farewell to Arms'' made its premiere on Broadway in 1932.
Unlike the hunters of Hemingway's generation and the generation after, the hunters of today are lucky to see a covey of quail, and they are uncertain there will be many left.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Quail hunting once was a popular pastime for all, but the species has continued to disappear. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATILDA & KARL PFEIFFER MUSEUM & STUDY CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT HUNTING (90%); BIRDS (89%); MAMMALS (86%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); HORSES (71%); DOGS (65%); BABY BOOMERS (63%); BIOLOGY (62%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



604 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Credit Rating Crackdown In New Rules From S.E.C.

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
6:02 p.m. Updated
Securities regulators are out to tame the credit rating agencies, crucial Wall Street players at the center of the financial crisis.
The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed sweeping new rules on Wednesday to overhaul the rating business - regulations that would force tougher internal controls, potentially curb conflicts of interest and even mandate that the agencies periodically test the competence of their employees.
''These rules are intended to help investors and other users of credit ratings better understand and assess the ratings,'' Mary L. Schapiro, chairwoman of the S.E.C., said at a public meeting on Wednesday. ''It is a massive proposal,'' she said of the plan, which spans more than 500 pages. 
The S.E.C.'s five commissioners unanimously agreed to advance the proposals, which are now open for public comment for 60 days.
The agency's Republican commissioners indicated, however, that they would push for some changes. The proposals ''could be life threatening'' to small rating agencies,'' Kathleen L. Casey, a Republican commissioner, said at the public meeting.
A rating agency, for instance, would have to take on the costs of periodically administering performance exams that would ''test its credit analysts on the credit rating procedures and methodologies it uses,'' according to a summary of the proposal.
The proposals stem from the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial overhaul law enacted last year. The S.E.C. has already proposed new policies under Dodd-Frank that would strip references to credit ratings from rules that govern securities offerings.
The rating agencies in recent years became a target in Washington, as regulators and lawmakers blamed them for feeding the mortgage bubble by awarding top grades to bonds backed by subprime mortgages. The investments later soured, driving the economy to the brink.
A Congressional panel that chronicled the crisis called the largest rating agencies - Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings - ''essential cogs in the wheel of financial destruction.''
The problems, critics say, stem from an inherent conflict of interest plaguing the rating agencies' business model.
Banks and corporations that issue debt must pay the rating agencies to assign their bonds a letter grade. In the lead-up to the crisis, the rating agencies had a heavy hand in the mortgage bond business, as they advised big banks how to earn a top triple-A grade. In a quest for profits, the critics say, the agencies compromised the integrity of their ratings.
The S.E.C.'s proposal intends to mitigate some of those conflicts, which have long hurt the industry's reputation.
The plan would prohibit analysts from issuing a rating if they also marketed their rating agency's products or services. Small rating agencies can apply for an exemption from this rule.
The proposal also takes aim at the revolving door between the rating agencies and Wall Street firms that seek the grades.
Under the plan, the rating agencies would have to examine whether their former analysts awarded overly rosy ratings to a firm that later hired that person. In such cases, the rating agencies would have to ''promptly determine whether the credit rating must be revised.''
Ms. Casey said that this proposal ''threatened to cross the line'' into dictating the substance of credit ratings. ''I am concerned that this is such a slippery slope,'' she said.
Still, the proposals do not go as far as some had expected.
In the final days of negotiations over Dodd-Frank, lawmakers stopped short of eliminating the so-called issuer-pays model that causes potential conflicts of interest. Instead, lawmakers opted for a compromise. The S.E.C. must now study whether to create an independent body that will randomly assign ratings to different agencies.
The rating agencies fiercely oppose this plan, among other Dodd-Frank rules. Some rating agencies also may single out an S.E.C. proposal that would require the industry to disclose how well its ratings have performed over time.
''One significant concern is whether the S.E.C. will follow up on this rule-making by actively pushing back at rating agencies if these attempts at mandating greater rating agency transparency turn out to produce opaque or formalistic disclosures in practice,'' said Jeffrey Manns, a professor at George Washington University law school, who is an expert in credit rating agencies.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); SECURITIES LAW (91%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); BONDS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



605 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Bias Case May Pose A Problem For Bidder

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
In 2000, the federal agency charged with monitoring workplace discrimination ended its investigation of Eagle Global Logistics, a Texas freight company.
Its findings were troubling and lengthy:
Eagle, run by a former college pitcher named Jim Crane, had failed to promote blacks, Hispanics and women into managerial positions, the agency, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission found. Eagle had also demoted women from managerial positions, maintained a hostile workplace, paid blacks, Hispanics and women less than male and white counterparts, and shredded important documents, the agency said.
The report cited an accusation that Crane told his managers not to hire blacks because ''once you hire blacks, you can never fire them.'' Witnesses said Crane did not permit Eagle to advertise job openings because he did not want to build up files of applications by qualified minority job-seekers.
Crane and his company aggressively fought the E.E.O.C. and similar allegations in a civil lawsuit brought by some former employees. But Crane, without admitting wrongdoing, eventually signed a consent decree that settled the charges for $8.5 million. 
Today, Crane stands poised to buy the Houston Astros, one of Major League Baseball's 30 franchises. Crane's bid of $680 million will now be assessed by baseball's ownership committee and executive council before being put to a vote by the 30 owners.
Rob Manfred, an executive vice president of baseball, would not address the findings of the E.E.O.C. He described Crane as a ''viable candidate'' to take over the Astros.
Crane did not return calls seeking comment.
Race is a serious subject for baseball, which was segregated until Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier in 1947. The sport has made significant strides to expand on-field and workplace integration and diversity, although the percentage of African-American players on opening day rosters fell to 8.5 percent this year, according to the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport at the University of Central Florida.
Bud Selig, baseball's commissioner, ''has helped to make M.L.B.'s central and team front offices look more like America,'' Richard Lapchick, the institute's director, said in April.
Baseball has embraced Robinson as a revered icon; holds an annual ''civil rights'' game; created the Reviving Baseball in Inner Cities Program to promote the game among urban youth of color; and initiated a program to build and extend partnerships with minority- and women-owned businesses. In 1999, baseball found intolerable the racial and ethnic statements by Marge Schott and ultimately pushed her to sell her controlling shares in the Cincinnati Reds.
Thus, the accusations against Crane -- which were made public a decade ago and have gained notoriety again in recent weeks -- create a potential problem for Selig and baseball. On Monday, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People issued a statement describing what it called Crane's ''dismal record in the area of discrimination,'' and saying that he should be closely monitored.
Certainly, Crane's history was not unknown to Selig. Last August, Crane had tried to buy the Texas Rangers in a bankruptcy court auction. But the bid he made with Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, was not enough. A group publicly favored by Selig, one that included the Hall of Fame pitcher Nolan Ryan, bought the team. According to a person involved in the Rangers' sale, Selig at the time called Crane ''unapprovable.'' Manfred, the baseball executive, this week denied Selig had ever made such a determination.
''To the extent that someone suggested that there was an approvability problem at the time of the Rangers' transaction, I believe that to be incorrect,'' he said.
At the time, though, Selig had another reason to be wary of Crane. Three years ago, Crane had appeared ready to take control of the Astros, but backed out of the proposed deal as the nation's economy soured. His decision angered the owner Drayton McLane, one of Selig's closest friends in the sport.
Although Crane has apparently overcome McLane's anger -- McLane is now prepared to sell his club to him -- he will now face the scrutiny of Selig and the other 29 owners in baseball.
Crane and his company have denied the allegations and called the E.E.O.C. investigation flawed. Only 10 percent of the claims by employees were deemed worthy of compensation, and Crane wound up getting $6 million back from the E.E.O.C.
Last month, Nancy Patterson, a lawyer who worked on the case for Crane, wrote in a memorandum that the investigation was ''an unfortunate example of an unfounded prosecution of a private employer.''
She said the small number of valid claims meant that the company was ''ultimately vindicated.''
The E.E.O.C.'s case against Crane never went to trial, leaving the accusations without a full adjudication.
Rick Rossein, a professor at the City University of New York School of Law, said the commission's handling of workplace discrimination cases could be uneven, depending on each district office's funding, workload and the skills of its lawyers and investigators. He said the length of the agency's report on Crane, which ran to 104 pages, suggested that an unusual amount of resources had been put into the investigation.
The accusations included in a ''letter of determination'' by the E.E.O.C., as the ones against Crane and his company were, mean ''there was reasonable cause to believe discrimination has occurred,'' Rossein said. But that is a lower standard than is required in court.
''Very few courts allow a letter of determination to get to the jury,'' he said. ''In court, the slate is clean.''
Crane might not be facing a courtroom as he seeks approval to buy the Astros. But the other 29 owners will, in effect, be jurors determining his suitability to enter their exclusive club. One thing they might explore is Crane's workplace record since the E.E.O.C.'s investigation, and whether he fully complied with the agency's requirement that he pay for a managerial leadership program.
Bill White, who broke into the major leagues roughly a decade after Robinson and later became the first black president of the National League, suggested as much. But White, who played a role in approving new ownership when he was N.L. president, said he did not think baseball could simply rule Crane out.
''You talk to him. You ask, 'Has he done everything the E.E.O.C. thought he should do?' '' White said. ''If you're the chairman of the ownership committee, you ask, 'What do you intend to do about your office staff? Do you intend to hire good people in regards to color?' You try to get him on the record.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Crane, who was accused of workplace discrimination years ago, bid $680 million on the Astros. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID J. PHILLIP/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); BASEBALL (91%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); WOMEN (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (77%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (72%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (72%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (71%); ETHICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ASTROS (82%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (58%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (69%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



606 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Hybrid Owners Look to Extend Carpool Privilege

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Virtue may be its own reward, but incentives don't hurt. In California in 2004, when the country's first measure restricting vehicles' greenhouse gas emissions became law, 75,000 owners of the gas-stingiest hybrid cars were assured access to carpool lanes. 
Now the $8 yellow decal that served as a get-out-of-traffic-free card is about to become meaningless: the privilege, originally set to expire in 2008, was legislatively extended twice, and now ends July 1.
But the Toyota Prius and Honda Civic drivers who got the coveted decals -- 10,000 more were added a couple of years later -- are finding it hard to accept the idea that they are not as special as they once were.
''It's so California,'' said Fran Pavley, a state senator who sponsored the original measure as an assemblywoman seven years ago, as she tried to describe the aggrieved response to the change. ''It's not quite like taking away your firstborn,'' she added. ''But it's right up there for anyone who spends time on the freeway.''
Her district includes Santa Monica and Malibu, where 3 percent of all cars are hybrids -- the greatest concentration in the state. Los Angeles County, whose freeways of molasses have contributed to pop song lyrics and hospital asthma admissions, is home to 27,227 of the yellow-stickered hybrids, almost one-third of the state total.
The lobbying for an extension of the carpool lane privileges is unlikely to bear fruit, said Ms. Pavley, a Democrat who drives a Prius but has no sticker.
John Burton, a former leader of the State Senate, called Ms. Pavley to push for the extension, because vehicles that qualify for a new (green) sticker program do not go on sale until next year. Mr. Burton, now chairman of the state Democratic Party, has a yellow-stickered car, qualifying him to shave many minutes off the 90-minute drive between his home in San Francisco and the Capitol in Sacramento. But the time he saved, he said, is ''honest to God not that big a deal.''
Matthew Kahn, an economics professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has studied hybrid owners, said they were ''a mixture of people wanting to signal their virtuousness and people wanting to get to work quickly.''
In the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, where all hybrids are given carpool lane privileges, the number of hybrids is nearly double that in the Maryland suburbs, where they have no special status. Within the Virginia suburbs, Prince William County, which is farther from the area's work hubs, has the highest proportion of hybrids, said Nicholas Ramfos, a transportation specialist with the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments.
In Sacramento, Ms. Pavley's staff is considering changing her phone number as of July 1, when the yellow-stickered cars must rejoin the noncarpool plebeians. ''Maybe we need to get people counseling,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hybrids with yellow stickers are allowed in carpool lanes in California -- until July 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); LOBBYING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); POP & ROCK (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



607 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Ruling on Airbus Subsidies Upheld on Appeal

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A World Trade Organization appeals panel on Wednesday upheld a ruling that Boeing lost market share to its European rival, Airbus, as a result of billions of dollars in low-cost government loans, according to European and American officials.
But the panel rejected claims by the United States that state financing for the Airbus A380 superjumbo jet was automatically prohibited under global trade rules, the officials said. 
Appeals judges at the trade body, which is based in Geneva, concurred with the initial finding that loans extended to Airbus over the course of four decades did constitute unfair subsidies that had caused Boeing to lose aircraft sales.
But the ruling also appeared to upend what the Americans had considered one of the most crucial parts of the landmark case: namely, that the loans -- known as launch aid -- that Airbus received from Germany, Spain and Britain for the twin-deck A380 jets were expressly prohibited because governments expected a significant export market for the planes when they granted the support.
The W.T.O. defines two broad categories of subsidies: those that are ''prohibited'' and those that are ''actionable'' -- that is, subject to legal challenge or to countervailing measures like punitive tariffs. Prohibited subsidies are those that are specifically designed to promote exports or to encourage production using domestically made components.
Under W.T.O. rules, any prohibited subsidy must be withdrawn within 90 days of the adoption of a dispute panel's findings.
Actionable subsidies are not prohibited automatically, but they can be challenged if the complaining country shows that the subsidy caused material injury -- a loss of jobs, profit or production capacity -- or ''adverse effects'' to its industry, like a loss of export market share or sales.
The appellate ruling on Wednesday did not find European launch aid loans for the A380 to be prohibited. But it did find many of them to be actionable, which will require European governments to propose some form of remedy in the coming months to offset the benefit of any outstanding subsidies, trade lawyers said.
Proving that the loans were export subsidies was seen as critical to the United States and Boeing, which have sought to thwart European plans to finance Airbus's coming wide-body jet, the A350-XWB, using the same type of financing mechanism. The A350 is expected to enter commercial service in 2013 and is seen as the biggest challenger to Boeing's 787 Dreamliner, scheduled to be delivered to its first customers this year.
Dating to 2005, the United States complaint against the European Union forms the first part of the most complex and voluminous case ever to have been brought before the global trade body. The original ruling last year ran more than 1,000 pages, and the appellate body's report is more than 600 pages.
A separate 850-page ruling by the W.T.O. in April found that Boeing had received at least $5.3 billion in improper United States government subsidies to develop the 787 and other jet models, giving it an unfair advantage over Airbus. That ruling has also been appealed.
Both sides were quick to claim victory on Wednesday.
''The U.S. central claim that Airbus received prohibited export subsidies has been dismissed in its entirety,'' Karel De Gucht, the European trade commissioner, said in a statement. ''I am particularly pleased with this important result.''
European officials pointed to the appellate panel's finding that the initial panel erred in its interpretation, saying that the United States had failed to demonstrate that European governments had granted loans to the A380 program specifically because they expected the planes to be sold overseas.
The United States trade representative, Ron Kirk, asserted that the ruling affirmed Washington's contention that European government loans -- which he said totaled $18 billion over 40 years -- had been used to support the development of every Airbus model ever produced and helped Airbus vault past Boeing in 2003 to become the world's largest plane maker.
''These subsidies have greatly harmed the United States, causing Boeing to lose sales and market share in key markets throughout the world,'' Mr. Kirk said in a statement.
Timothy Reif, general counsel for the trade representative, conceded that the ruling had ''wiped the slate clean'' on the issue of whether launch aid constituted an export subsidy and suggested that issue could now be relitigated.
But he emphasized that the ''real fight'' going forward would be over financing for the A350-XWB and whether ''the Europeans decide notwithstanding this very clear decision that they want to continue to provide launch aid to this aircraft.''
The W.T.O. appeals judges upheld the initial panel's finding that without launch aid, Airbus would not have been able to develop any of the major aircraft models that it did, when it did.
The appeals panel also found that in the absence of the subsidies, Airbus would have a smaller share of the large civil aircraft market.
The judges also found that several Airbus jet programs, including the A380, had received a specific benefit because they were provided at below-market rate of return.
Mr. De Gucht acknowledged that the trade body had found that some past subsidies hurt Boeing. He insisted, however, that the economic impact of those subsidies was ''very limited.''
The United States has argued that all loans ruled as noncompliant by the W.T.O. should be either repaid or refinanced on ordinary commercial terms.
On Wednesday, Mr. De Gucht did not specifically address the issue of possible remedies, but he said Brussels would now study the report ''to determine the next steps in this dispute.''
Rainer Ohler, an Airbus spokesman, said he saw ''no significant consequences for Airbus or the European support system from today's decision,'' adding that the W.T.O.'s findings were ''likely to require only limited changes in European policies and practices.''
Under the current terms of the government loans, Airbus makes repayments as its planes are delivered to customers. Airbus has delivered 43 of 244 orders for the A380. The vast majority of those sales have been to non-European customers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An A380 airliner leaves an Airbus plant near Hamburg, Germany. A panel said loans to develop the plane were not granted because of hopes of sales overseas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN CHARISIUS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT PROMOTION (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); APPEALS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); JUDGES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



608 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Cash Crops Under Glass and Up on the Roof

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
When Lufa Farms began selling produce to customers in Montreal in late April, it signaled what could be the beginning of a tantalizing new era in the gastronomic fortunes of that Canadian metropolis.
In all but the short summer season, the availability of fresh, locally grown fruit and vegetables has been little more than a pipe dream for Montreal residents.
But Lufa Farms, founded by Mohamed Hage and Kurt Lynn, turned an unassuming office rooftop into a 31,000-square-foot greenhouse that grows tomatoes, cucumbers, peppers and other produce year-round and is a working example of a developing trend known as urban rooftop farming.
It has taken a timely convergence of technologies and consumer attitudes to bring rooftop farming to the fore. The advance of hydroponic growing techniques and innovative, cost-effective greenhouse systems, together with increasing consumer desire for organic produce, has redefined the term locally grown and spurred entrepreneurs to create a variety of greenhouse technologies and business models. 
The Lufa Farms model is to sell directly to consumers through a co-op. Other urban farms are forming partnerships with supermarket chains by building large greenhouses on supermarket roofs and selling their produce to the store below.
A third concept, called vertical farming, involves growing food in skyscrapers or even warehouses using artificial light and organic growing materials. In theory, a 30-story, one-square block farm could yield as much food as 2,400 outdoor acres, and with less spoilage because it would travel less distance, according to Dickson D. Despommier, a Columbia University emeritus professor of public health and microbiology and a leading proponent of vertical farming.
TerraSphere, a unit of Converted Organics with offices in Surrey, British Columbia, and Boston, designs and builds vertical farm systems and sells its lettuce and spinach through Choices Markets, an organic grocery chain in western Canada.
As the technologies have been conquered and viability studies have evolved into real enterprises, a crucial question remains: Can rooftop farmers make a profit?
After four years of developing the business, building the greenhouse and refining growing techniques, Lufa Farms has started delivering baskets of produce to local subscribers: $22 for a six-pound basket and $30 for a basket weighing about nine pounds.
With more than 400 customers signed up and more joining daily, Mr. Lynn, a 60-year-old technology entrepreneur who founded, ListenUP! Canada, a hearing aid chain, says Lufa Farms can enroll a thousand customers, break even this year and reap a 15 percent profit in the future.
''Unlike a lot of start-ups, we're not trying to find a market,'' Mr. Lynn said. ''We know there is a demand for this.''
Montreal, like other cold-climate cities, has its share of small organic farms. But a land-based farmer is restricted to a 24- to 28-week growing season while a rooftop greenhouse can produce year-round.
The capital costs to get started are higher for rooftop farms -- from $1.2 million to $2 million to find a building and set up a greenhouse -- but the operating costs are much lower. That is because rooftop farms require less labor, land, water, fertilizer and heavy equipment and because they all but eliminate shipping costs by selling to the local market. The result, proponents say, is a fresher, tastier, longer-lasting, more nutritious product.
Most rooftop gardens use hydroponic cultivation, a water-based growing system in which no soil is required, nutrients are carefully controlled and natural pest control using insects is favored over pesticides. These greenhouses extend the already popular green-roof concept, using recycled water and lowering energy consumption in the buildings upon which they sit. Lufa Farms says it has saved its host building 25 percent in heating costs since it completed its greenhouse.
Rooftop farms can command a similar or slightly higher price for their produce, but the biggest advantage for Lufa is that its urban location means it can attract more customers and deliver more than a thousand baskets of produce a week, compared with 200 to 300 for a typical land-based co-op. The company's business plan calls for rapid expansion to more rooftops in Montreal and other cities with similar climates.
New York has 14,000 acres of unused rooftop space, according to Laurie Schoeman, director of New York Sun Works, a nonprofit group that promotes the use of rooftop greenhouses. Rooftop gardens abound in New York, but without an enclosed greenhouse, the growing season is limited. Ms. Schoeman said that if all of these unshaded rooftops installed greenhouses, the resulting produce could feed as many as 20 million people in the New York metropolitan area.
It is tempting to wonder why it took so long for rooftop farming to emerge. Part of the problem in Montreal was that there was no zoning for agricultural buildings, which meant that getting the permits required for Lufa Farms took time and intense negotiation with the city. Finding a suitable rooftop also took time. Plus, cultural biases had to be overcome.
In agribusiness, food production has been about mass production. Perishable items like vegetables traditionally got short shrift, and consumers accepted bland produce. Low gas prices and relatively inexpensive transportation helped maintain that status quo. But the rise of the locavore movement in the past decade began to change attitudes and desires. Rising gas prices sent transportation costs soaring, and consumers became less willing to buy mediocre fare.
In 2006, BrightFarms opened as a consulting business for rooftop growers. It advised Gotham Greens, a New York-based company that recently built a 15,000-square-foot greenhouse on a Brooklyn rooftop with the intention of producing more than 30 tons of vegetables, fruit and culinary herbs a year for sale through local grocery stores, farmers markets and restaurants. Gotham Greens expects to begin producing crops this year.
More ambitiously, BrightFarms recently created a business model and started building its own rooftop farms. Instead of embracing the co-op model or selling to restaurants, it decided to specialize in making exclusive deals with supermarkets to build and operate farms.
Paul Lightfoot, chief executive of BrightFarms, said it could build a one-acre or 43,560-square-foot rooftop farm for about $2 million. BrightFarms has signed up eight supermarket chains around the country, including three of the largest 30 national chains, he said. Four of the farms are under construction, but BrightFarm's partners declined to announce the deals before the markets are ready to sell produce, he said.
Mr. Lightfoot predicted each farm would generate $1 million to $1.5 million in annual revenue, and that he would sell produce for similar or even lower prices than traditional farms. He says he expects his gross margins to be extremely attractive because the company's business model eliminates farming's biggest expense, shipping.
For a traditional farm, he said, it is not unusual for lettuce to travel more than 1,500 miles over five or six days to a supermarket shelf, which can cost as much as $1 for a head of lettuce that will sell for $2. By improving the energy efficiency of food production, Mr. Lightfoot contends BrightFarms can change the economics of farming.
''Our plan is to achieve $100 million in revenues by the end of 2015 and $1 billion by the end of 2020,'' he said.
Because the rooftop farm concept is so new, a true profitability picture will not emerge for a couple of years, said David Furneaux, a venture capitalist based in Waltham, Mass. But he has been looking for investment opportunities in agriculture for three years, and he says a direct-to-consumer model ''has the potential to be extremely profitable, generating 25 percent net income for this type of business.''
''Is this a sustainable profit-making business?'' he asked. ''The answer is yes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BrightFarms Systems, which was founded to advise rooftop growers, built a greenhouse atop a school on West 93rd Street in Manhattan. A BrightFarms worker, left, picked herbs there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUY CALAF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); TRENDS (75%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (70%); BIOLOGY (67%); SPECIALTY PERSONAL CARE STORES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



609 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; ATEK JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: As an Insecticide Makes a Comeback, Uganda Must Weigh Its Costs

BYLINE: By JOSH KRON

 BODY:
ATEK, Uganda -- Bosco Acope was a self-made man.
Growing up as a child here along the muggy, isolated plains of northern Uganda, life was not easy. His parents were poor. He did not attend secondary school. Many of his friends died from bouts of malaria, a scourge that has plagued this agrarian society.
Mr. Acope, 49, survived. At 19, he became a small-time farmer, with one acre of land. He married. He sowed. ''I have been a farmer in this life,'' he said.
When the American government, a generous and close friend to Uganda, began an organic-farming program to help rural economies here, Mr. Acope expanded, selling a wide variety of commodities at good rates. 
His one acre became seven. Mr. Acope fathered 11 children. Uganda was developing, and Mr. Acope was one of many who were riding high, he said.
But the very next year came winds of change. Faced with unrelenting malaria, which threatened both lives and livelihoods, Uganda's government teamed up with the United States to use chemical insecticide sprays -- including DDT -- to try to eliminate the disease. Mr. Acope's home district, Apac, which has some of the highest malaria rates in the world was chosen for spraying in early 2008.
Mr. Acope said an official from the organic-farming company he sold to, which was also supported by the United States, warned that the sprays were dangerous. Mr. Acope's produce would no longer be guaranteed to be organic -- especially since many crops were stored indoors, where the spraying occurred -- nor would it be bought at a lucrative price.
''I was told to protect my market, to try to stop the spraying,'' Mr. Acope said. ''But the whole village was sprayed.''
One morning, he recalled, he watched a group of men in gas masks who were carrying metal canisters pass through the village, and just like that, Mr. Acope's organic-food market was gone. He said he had to pull three of his children out of school. Furthermore, the chemicals in the insecticide lasted so long that the organic-farming companies said they would not be back for 15 years.
So Mr. Acope is helping to take his government to court.
Once condemned as poisonous and inhumane, DDT has staged a recent comeback. In 2006, the World Health Organization strongly endorsed the chemical's use on indoor walls as a cheap and long-lasting weapon in the fight against malaria. The United States also sanctioned DDT to combat the disease in African countries with ''a high burden of malaria,'' including Uganda.
The United States sprayed DDT to eliminate the last remnants of malaria across North America. The disease's eradication was a milestone in public health and development. Malaria almost thwarted construction of the Panama Canal and ''influenced to a great extent human populations and human history,'' the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says.
But the United States banned the use of DDT in 1972 over the chemical's hazardous environmental impact. Studies have also linked DDT to diabetes and breast cancer. One examination of the consequences of using DDT to fight malaria in sub-Saharan Africa, conducted by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, said the chemical might have increased infant deaths.
Still, the risks of not spraying are clear as well. In Africa, malaria kills 2,000 children each day, according to Unicef, and costs approximately $12.5 billion in lost incomes each year, the Malaria Consortium says.
''It really affects the whole fabric of the economic system in Africa,'' said Dr. Patrick Lukulay, a consultant to a United States Agency for International Development initiative to treat malaria. ''It prevents people from being productive citizens.''
In the Apac region of Uganda, the United States focused on two conflicting agendas: developing organic farming and eradicating malaria, ultimately affecting the livelihoods of tens of thousands of farmers.
U.S.A.I.D. ''has supported agricultural development in Uganda for many years, including the promotion of organic farming in Northern Uganda,'' said Michael Brander of BioVision, a Swiss organization focused on eco-friendly economic development. ''Organic farming provided a good price at low production costs for farmers; however, it was exactly in those areas they also supported spraying of DDT.''
Now Uganda's constitutional court is expected to hear a case brought by a Ugandan environmental organization against the government that asserts that officials failed to meet W.H.O. standards for using DDT, including failure to properly prepare the local population.
But given the prevalence of the disease, ''chemical spraying with strict monitoring and supervision is one of the most effective measures to control malaria in high-risk areas,'' said a United States Embassy official, who was not authorized to speak publicly.
The village of Atek is a place where mangoes can be eaten directly from trees and children walk to school shoeless. Farming is a way of life, and the American aid agency's organic-farming program gave the village a competitive edge.
When the DDT was sprayed, organic-farming companies say they lost the bulk of their supply immediately. An American-owned company, Dunavant, had 50,000 certified organic farmers in areas affected by the spraying, according to the Uganda Network on Toxic Free Malaria Control, the organization taking the government to court. Shares, another farming company, said at least 16,000 of its suppliers were affected.
''All that got lost,'' said Jan-Alex Fokkens, the director of Shares. ''It was game over.''
The organic-farming companies sued the Ugandan government after the first rounds of spraying, and a high court issued a temporary injunction on the use of DDT in 2008, but the case was later dismissed.
The American government says it has not returned to using DDT in Uganda since the court ruling, even though the Ugandan government has made numerous references to reinstituting the chemical. Now, the main chemical being used in the insecticide-spraying program, bendiocarb, has also been discontinued in the United States, and it is considered to be more expensive and less efficient than DDT.
''At a certain point bendiocarb will fail,'' said Richard Onen, a field coordinator for Abt Associates, a business contracted by U.S.A.I.D. to carry out its indoor spraying program. ''I cannot rule out the possibility of using DDT. It is cheap.''
But there are questions as to how well DDT worked in Uganda in the first place. ''Mosquitoes had become resistant to the DDT,'' said Kale Dickinson, a nursing officer at a local health center. ''DDT was not effective.''
For Lillian Etime, Mr. Acope's neighbor and a mother of six, the death of her chickens during the first round of spraying set off alarm bells. ''We feared that the children could touch the wall,'' where spray was administered, ''and they could die,'' said Ms. Etime, 32. Ultimately, it was business that suffered the most, she said, with her revenue reduced by more than half. ''The problem I experience is the problem of money,'' she said.
Underneath a mango tree nearby, Mr. Acope lamented his own reversal of fortune, but remained stoic. ''I am now working on my own,'' he said. ''Still growing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bosco Acope and his family tend their farm in Atek, Uganda, where the government's use of DDT has threatened their livelihood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC HOFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: In Atek, organic farming and malaria eradication clash. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTICIDES (90%); MALARIA (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); ORGANIC FOODS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (58%)

COMPANY: WALLS AS (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (61%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UGANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



610 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: About That Checking Account

 BODY:
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, created by Congress last year as part of financial reform, has broad authority to ban unfair or abusive practices in financial products and services. Protecting checking account holders from unreasonable fees and other costly traps should be one of the agency's first priorities when it opens for business in July. 
At a minimum, it should apply the same sensible protections won by long-abused credit card users in the Credit Card Act of 2009.
A new report by the Pew Charitable Trust's Safe Checking in the Electronic Age Project analyzed the policies of the nation's 10 largest banks. It shows why checking account holders -- in other words most adult Americans -- are in desperate need of better protections.
Required disclosure documents run an average of 111 pages and often hide penalty and fee information in several places so that customers cannot easily find it. Checking overdraft fees are not ''reasonable and proportional,'' as late fees must now be for credit cards. According to the study, the average overdraft charge of $35 on an average overdraft of $36 amounts to an annualized interest rate of more than 5,000 percent. The banks deserve to make money on these transactions. But certainly not that much.
Most of the banks studied reserve the right to reorder transactions in ways that maximize overdraft fees. They can post withdrawals before deposits. They can also clear checks out of the order in which they are presented -- processing the largest item first -- so that the account is emptied quickly and they can levy multiple overdraft charges.
The study estimates that the banking industry will reap $38 billion in overdraft fees this year -- a record high -- much of that because of tricky disclosure, processing and fee schemes. That is outrageous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



611 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: A Favorite Emerges For Helm of I.M.F.

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN and KATRIN BENNHOLD

 BODY:
PARIS -- The French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, was on a panel at the World Economic Forum in Davos this January when her usual smile turned into a frown. Next to her, Robert E. Diamond Jr., chief executive of Barclays and one of the most powerful bankers in the world, thanked regulators and finance ministers for their role in shaping a better environment after the financial crisis.
Ms. Lagarde looked him in the eye. ''The best way for the banking sector to say thank you would be to actually have, you know, good financing of the economy, sensible compensation systems in place and reinforcement of their capital,'' she replied, to a burst of applause.
Her straight talk has helped burnish Ms. Lagarde's reputation as one of Europe's most influential ambassadors in the world of international finance. 
And now it is helping to make Ms. Lagarde, 55, perhaps the leading candidate to succeed her friend and colleague Dominique Strauss-Kahn as head of the International Monetary Fund. The process of selecting a new managing director will speed up now that Mr. Strauss-Kahn has resigned his post as the I.M.F.'s managing director to deal with charges of attempted rape, stemming from his encounter with a hotel maid in New York last Saturday. The I.M.F. executive board is expected to meet quickly, possibly as early as Thursday, to start opening up the application process.
Another of Ms. Lagarde's selling points, though, may be one not listed on her resume.
''What's happened with Strauss-Kahn underscores how great it would be to have a woman in the role,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a former I.M.F. chief economist who is now a professor at Harvard University.
If she gets the post, Ms. Lagarde would be the first woman to run the I.M.F. -- or any large international financial institution, for that matter. But Mr. Rogoff indicated gender was only part of her appeal.
''She is enormously impressive, politically astute and a strong personality,'' he said. ''At finance meetings all over the world, she is treated practically like a rock star.''
European officials are frantically maneuvering to keep one of their own in a post Europe has controlled since the I.M.F. and the World Bank were created in the late 1940s. It will not necessarily be easy. Three years after financial excesses in the United States and Europe brought the world economy to the brink of catastrophe, Mr. Strauss-Kahn has become the latest symbol of what many see as the faults of the wealthy West.
Appointing simply another European, particularly another white middle-age male, might not fly this time.
The world's fast-growing emerging economies say they should now get a shot at running a big institution like the I.M.F. -- or the World Bank, traditionally headed by an American in a long-standing understanding between the two economic powers.
But with Europe facing a drawn-out financial crisis of its own, global leaders may consider it politic for a European to finish serving out Mr. Strauss-Kahn's term, which ends in 2012. That might then create an opening for a leader from one of the emerging markets -- from South Africa or India, for example -- whose collective economic heft and effect on global markets is starting to eclipse that of the West.
That is why Ms. Lagarde is seen as Europe's lifeline. Her main competition,, analysts say, is another policy maker with an alternate profile, Kemal Dervis, a former finance minister of Turkey. Mr. Dervis is credited with rescuing the Turkish economy after it was hit by a devastating financial crisis in 2001, in part by securing a multibillion-dollar loan from the I.M.F. Before that, Mr. Dervis worked at the World Bank for 24 years.
But with the I.M.F. overseeing 100 billion euros (around $140 billion) in loans to Greece, Portugal and Ireland, Ms. Lagarde may be the best person to steer a transition at the I.M.F., analysts say, even if President Nicolas Sarkozy of France has not yet moved to put her in the running.
Ms. Lagarde has kept quiet about the rumors circulating about her potential candidacy. As one French official put it: ''She knows that whatever she says will only diminish her chances. It's best to stay above the fray and see what happens.''
But French officials do not doubt her ambition to move to I.M.F. headquarters in Washington if the opportunity arose. ''She is without a doubt one of the top candidates people are talking about right now,'' a French diplomat said.
Ms. Lagarde's biggest drawback as a candidate, perhaps, is that she is French -- like Mr. Strauss-Kahn. But recent history suggests that that is not a disqualifier. Between 1978 and 2000, two Frenchmen -- Jacques de Larosiere and Michel Camdessus -- were the successive chiefs of the I.M.F.
Ms. Lagarde, the former head of the Chicago-based law firm Baker & McKenzie, lived in the United States for 25 years. Tall and stylish, with a shock of silver hair and a penchant for Chanel jackets, she is as connected and as respected in Washington and on Wall Street as in Europe.
Her lightly accented English is almost flawless, a rarity among top French officials, which contributes to her reputation for sharp-tongued wit.
She impressed American audiences during a 2009 appearance on ''The Daily Show'' with Jon Stewart, recounting how she pushed for the firing of incompetent managers at a French-Belgian bank that required a taxpayer bailout. (''I, for one, said, 'Management is out. They did a crappy job. They have to go.' '') She then presented Mr. Stewart with a beret.
In an interview with Christiane Amanpour on ABC last year, Ms. Lagarde observed that women ''inject less libido, less testosterone into'' the workplace than men, a remark that seems prescient in light of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's scandal.
Ms. Lagarde is one of the few members of the French elite who so far has avoided scandal -- although a French prosecutor recently asked the court of justice here to investigate whether she abused her authority in playing a role in a case that resulted in a lucrative payment to a showy French businessman, Bernard Tapie, in 2007.
For the last two decades, Mr. Tapie -- who has worn multiple hats over the years as the chief of the Adidas sports empire, as a French minister and as the owner and president of the Marseilles soccer team -- has pursued claims that he was cheated by the French bank Credit Lyonnais when it oversaw the sale of Adidas in 1993.
Ms. Lagarde ordered a special panel of judges to intervene in the dispute, resulting in a judgment of 285 million euros for Mr. Tapie.
Ms. Lagarde said she acted with ''rigor and transparency'' and has denied any charges of wrongdoing, which were advanced by the French Socialist Party. ''This is an attempt to smear me,'' she told Le Figaro, the French daily.
If Ms. Lagarde is respected in the United States, she also has the trust of Germany's leaders -- something of vital importance in the current European debt crisis. While her boss, Mr. Sarkozy, has had a tumultuous relationship with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Ms. Lagarde has nurtured a close personal relationship with Mrs. Merkel. The two women are on first-name terms and have on several occasions found common ground on important policy decisions, officials say.
Last May, when Europe was on the edge of disaster, Ms. Lagarde refused to start an important meeting before Germany had sent a replacement for its finance minister at the time, Wolfgang Schauble, who was ill.
According to another official who was present, Ms. Lagarde told the group, ''There cannot be an agreement without the Germans.'' Another time, when Mr. Sarkozy ruled out involving the I.M.F. in a European bailout program, Ms. Merkel and Ms. Lagarde pushed for the fund's involvement and prevailed.
''She is a negotiator at heart,'' said one official, who has accompanied her to dozens of such meetings in recent years. ''She knows how to identify the common denominator between different parties.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister who is considered a leading candidate to head the International Monetary Fund, misstated the relationship of the French businessman Bernard Tapie to the Marseille soccer team. Mr. Tapie, who won a lucrative settlement in a court case after Ms. Lagarde ordered a special panel of judges to intervene, was the owner and president of the team, not its coach.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christine Lagarde, France's finance minister. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 From left, Timothy F. Geithner, Christine Lagarde and Dominique Strauss-Kahn last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE THEILER/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (88%); WOMEN (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (66%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); RESIGNATIONS (52%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (92%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



612 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. CHIEF QUITS AFTER HIS ARREST IN SEXUAL ATTACK

BYLINE: By GERRY MULLANY; Lori Moore contributed reporting to this article from New York, and Liz Alderman from Paris.

 BODY:
Dominique Strauss-Kahn resigned Wednesday as head of the International Monetary Fund after explosive accusations that he had sexually attacked a housekeeper in a Midtown Manhattan hotel room.
''It is with infinite sadness that I feel compelled today to present to the Executive Board my resignation from my post of managing director of the I.M.F.,'' he said in a statement dated Wednesday and released early Thursday by the I.M.F. ''I think at this time first of my wife -- whom I love more than anything -- of my children, of my family, of my friends.''
His resignation comes four days after Mr. Strauss-Kahn was taken off an Air France plane at Kennedy International Airport and arrested in connection with the accusations, and a day after Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, called for his resignation. 
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, had been expected to declare his candidacy for the French presidency soon. He was seen as one of the candidates most likely to defeat President Nicolas Sarkozy.
In issuing his resignation, Mr. Strauss-Kahn said, ''I want to say that I deny with the greatest possible firmness all of the allegations that have been made against me.''
News of the arrest produced an earthquake of shock, outrage, disbelief and embarrassment throughout France.
Though Mr. Strauss-Kahn received generally high marks for his stewardship of the bank, his reputation was tarnished in 2008 by an affair with a Hungarian economist who was a subordinate there. The fund decided to stand by him despite concluding that he had shown poor judgment. He issued an apology to employees at the bank and his wife, Anne Sinclair, an American-born French journalist.
French media quickly announced Mr. Strauss-Kahn's resignation and underscored that he was leaving to focus on proving his innocence. Commentators said it was unusual for Mr. Strauss-Kahn to use personal language, including references to his wife, family and colleagues at the I.M.F.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's extramarital affairs have long been considered an open secret. But the legal charges against him -- which include attempted rape, forced oral sex and an effort to sequester another person against her will -- are of an entirely different magnitude, even in France and elsewhere in continental Europe, where voters have generally shown more lenience than Americans toward the sexual behavior of prominent politicians, most notably the escapades of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's resignation sets off the jockeying for his replacement. The French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, is considered a leading candidate to succeed Mr. Strauss-Kahn, her friend and colleague. Her straight talk has helped burnish Ms. Lagarde's reputation as one of Europe's most influential ambassadors in the world of international finance.
Her main competition, analysts say, is Kemal Dervis, a former finance minister of Turkey. Mr. Dervis is credited with rescuing the Turkish economy after it was hit by a devastating financial crisis in 2001, in part by securing a multibillion-dollar loan from the I.M.F. Before that, Mr. Dervis worked at the World Bank for 24 years.
In the meantime, the I.M.F. said in its statement Wednesday night that John Lipsky would remain as acting managing director.
Mr. Lipsky can continue as interim leader until a new chief is appointed. He had already announced plans to leave the agency in August. Normally, a successor is voted by the agency's 24-member executive board, with large financial contributors like the United States, Japan and China getting a bigger percentage of voting rights. It was not immediately clear when the board would start to consider candidates, whom member countries must nominate.
Europeans want to keep one of their own in a post they have occupied since the I.M.F was created after World War II. But the world's fast-growing emerging nations say their time has come to run a big institution like the I.M.F., given their growing global economic might.
While at the helm of the I.M.F., Mr. Strauss-Kahn, an economist and politician, had used the European debt crisis to seize, somewhat audaciously, a new and prominent role for the world body. Trying to shed its old image as a hidebound policy task master, the fund refashioned itself as the investment bank of multilateral institutions -- doing whatever it took to get the deal done.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn was a leading member of France's Socialist Party when he was chosen by the newly elected Mr. Sarkozy, a conservative, to be the head of the fund, a job that has traditionally been given to a European.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest on Saturday came 10 minutes before his plane was due to depart, at about 4:40 p.m., when two detectives of the Port Authority suddenly boarded Air France Flight 23, as the plane idled at the departure gate.
The police had been called to the hotel about 1:30 p.m., but when they arrived, Mr. Strauss-Kahn had already checked out. At some point, Mr. Strauss-Kahn called the hotel and said that his cellphone was missing. Police detectives then coached hotel employees to tell him, falsely, that they had the telephone, according to a law enforcement official. Mr. Strauss-Kahn said he was at Kennedy Airport and about to get on a plane.
Suspicions are widespread in France that Mr. Strauss Kahn may have been set up. On Wednesday, a poll conducted by CSA showed that 57 percent of people surveyed think he was ''the victim of a plot.'' Seventy percent of respondents from his Socialist Party also agree with the theory.
Still, as Mr. Strauss-Kahn's lawyer prepared to renew efforts obtain his release on bail, France was quickly recalculating the impact on the political landscape.
As the country heads into a presidential election next year, those questioned by CSA believe Mr. Sarkozy has the most to gain from Mr. Strauss-Kahn's downfall, followed by the far-right National Front candidate, Marine Le Pen, and Francois Holland, the current Socialist front-runner.
Ms. Le Pen wasted little time turning the spotlight back on Mr. Sarkozy. ''I wonder if Mr. Sarkozy is considering the responsibility he bears for having sent Dominique Strauss-Kahn to the I.M.F.,'' she said after news of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's resignation emerged. She said that France needed to learn a lesson from his arrest, and ensure that ''rich and poor are treated with an equal footing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); POLITICS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); AIRPORTS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

COMPANY: AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (56%); AF (AMS) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (92%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (53%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HUNGARY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



613 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Aims to Improve Ties With Latin America

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and SIMON ROMERO; Ginger Thompson reported from Washington, and Simon Romero from Caracas, Venezuela.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As tumult rages across the Middle East, and relations with Pakistan border on a breakdown, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton was scheduled Wednesday night to host a private dinner with at least six former Latin American presidents, part of a quiet campaign to repair relations with a region that complains it has been ignored by American policy makers.
Diplomatic tensions have left the United States without ambassadors in Bolivia, Venezuela, Ecuador and Mexico. Free trade agreements long sought by Panama and Colombia -- two of the United States' closest allies in the region -- remain stalled by domestic political fights, while China has moved ahead of the United States to become Brazil's most important trading partner.
In Cuba, a State Department contractor remains in prison more than a year after he was detained for handing out satellite telephones as part of a semi-covert U.S.A.I.D. program aimed at undermining the Castro government. Haiti's reconstruction has been plagued by poor coordination. Honduras remains outcast from the Organization of American States after a coup in which troops forced a democratically elected president out of the country in his pajamas. 
And the fight against organized crime in Mexico has failed to stem the violence that has left nearly 40,000 people dead, while drug trafficking organizations have expanded their brutal networks in Central America.
Although Mrs. Clinton's dinner with the former presidents of Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, Peru, Panama and El Salvador had been in the works for weeks, organizers said it coincided with her sense that years of neglect had resulted in missed opportunities in the region. It also coincides, analysts said, with the start of an American election season that is certain to hinge in some part on Hispanic votes.
Mrs. Clinton has made at least two speeches about Latin America in recent weeks, including one on Monday before a group of politically active Mexican-American leaders. And two weeks ago she accepted -- some say encouraged -- the resignation of her chief envoy to Latin America, Arturo Valenzuela, igniting soul-searching by diplomats and experts about the expectations for closer ties that were raised by President Obama's election, and why his administration had failed to achieve them.
Ted Piccone, a deputy director at the Brookings Institution, who helped the State Department arrange Wednesday's dinner for the six former Latin American presidents, said Mrs. Clinton had begun to ''think about the kind of legacy she's aiming to leave'' in the region. He said she had acknowledged that ''the United States could be doing better,'' and had expressed a desire to ''take things up a notch.''
The outlook among the United States' neighbors is not all bleak, analysts said. Mrs. Clinton has traveled to Latin America more than any of her recent predecessors. On a number of occasions, she has brought every senior member of the cabinet along with her. Mr. Obama has met with seven Latin American presidents since February. He also made three trips to the region, and was criticized here for being in Brazil in March when he ordered airstrikes against Libya.
Dan Restrepo, Mr. Obama's senior adviser on Latin America at the National Security Council, said, ''Our relationships with the major countries in the hemisphere are in good shape, as evidenced by the president's outreach in recent months.''
But as the world gets smaller, less credit is given for miles traveled. ''Lackluster,'' was the word several leaders in the region used in interviews to describe the administration's achievements in Latin America. The danger, they said, is that the lack of sustained engagement threatened to leave the United States on the sidelines as its neighbors enjoyed faster economic growth than any other region except Asia, and as democracies that once looked to the United States as a kind of political north star begin searching for others to help them set a new course.
''Nobody can deny the importance that China is having, more and more,'' President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia said in a recent interview. ''They are investing in Latin America. They are very attracted to Colombia because we have what they need, and for us this is music to our ears.''
The more downbeat among diplomats and experts said that when it came to thinking about Latin America, Washington policy makers remained caught up in cold war paradigms. And they said that the Obama administration, mindful of political minefields, tended to tread lightly in situations that called for challenging the status quo, frustrating supporters and inflaming critics in almost equal measure.
There are powerful Republicans, like Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, the chairwoman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, who equate the administration's moves to loosen travel restrictions to Cuba -- reversing a policy that had been imposed by President George W. Bush -- as cozying up with tyrants.
In a telephone interview, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen accused the administration of ''going along to get along.''
Meanwhile, Senator John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, has criticized the administration for not moving far enough away from Bush-era policies toward Cuba. In recent weeks, Mr. Kerry, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, ordered a hold on the $20 million U.S.A.I.D. planned to spend on Cuba programs this year, saying the programs had undermined American objectives more than they had weakened President Raul Castro's grip on power.
''There continues to be a huge divide in views about Latin American policy,'' said Christopher Sabatini, senior director for policy at the Council of the Americas. ''Part of that divide is driven by the administration's lack of leadership. The vacuum has allowed old wounds to fester, and reopen.''
There was broad agreement among those interviewed that Mr. Valenzuela, who became close to Mrs. Clinton when he worked for President Clinton at the State Department and the National Security Council, was only a part of the administration's problem. State Department officials and Congressional aides described him as deeply knowledgeable about Latin American history, but poorly suited to lead the administration into the new realities of a hemisphere that is less financially and politically dependent on the United States.
In several Latin American countries, however, ideological battles have been superseded by the search for new commercial partners and markets. And some said the distance between the United States and its neighbors reflected the evolution of a region that now attracted large investment flows from other powers.
Mr. Restrepo, Mr. Obama's adviser, said that the president welcomed the shift away from the senior partner-junior partner dynamic.
Myles Frechette, a former United States ambassador to Colombia, said the region was experiencing an era of ''liberation'' from American hegemony. And, he added, ''When you get liberated, are you looking for another prison warden?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); ORGANIZED CRIME (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); CUBA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ECUADOR (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); PANAMA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); EL SALVADOR (79%); HONDURAS (79%); HAITI (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



614 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Focus on Obama as Tensions Soar Across the Middle East

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and ETHAN BRONNER; Helene Cooper reported from Washington, and Ethan Bronner from Jerusalem. Mark Landler contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Few game-changing proposals are emerging to defuse tensions in the Middle East as a busy week of diplomacy unfolds with President Obama's address to the region and his meeting with Israel's prime minister.
Against the backdrop of Middle East uprisings that have intensified animus toward Israel and growing momentum for global recognition of a Palestinian state, American and Israeli officials are struggling to balance national security interests against the need to adapt to a transformative movement in the Arab world.
The White House unveiled a $2 billion multiyear economic aid package for Egypt, which officials say would largely shift existing funds. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel prepared to arrive in Washington with a package that he hoped would shift the burden of restarting the peace process to the Palestinians.
Mr. Obama, who is set to address Americans -- and, more significantly, Muslims around the world -- from the State Department on Thursday morning, may yet have something surprising up his sleeve. One administration official said that there remained debate about whether Mr. Obama would formally endorse Israel's pre-1967 borders as the starting point for negotiations over a Palestinian state, a move that would send an oratorical signal that the United States expected Israel to make concessions. 
But Mr. Obama did not plan to present an American blueprint for peace, White House officials said, and it remained unclear if he would even endorse a Palestinian state on pre-1967 lines, a move opposed, administration officials said, by his chief Middle East adviser, Dennis Ross. Mr. Obama did seek to increase pressure on Syria by imposing largely symbolic sanctions on its leader, President Bashar al-Assad, in the wake of the bloody crackdown there.
White House officials declined to say whether Mr. Obama would go further in Thursday's speech and call on Mr. Assad to resign.
The debate around Mr. Obama's remarks, which the White House has billed as a major address, is made even more significant since the president's speech will serve as the beginning of what promises to be several intense days of debate over American policy in the region, its support for Palestinian statehood, and how far Mr. Obama is willing to push Israel on peace with the Palestinians at a time of upheaval in the region. Mr. Obama is to meet with Mr. Netanyahu the day after his speech, on Friday. Two days after that, Mr. Obama is scheduled to address the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobby. Next week, Mr. Netanyahu will counter with his own address to a joint meeting of Congress.
Mr. Netanyahu, aides say, is planning to tell Mr. Obama that Israel wants to keep a military presence along the Jordan River and sovereignty over Jerusalem and the settlement blocs -- three major stumbling blocks for the Palestinians -- but that it would be willing to negotiate away the rest of the West Bank, more territory than Mr. Netanyahu has been willing to specify in the past. He has one condition -- the Palestinian government cannot include Hamas. Mr. Netanyahu knows that the Palestinians will find this condition unacceptable, particularly since Fatah, the main Palestinian movement, just signed a unity pact with Hamas. But since the United States labels Hamas as terrorists, Mr. Netanyahu is betting that he will appear more forthcoming than ever.
''On the one hand, the Palestinians are moving toward Hamas while on the other, the prime minister is showing a real willingness to make far-reaching territorial compromise,'' a top Netanyahu aide said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Whether Mr. Netanyahu's offer, first outlined in a speech to Parliament on Monday, is a genuine attempt to negotiate peace with the Palestinians, or to make it appear that the Palestinians are the ones blocking progress, is not yet clear. The Palestinians want East Jerusalem as their capital and do not want Israeli soldiers along the Jordan.
Diplomatic momentum has been with the Palestinians for several years, with their leadership and requests viewed as reasonable and Mr. Netanyahu as unyielding. Some in Israel believe now is the time to seize the moment with a bold initiative, but they are not in power. ''The coming days are a final chance to stop or at least to slow Israel's diplomatic decline,'' Dov Weissglas, who was bureau chief for Ariel Sharon when he was prime minister, wrote in Wednesday's Yediot Aharonot newspaper. He wants a more far-reaching offer from Mr. Netanyahu that would give up East Jerusalem and not require that Israel keep soldiers along the Jordan.
While there are Israeli scholars and former officials who believe that Hamas, which rules Gaza, could become more moderate, the dominant intelligence estimate in Israel is that Hamas will not change. ''We have a strong body of evidence showing that while Hamas has grown pragmatic, it is not moderate,'' a senior Israeli defense official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. ''It is far more likely that Hamas will take over the Palestinian Authority than vice versa.''
Many, including some within the Obama administration, think the talks with Hamas need not be a deal breaker and could even be useful over the long run. Finally, the upheavals in the Arab world are turning the mood ever more against Israel, making American and European leaders eager to pressure it for concessions.
So far Mr. Obama has not used the moment to push Israel. But Palestinians have been absorbing lessons and audacity from pro-democracy demonstrators across the Arab world. They have learned the value of unarmed mass movements organized on Facebook and other social media.
Last Sunday, thousands of Palestinians approached Israel's borders to claim, at least symbolically, their right of return on the anniversary of Israel's founding. Israeli troops opened fire and more than a dozen people were killed. While the numbers of protesters were relatively small, there are Arabic social media pages calling for such marches to the fences to occur with greater frequency, especially as September approaches and the Palestinian Authority seeks membership in the United Nations. If tens of thousands of Palestinians were to march, Israel would find itself in great difficulty.
The Obama administration has been trying to balance American support for Israel in the midst of the Arab democracy upheaval, while at the same time supporting the young democracy protesters. But it has been an uphill struggle, Arab analysts said. ''It's become fashionable now to 'dis' the Americans,'' said Ghaith al-Omari, a former Palestinian peace negotiator who is now a specialist on the region at the American Task Force on Palestine. ''The prevalent mood now is to say that the United States is no longer relevant, that the Arab Spring is happening without the help of the United States.''
The economic aid package that Mr. Obama will talk about on Thursday is meant to show democracy protesters, and Arab governments, that the United States stands behind the democracy movement and will reward governments that make reforms. Administration officials announced $1 billion in loan guarantees to Egypt, and $1 billion in debt swaps, along with trade and economic development proposals. Administration officials said an unspecified amount would be channeled to economic development help in Tunisia.
Mr. Obama's economic aid parallels a package of measures being prepared by the European Union. The union plans to mobilize more than 2 billion euros in investment and development money for Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, and other Middle Eastern countries, drawing on the resources of the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
''We're trying to pull together a kind of strategic approach,'' Catherine Ashton, the European Union's chief foreign policy official, said in an interview on Wednesday. ''This is our neighborhood.''
The European aid will focus both on the immediate need for cash and other support -- a team of monitors recently went to Tunisia to help officials prepare for elections -- as well as longer-term economic development.
Lady Ashton cited a plan by Egypt's Ministry of Planning to build one million residential houses over 20 years as an example of the projects that the European Union is supporting, because it combines investment, job creation and partnerships with European companies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two Palestinian men with rocks during clashes with the Israeli police on Sunday near Ramallah. (PHOTOGRAPH BY URIEL SINAI/GETTY IMAGES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); RELIGION (53%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



615 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pressures Syria By Sanctioning Leader

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and ANTHONY SHADID; Steven Lee Myers reported from Washington, and Anthony Shadid from Beirut, Lebanon. Hwaida Saad and an employee of The New York Times contributed reporting from Beirut.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States intensified political and economic pressure on Syria on Wednesday by imposing sanctions on President Bashar al-Assad and six other senior Syrian officials in the wake of a bloody crackdown on political protests in the country.
The sanctions against Syria reflected mounting American frustration that Mr. Assad's government was ignoring international condemnation by not pursuing a peaceful resolution to the popular uprising that has swept the country since March. The European Union's chief foreign policy official, in Washington for talks, said that the group's 27 member nations were also considering a significant expansion of sanctions. 
Although senior administration officials left open the possibility that Mr. Assad could still negotiate a way to remain in power, their tone has sharpened drastically as Syrian security forces continued to resort to ''wanton violence, intimidation and repression,'' as one official put it Wednesday. The official echoed remarks by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton last week that inched the United States closer to calling explicitly for Mr. Assad's ouster, saying that ''the country cannot go back to the way it was before.''
''President Assad has a clear choice: it's either to lead this transition to democracy, or to leave,'' the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity under rules imposed by the administration.
Until now, American and European officials have criticized the Syrian government but stopped short of sanctioning Mr. Assad, who is still sometimes viewed as a reformer willing at least to make gestures of political openness only to be stymied by more hard-line elements in Syria's ruling elite. The administration has concluded, officials said, that its measured approach was not working.
It remains to be seen how punishing sanctions will be, but coordinated sanctions by the United States and Europe could have an economic bite, in addition to a political one, something that officials in Syria seem genuinely to fear.
The sanctions freeze any assets Mr. Assad and the others have in American financial institutions, and prohibit trade with them. Similar sanctions against Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, have led to the seizure of more than $36 billion in assets, according to the Treasury Department.
In addition to Mr. Assad, the administration sanctioned Syria's vice president, its prime minister, interior and defense ministers, and the directors of military intelligence and political security, as well as additional Syrian security and intelligence services.
The Treasury Department also imposed sanctions on the commander of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, Qassem Soleimani, and a deputy. The senior administration official said that Iran was providing ''material support'' to the government's crackdown.
Catherine Ashton, the European Union's senior foreign policy official, said in an interview that the intensifying sanctions were ''a strongly political signal that the relationship has changed fundamentally'' between Syria and outside nations.
''It's more than impatience,'' she said. ''It's a recognition from the international community that this killing of people -- this terrible violence -- is totally unacceptable,'' she said. ''We have to use what we have available to us, which is both through the political expression of sanctions and their effect -- make that point loudly, clearly, directly.''
In Syria, Mr. Assad has repeatedly promised to make changes in the political system -- ending emergency rule, for example -- and yet has continued with a broad and brutal crackdown. That has increased his diplomatic isolation. ''He says, 'I will do it,' '' Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey said in a television interview. ''But I am having a hard time understanding if he is being prevented from doing it or if he is hesitating.''
The sanctions come amid growing signs that the Syrian government feels emboldened after staggering in the face of an unprecedented challenge to 40 years of rule by the Assad family. Syrian officials now say they believe they have the upper hand, and talk of putting an end in weeks, not months, to protests that erupted across the breadth of the country, from the southern steppe and Mediterranean coast to the outskirts of Damascus.
In an interview published Wednesday with a privately owned Syrian newspaper aligned with the government, Mr. Assad declared that the tumult was coming to a close and acknowledged that his security forces had made mistakes in a crackdown so broad that hundreds of detainees were being held in schools and soccer fields.
Human rights advocates have said at least 700 people have been killed and 10,000 arrested as the military laid siege to at least four towns and cities.
''President Assad gave assurances that Syria had overcome the crisis it went through and that events were coming to an end,'' the daily quoted him as saying. The statements could be read as a rhetorical exercise, but they seemed to mirror at least an attempt on the part of the government to suggest a greater openness in the wake of the unrest.
The government has also reached out to leading dissidents -- among them Aref Dalila, Michel Kilo and Louay Hussein -- and promised that a national dialogue would begin. While it continues to arrest activists, it has released some of the most high-profile dissidents, including Riad al-Seif, a former lawmaker.
The three dissidents, who met with Bouthaina Shaaban, a presidential adviser, said a dialogue could begin only once the authorities had agreed to their demands -- the right to protest peacefully, the withdrawal of plainclothes security forces from the streets and permission for journalists to enter dozens of towns and villages hit by the crackdown. Mr. Hussein said they expected a reply from Ms. Shaaban in a day or two.
''I understand this as the government saying security operations are over and that now we are going to adopt political solutions,'' Mr. Hussein said by telephone. ''Because thinking the protests are over is wrong. The protests did not stop, and they will not stop.''
Despite the promises of reform, Syrian security forces kept up their assault on Tel Kalakh, a town near the Lebanese border, where human rights groups say at least 27 people have been killed since Saturday when army troops, backed by tanks, entered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SYRIA (96%); EUROPE (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



616 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; travel

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: A Fresh Glow for the New York Public Library; 
T Magazine

BYLINE: ELAINE SCIOLINO


HIGHLIGHT: To celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Fifth Avenue building, the library will be lighted up, its columns, arches and majestic lions bathed in warm white for the first time in its history.

 BODY:
When Paul LeClerc, the president of the New York Public Library, was preparing to unveil his Beaux-Arts Fifth Avenue beauty after a $50 million, three-year renovation, he knew that he would need to show it in literally the best light possible. So he went to Paris to consult Francois Jousse, who was then City Hall's chief engineer for "doctrine, expertise and technical control" - something like the lighting director of the City of Light. Mr. Jousse took Mr. LeClerc on tours of Paris by night, showing him lighting canisters, electrical wiring and spotlight colors of the city's monuments, official buildings, bridges and boulevards. 
Along the way, Mr. Jousse revealed a secret about the Petit Palais, a Beaux-Arts wonder in its own right that becomes one of the city's most beautiful buildings at night. The trick was hiding spotlights in the tops of streetlamps as part of the building's restoration several years ago. Mr. LeClerc was so seduced by the idea that he persuaded the mayor of New York to ask the mayor of Paris to send Jousse to New York for consultations. He would have loved to have lighted up the library himself, but he spoke not a word of English and chained-smoked foul-smelling cigarillos. But Mr. Jousse's adornment of the Petit Palais nonetheless served as a model for the library. And on May 23, the glow of Paris will come to Fifth Avenue. To celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Fifth Avenue building, the library will be lighted up, its columns, arches and majestic lions bathed in warm white for the first time in its history. 
"This is one of the greatest Beaux-Arts buildings in America, and it's going to be as gorgeous as any building in Paris at night," Mr. LeClerc said. "We'll flip the switch and knock everybody's socks off."
The lighting is the climax of the renovation, which included the restoration of the roof, sculptures and bronze window frames; the cleaning of all of the building's white marble; and the carving by hand of more than 2,000 new pieces of marble for the facade by master stone-carvers.
To light the exterior, the library chose the lighting consultant Claude R. Engle, who had lighted, among other structures, I. M. Pei's pyramid at the Louvre and the Pompidou Center in Paris; the viaduct in the French city of Millau; the World Trade Center; the World Bank headquarters; and the Bilbao Metro system. The company's goal was to illuminate the library's facade at an angle, which shows subtlety of detail, rather than to deliver a solid white mass. Mr. Engle mounted lights on 22-foot-high posts on the north and south sides of the plaza and on some of the highest street lights across Fifth Avenue. A stronger beam will shine on the top of the south facade, with light fading as it hits bottom - not unlike the south face of Notre Dame in Paris.
"We didn't want a floodlit castle on the hill that had no life in it," said Claude R. Engle Jr., who worked with his father on the project. "We didn't want to turn the library into a mausoleum. A glow had to come from within, like the glow of a person's eyes."
For Mr. LeClerc, a scholar of Voltaire and the 18th-century French enlightenment, who will end his 18-year tenure at the helm of the library at the end of June, the lighting project is both a fitting and a sentimental farewell. "A student of the Enlightenment who runs a library inspired by the Enlightenment seeks to bring the lighting he's seen in Paris to New York," he said. "It's perfect."
An earlier version of this post misidentified the year 2011 as the 100th anniversary as that of the New York Public Library. It is actually the 100th anniversary of the library's building on Fifth Avenue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (86%); SCULPTURE (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); CITIES (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Claude R. Engle; Francois Jousse; I. M. Pei; new york public library; Paul LeClerc; petit palais; Travel

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



617 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Contrarian Investor Shuns Hot Idea for Bigger Picture

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Peter Thiel is an entrepreneur turned venture capitalist and investor whose macroperspective defines his investments in start-ups and securities.

 BODY:
As investors clamor for shares of social media darlings, Peter Thiel is avoiding the frenzy.
"Is Twitter worth $7 billion?" the venture capitalist said.
"The broader question is, Is it going to help people have a much higher quality of living? And I think on that score, its benefit is a lot less."
Mr. Thiel - Facebook's first outside investor and a co-founder of PayPal - is not just knocking the competition. He has a visceral aversion to market exuberance. By the time an idea like social networking is widely accepted, Mr. Thiel, 43, thinks it is passe.
"He's always starting with the premise of, What does everyone else believe that's erroneous?" said Keith Rabois, a friend of Mr. Thiel's and former PayPal executive.
Mr. Thiel, an entrepreneur turned investor, is more than a simple iconoclast. He is also the founder of the hedge fund Clarium Capital Management and a full-time prognosticator who says he makes "determinant views of the future." His macroperspective defines his investments in start-ups and securities.
He's focused on what he sees as a lack of innovation in the United States. Although the last 40 years have brought advancements in computers and the Web, Mr. Thiel is nostalgic for the 1960s, when people were still dreaming of putting a man on the moon. He describes the decade - and the 200 years that preceded it - as a "golden era" for technology.
"Innovation slowed down dramatically after the 1960s," Mr. Thiel said. "We are not focused enough on getting back to a culture of innovation - people are just trying to figure out ways to coast."
Mr. Thiel is shunning the most popular Internet start-ups because they are not "taking civilization to the next level." Instead, he's placing bets in health care, biotechnology and artificial intelligence companies - areas most of his peers have shied away from. His venture capital firm, Founders Fund, has made investments in Halcyon Molecular, a DNA sequencing start-up; Practice Fusion, an electronic health record system; and SpaceX, a spaceship builder.
According to Mr. Thiel, not enough energy is spent tackling big, challenging problems, like space exploration. Instead, many people are chasing incremental progress and short-term gains.
Part of the problem, he says, is society's faith in higher education, which he has long called "a great bubble." Colleges and universities, Mr. Thiel argues, are lulling the younger generation into a false sense of security and chaining them to hefty student loans, which pushes them into low-risk jobs.
"Universities are like the General Motors of the 1970s," said Mr. Thiel, a graduate of Stanford University and Stanford Law School. "They're incredibly dominant, incredibly arrogant and impervious to change."
His nonprofit organization, the Thiel Foundation, is vetting candidates under the age of 20 for 20 fellowships. Each recipient will be awarded a $100,000 grant to leave college and pursue entrepreneurial projects.
Although the initiative has caused controversy among staunch supporters of higher education, the program has attracted 400 applicants, many from top-tier schools. Mr. Thiel, who plans to announce the winners next week, says he's not advocating that everyone drop out. But he does want students to consider their options more carefully.
"I don't think there's anything controversial about an education bubble," he said. "Price is up by a factor of 10; quality hasn't really changed. There's something really crazy going on here."
What is intriguing about Mr. Thiel is that for all his titles - and there are many, including entrepreneur, movie producer, lawyer and derivatives trader - his approach is generally consistent. According to several friends and former employees, Mr. Thiel ponders major societal and economic issues and then identifies the contrarian strands. He also places a huge premium on intellectuals who, like him, think about the big picture. Mr. Rabois, who worked at Clarium in 2003, recalls a wave of new employees, "brainiacs," who were hired at the hedge fund without specific roles.
"People would show up for work, and nobody had any idea what they were supposed to do," Mr. Rabois said. "Peter is a people investor. His basic philosophy is that you wouldn't just sit there, you would create value."
Despite his consistent strategy, results have been mixed. As a venture capitalist, he's realized outsize gains, but as a hedge fund manager, he's struggled to stay in the black.
His singular stake in Facebook, a $500,000 investment, is worth roughly $1.5 billion, based on conservative estimates. Mr. Thiel, an investor in Zynga and LinkedIn, sold PayPal to eBay for $1.5 billion in 2002.
In stark contrast, Clarium, based in San Francisco, has posted three straight years of declines. The macrofund surged in the first half of 2008 to more than $7 billion in assets, according to several former employees who were not authorized to talk publicly. But it tumbled soon after. In late 2008, Mr. Thiel bought stock futures too soon amid the panic.
"When the financial markets were collapsing, Peter thought that since all the problems were now out, the authorities would throw everything they could against it," said Patrick Wolff, a former managing director of Clarium. "He was right, but he made that bet at the wrong time."
By the end of 2010, the fund had about $680 million, the bulk of it from his personal assets. Mr. Thiel declined to comment on Clarium's performance.
"When you make a venture capital investment, no one values it day to day," said Tammer Kamel, a hedge fund adviser whose clients include former Clarium investors. "The liquid financial markets have little patience for contrarian investors."
Mr. Thiel is still active at Clarium, but those close to the company say his daily involvement has diminished. He says he is logging more hours in the office, but admits to spending more time on his venture capital and philanthropic pursuits.
Today, the fund is operating under the assumption that the macropicture is in a "holding pattern" and it is primarily executing "short-term tactical trading," he said. It also has a sizable stake in Palantir Technologies, a data analytics start-up co-founded by Mr. Thiel. Palantir recently raised $50 million from a group of investors at a multibillion-dollar valuation.
When asked which investor he most emulates, Mr. Thiel did not name any venture capitalists or hedge fund masters, like George Soros or Stanley Druckenmiller. After some thought, he named Howard Hughes, the aviator, movie producer and business mogul, who died a recluse.
"He was very underrated," Mr. Thiel said.

        
Founders Fund said to Raise $107.2 Million
        
From Gambits to Gambler: One Man's Path

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); STARTUPS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (75%); SPACE EXPLORATION (69%); DNA (66%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (61%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (50%); GENOMICS (50%) Clarium Capital Management; Facebook; Founders Fund; Palantir; PayPal; Peter Thiel; Social Media; Thiel Foundation; Entrepreneurship; Social Networking (Internet); Venture Capital; Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Media; Technology; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PayPal

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



618 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Disability

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A West Virginia judge has an approval rate in disability cases unlike any other, highlighting the problems with the program.

 BODY:
As we've noted here before, the federal disability program cost about $190 billion last year, in payments to disabled workers and health care for them. That's the equivalent of roughly $1,500 in taxes for every American household.
Many are these workers are truly disabled. For others, though, disability has become a shadow program of long-term unemployment benefits, providing modest payments to people who probably can work and would do so if they could find a job with decent pay.
In The Wall Street Journal today, Damian Paletta has an article about a West Virginia administrative law judge who may provide the single best example of the system's problems. Since the start of last year, the judge, David B. Daugherty, has heard more than 2,000 disability cases. He has awarded benefits in all but four of those cases, an approval rate of 99.8 percent.
No other judge in the country who hears remotely so many cases has an approval rate anywhere near as high.
Some of the most incredible details in Mr. Paletta's story appear long after the front-page portion:As Mr. Daugherty's numbers rose, judges, staff and local attorneys began complaining about the volume of cases brought before the judge by one Kentucky lawyer.The lawyer, Eric C. Conn, runs his Social Security practice out of a collection of connected mobile homes in Stanville, Ky., where he erected a giant statue of Abraham Lincoln in the parking lot. His smiling face adorns billboards up and down Highway 23, and his slogan is "he gets the job done." Mr. Conn hired [Algernon] Tinsley, [a] former Huntington judge, and promotes him on local billboards, too. Mr. Conn often brings an inflatable replica of himself to events. His Web site address is mrsocialsecurity.com.
Judges and staff in the Huntington office have complained to supervisors that Mr. Daugherty assigns himself Mr. Conn's cases, including some that were assigned to other judges, two former judges and several staff said. Cases are supposed to be assigned randomly.
According to a court schedule of Mr. Daugherty's day reviewed by The Wall Street Journal dated Feb. 22, 2006, Mr. Daugherty held 20 hearings spaced 15 minutes apart for Mr. Conn and his clients in a Prestonsburg, Ky., field office. Such days can be a bonanza for lawyers: The average fee for one approval is between $3,000 and $3,500 and can go as high as $6,000.

        
Men, Unemployment and Disability
        
The Largest Tax Breaks for Individuals 
        
Imagining the End of the Bush Tax Cuts
        
Moving From Disability Benefits to Jobs
        
The Dependence Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DISABLED WORKERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); JUDGES (75%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%) deficit; disability; Disability Insurance; Judges; West Virginia

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



619 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: City Unemployment Rate Dips to 8.6%

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The unemployment rate continued to decrease in April, though that is partly attributed to a rise in the number of residents looking for work.

 BODY:
Even though New York City's stalled construction industry has not begun to hire back laid-off workers, the city's unemployment rate dipped again in April to its lowest level in more than two years.
The city's official unemployment rate was 8.6 percent last month, down from 8.7 percent in March, the State Labor Department reported Thursday. That drop kept the city's rate below the national rate of 9 percent and continued the slow but steady improvement that the local job market has shown since the beginning of last year, when the city's unemployment rate was at 10 percent.
Statewide, private-sector employment rose by 43,800 jobs in April, the largest one-month gain in more than 10 years. The state's unemployment rate fell to 7.9 percent, from 8 percent in March. The rates for the city and the state were the lowest since March 2009.
The official unemployment rates do not account for people who are too discouraged about their prospects to look for a job, or are working part-time because they cannot find a full-time position. Still, the Labor Department said more than 750,000 residents of the state were unemployed in April.
The department does not provide an estimate of monthly employment changes in the city that is adjusted for seasonal fluctuations in hiring and can be compared with the statewide numbers. But a private economist, Barbara Byrne Denham, of Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services firm in Manhattan, calculated that the city added 7,600 private-sector jobs last month.
"The industries that are doing well in New York are generally doing well nationally," Ms. Denham said. A notable exception, she said, is manufacturing, which is "thriving in the U.S. but not so in New York."
Despite the gains, the city had 69,000 fewer jobs last month than it had in April 2008, before the recession took hold, Ms. Denham said. That amounts to a decline of less than 2 percent from the peak, compared with a nationwide loss of about 5 percent, she said.
Part of the decline in the city's unemployment rate in April came from a drop in the number of residents looking for jobs, said James P. Brown, principal economist for the State Labor Department. The city's labor force has been shrinking in recent months, probably because people have decided that a job search would be fruitless, Mr. Brown said.
Still, he said, the number of jobs in the city rose last month at more than three times the usual rate for April. That gain brought the total increase in private-sector jobs in the city over the last 12 months to 44,400, raising total private employment in the city to 3.18 million. But nearly half of that gain was offset by a drop in government jobs of 18,000.
The private-sector gain over the last year amounted to an increase of 1.4 percent, slightly below the nationwide rise of 1.7 percent. Mr. Brown said the city's job-growth rate was about normal for the last several years, except during the recent recession and the brief boom that preceded it.
"The general picture has been sort of settling in at about 1.5 percent over-the-year employment growth," Mr. Brown said. "We've actually been pretty consistent. We rarely see 2 percent or more."
He said banking, real estate and professional services led the way in hiring in April. The leisure and hospitality sector, which includes hotels, restaurants and museums, continued to add jobs at a healthy pace, he said. But construction did not bounce back as it usually does after the winter months.
"It's lower this year than last year, and that was lower than the year before," Mr. Brown said.

        
City Unemployment Rate Ticks Down to 8.7 Percent
        
City's Unemployment Surpasses National Rate
        
BronxAtWork.com Still Isn't Working
        
Podcast: Leave and Let Leave
        
How Likely Are You to Leave New York?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%) economy; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; New York City; Housing & Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



620 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Manufacturing Trade (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The deficit is smaller.

 BODY:
I've been doing some number-crunching on trade issues, and thought I'd put something up for those who are interested: a picture of the recent improvement in the US manufacturing trade position.
This isn't quite as easy as you might think. We used to use the "nonag-nonoil" balance provided by the BEA -- nonagricultural exports, nonoil imports -- as a quickly available proxy for manufacturing trade, but that's not quite as good as it used to be because America now imports a significant amount of food. So I've been using an adjusted nonag-nonoil that subtracts food, feed, and agricultural inputs from the import side. Here's that balance as a percentage of GDP:
The weaker dollar really has made a big difference.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



621 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: A 'Military Covenant' for America

BYLINE: DON GOMEZ


HIGHLIGHT: As an American veteran, I'm interested in the military covenant as a potential framework in addressing the civilian-military divide.

 BODY:
In Britain, two news items dominated the airwaves this past weekend: the Eurovision Song Contest finale and the proposal to make into law the "military covenant" - the informal pact between the British government and members of the armed forces, promising fair treatment in return for military service. While the value of bringing something like Eurovision to the United States may be debatable, there may be value in exploring the military covenant, especially as a potential framework for bridging what we know as the civilian-military divide.
The term "military covenant" was introduced in Britain in 2000 and is used by political leaders and the media in discussing the informal pact that exists between those who volunteered to serve in the British military and the nation. Its purpose is to ensure that those who served will be treated with respect and receive the benefits they've earned. 
As defined by the Ministry of Defense:
"Soldiers are bound by service. The nature of service is inherently unequal: soldiers may have to give more than they receive. Ultimately, they may be called upon to make personal sacrifices - including death - in the service of the nation.
"In putting the needs of the Nation, the Army and others before their own, they forgo some of the rights enjoyed by those outside the Armed Forces. So, at the very least, British soldiers should always expect the Nation and their commanders to treat them fairly, to value and respect them as individuals, and to sustain and reward them and their families."
The military covenant is not a law. It's more like a guiding principle, an idea that exists to help steer decision making - kind of like Google's "Don't be evil" mandate. Making it into a law will, for the first time, give it teeth, and veterans may be able to challenge the government if their needs are not being met in conjunction with the covenant. On this, I'm skeptical that a guiding principle can be effectively legislated and enforced. I'm also disappointed that the military covenant needs teeth - shouldn't it just exist because it is the right thing to do? 
It reminds me of a scene from the movie "The Break-Up," in which Jennifer Aniston's character tries to compel Vince Vaughn's character to do the dishes. Eventually he begrudgingly agrees, but she remains upset because she didn't want him to do the dishes; she wanted him to want to do the dishes - to want to be helpful because it is the right thing to do. Likewise, I'm not sure that forcing the British government to uphold its end of a sacred deal is best. Perhaps it is the only way to ensure that deal is upheld, though.
Still, as an American veteran, I'm interested in the military covenant as a potential framework in addressing the civilian-military divide. In the United States, we don't have an all-encompassing concept that captures the pact that should exist between members of the military and the rest of the nation. Instead, we have hundreds of nonprofits like Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, of which I'm a member, that advocate to remind our politicians and country about the service and sacrifice of our nation's service members. To support the reintegration of veterans, we have a multitude of individual laws and efforts intended to address the numerous challenges veterans face when they return home, like the current effort to lower veteran unemployment.
While these efforts are necessary in ensuring that veterans receive the care they have earned, something is missing. Most veterans will attest to the strange feeling of coming home and not feeling as if the rest of the country really understands what it is they went through. I remember being back in New York City while on leave from Iraq, and it hit me while riding the subway, staring down the length of the car, watching everyone silently ignore one another. I couldn't help but think how weird it was, that thousands of miles away my friends and buddies were fighting in Iraq, a bomb was blowing up somewhere, and I was sure that nobody on that subway car had any idea. Then I remembered that in a week, I myself would be back in Iraq.
The civilian-military divide is not a new idea. It has been written and talked about extensively, and top military and political leaders have sounded the alarm that the growing rift is harming our nation. Yet very few solutions have been offered to address the problem. Instituting the draft wouldn't help, since the size of the military is still small proportionate to the population. Yes, a part of the populace more representative of the nation would serve, but they would still make up less than 1 percent of the country. The recent White House initiative, Joining Forces, shows promise, and I'm hopeful that through it the civilian-military divide can be somewhat bridged.
But what about a military covenant here in the United States? I think an argument can be made that one already exists, although in an unofficial capacity and without a title. Politicians speak at length about the need to take care of veterans, but that argument needs to be made and remade daily, and advocacy groups are forced to poke and prod in order to utilize benefits already earned and remind the public that we're still fighting two (three?) wars. When British politicians speak about veterans' issues, they invoke the military covenant, which conveys a stronger message than a lengthy argument as to why a specific veterans' bill should be passed or an explanation of why it is good business to hire a veteran. The word "covenant" invokes images of a sacred trust, not just a simple contract. It also suggests that everyone is involved, since a covenant requires agreement between multiple parties. Members of the military are required to serve their nation honorably, and in return, the nation and public are required to ensure that those service members and veterans are treated fairly and with respect.
Taking a cue from the British, then, if we were to enact a military covenant, it should also be made into law (despite my own feelings of wanting the nation and population to want to do the dishes - to want to care). With this, if a veteran feels he or she is not receiving fair treatment, then the military covenant can be invoked as a reminder and to act as a benchmark. Initiatives would be examined to see if they are meeting the "spirit" of the military covenant.
Establishing a military covenant in the United States will not solve all problems faced by members of the military and veterans. Nor will it eliminate the civilian-military divide. But I think it would be a net plus in addressing both of these issues, and considering the scale, a serious look at enacting our own military covenant is worthwhile.
Don Gomez is an Iraq war veteran and spokesman for Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. He served two tours in Iraq with the 82nd Airborne Division in 2003 and 2005. You can follow him on Twitter @dongomezjr.

        
Why Did I Survive?
        
On Military Awards and Perceptions of Them
        
It's the Economy, Soldier
        
John Burns Q and A: Ending the War in Iraq
        
Wartime Soldier, Conflicted Mom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); VETERANS (89%); ARMIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%) Afghanistan; Iraq; U.S. military; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Defense and Military Forces; Iraq War (2003- ); Veterans; A Soldier Writes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (65%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (65%)

PERSON: VINCE VAUGHN (50%); JENNIFER ANISTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



622 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: When Regulators Side With the Industries They Regulate

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks, seems determined to ignore the lessons of its recent regulatory failures, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, the former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, is the co-author of "13 Bankers."
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is one the most important bank regulators in the United States - an independent agency within the Treasury Department that is responsible for "national banks" (for more on who regulates what in the United States, see this primer).
Over the last decade, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency repeatedly demonstrated that it was very much on the side of banks, for example with regard to fending off attempts to impose more consumer protection. (James Kwak and I covered this in "13 Bankers," and those details have not been disputed by the agency or anyone taking its side.)
After suffering some serious and well-deserved loss of prestige during the financial crisis of 2007-9, the comptroller's office survived the Dodd-Frank reform legislation and is now back to pushing the same agenda as before. In its view and that of its senior staff - including key people who remain from before the crisis - the "safety and soundness" of banks requires, above all, not a lot of protection for consumers. 
This is a mistaken, anachronistic and dangerous belief.Probably the most egregious mistake made by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency during the subprime boom was to push back against state officials who wanted to curtail malpractice in housing loans, including predatory lending. 
The comptroller's office ultimately lost that case before the Supreme Court, but its delaying action meant that an important potential brake on abuse and excess was not available - which contributed to the worst business practices that took hold in 2006 and 2007 (see this nice summary or Eliot Spitzer's account).
Naturally, post-debacle the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency talks an ostensibly better game but, as Joe Nocera put it, "it sure looks as though the country's top bank regulator is back to its old tricks." In discussions regarding a potential settlement on mortgage foreclosures - and how they have been handled - the comptroller's office has supported an outcome that is more favorable to the banks (see the Nocera column for more details).
Now it is again insisting that federal regulation pre-empts the ability of states to regulate in a way that would protect consumers.
In a letter on May 12 to Senator Thomas Carper, Democrat of Delaware, the agency asserted that its pre-emption regulations are consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act (see this interpretation by Sidley Austin, a law firm, which I draw on). There is a lot of legalese in the letter but the basic issue is simple - are states allowed to protect their consumers vis-a-vis national banks, or do they have to rely on the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, despite its weak track record? 
The comptroller's office is clear - the states are pre-empted, meaning that national comptroller regulations will always overrule them on the issues that matter. (As a technical matter, the issue comes down to what is known as visitation: whether state-level authorities can gain access to bank documents if the bank or the comptroller's office has not already determined that there is a problem.)
The American Bankers Association was, not surprisingly, delighted: "The O.C.C.'s action helps clarify the rules of the road for national banks and how they serve their customers."Richard K. Davis, chief executive of U.S. Bancorp and then chairman of the Financial Services Roundtable, a powerful lobbying group, emphasized the importance of the pre-emption issue to national banks in March 2010, during the Dodd-Frank financial reform debate in the Senate: "If we had one thing to fight for, it would be to protect pre-emption."
It is hard to know which would seem more incredible to a second grader: that we left in place the same agency that was responsible for a significant part of past misbehavior, or that this agency seems determined to continue with the same philosophy and policies.
The problem is not that the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency sees its primary duty as the "safety and soundness" of the financial system. Rather, the danger to the public arises because it has consistently taken the view that the best way to protect banks - and keep them out of financial trouble - is to allow them to be harsh with consumers.
This is worse than short-sighted - it completely ignores all externalities, such as how business practices and ethics evolve, and it pays no attention to even the most basic macroeconomic dynamics, such as the fact that we have a credit cycle during which we should expect lenders to "race to the bottom" in terms of standards.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency should have been abolished by Dodd-Frank. Unfortunately, it is too late for Congress to revisit this issue. President Obama should at the very least nominate a new head of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency - the job has been open since August of last year - and a serious reformer could make a great deal of difference.
Under its current leadership and with its current approach, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is putting our financial system into harm's way. The lessons of 2007-9 have been completely lost on it. As Talleyrand said of the Bourbons, "They have learned nothing and forgotten nothing."

        
Battle of the Bank Policy Heavyweights
        
Is the New York Fed Making a Big Mistake? 
        
Bankers' Pay on the Line Again
        
The Problem With the F.D.I.C.'s Powers
        
Big Banks Have a Powerful New Opponent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); FAIR LENDING (69%); PREDATORY LENDING (69%); LAWYERS (65%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%) banking regulation; consumers; Daily Economist; Dodd-Frank; financial crisis; Simon Johnson; Banking and Financial Institutions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

COMPANY: SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%)

PERSON: TOM CARPER (58%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



623 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America Sheds Remaining BlackRock Stake

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: BlackRock has agreed to buy back the bank's remaining interest in the giant asset manager in a transaction valued at $2.55 billion.

 BODY:
8:39 p.m. | Updated 
Bank of America is getting out of its investment in BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager.
On Thursday, the company agreed to sell its remaining 7 percent stake in BlackRock for $2.55 billion, or $187.65 a share - a roughly 3.6 percent discount to the average closing price over the last 15 days. Thomas Montag, president of Bank of America's global banking and markets group, will continue to serve on BlackRock's board.
"There is a long history of collaboration between Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and BlackRock that focuses on providing exceptional investment solutions for our respective clients," Brian T. Moynihan, president and chief executive of Bank of America, said in a statement. "Our decision to monetize our stake in BlackRock will have no effect on our commitment to continuing this very successful partnership."
Bank of America's decision makes strategic sense. Looking to streamline operations and raise capital in recent years, the bank had previously concluded that BlackRock was not a core asset. Investors had long felt that Bank of America did not have the scale to be a force in the asset management business and could put its cash to better use elsewhere.
The alliance was formed in 2006, when Merrill Lynch reached a deal to sell its asset management division to BlackRock in exchange for a 49.8 percent stake. The discussions between Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of BlackRock, and E. Stanley O'Neal, Merrill Lynch's chief executive, began over a breakfast at 3 Guys Restaurant, a diner on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Bank of America acquired Merrill Lynch during the financial crisis in 2008.
BlackRock said it intended to finance the deal using available cash and a total of $2 billion of commercial paper, medium-term and long-term debt. Shares of BlackRock closed on Thursday at $198.10.
"This stock repurchase and our recent dividend increase evidence our continued commitment to enhancing shareholder value through effective use of our significant free cash flow, while maintaining our strong liquidity and capital position," Mr. Fink said in a statement.

        
New Chief at BofA; U.S. Delays Selling Citi Stake
        
Bank of America Cuts Back Its Prop Trading Desk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CASH FLOW (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (67%); RESTAURANTS (64%) Bank of America; Bank of America-Merrill Lynch; Brian Moynihan; Laurence D. Fink; Merrill Lynch &; Fink, Laurence D; Moynihan, Brian T; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Bank of America Corporation; BlackRock Inc; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); BLACKROCK INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; BlackRock Inc

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); BLK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (90%); LAURENCE D FINK (89%); STAN O'NEAL (58%) Fink, Laurence D; Moynihan, Brian T

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



624 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Cut Mortgage Paperwork

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: The new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is trying to reduce mortgage paperwork by combining disclosure forms.

 BODY:
Anyone who has applied for a mortgage knows it can involve a daunting amount of paperwork. The new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is taking a step toward reducing at least some of the pages required by federal law.
The bureau is trying to combine two federally required disclosure forms, which now total five pages, into a single form that makes clear the costs and risks of the loan.
The two forms are the Truth in Lending Act disclosure and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act's Good Faith Estimate of settlement service charges, which all borrowers must receive within three days of filing a loan application. (I have particularly bad memories of the good faith estimate form causing debate during the closing of our first home years ago.) The two forms are meant to convey basic facts about home loans to help consumers compare different loan options and interest rates, but they're often redundant and difficult to understand.
So as part of its "Know Before You Owe" project, the new agency is testing two form prototypes, with the goal of proposing a new, combined form next year. "With a clear, simple form, consumers will be in a better position to answer two basic questions: Can I afford this mortgage and can I get a better deal somewhere else?" Elizabeth Warren, the acting director of the new bureau, said in a news release.
The testing will include in-person interviews with borrowers in English and Spanish, in six cities: Albuquerque; Baltimore; Birmingham, Ala.; Chicago; Los Angeles; and Springfield, Mass. There will be five rounds of testing and revision through September. The agency will then further refine the draft form into a final proposed version by next summer.
The agency is also interested in feedback from consumers and advocacy groups. Both of the proposed documents are two pages long. You can view the first proposed form here, and the second one here.
Or, you can go here to view the two versions together and submit comments.
What do you think of the forms? Does anything stand out that could be made simpler?

        
Where All the Mortgage Documents Go
        
Jumbo Mortgages: Price Differences Are Shrinking
        
The Long, Winding Road to a Foreclosure Purchase
        
Answers About the Foreclosure Crisis
        
Share Your Foreclosure Purchase War Stories

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT (78%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) Buying a Home; Mortgages; Warren, Elizabeth; Consumer Protection; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (94%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (79%) Warren, Elizabeth

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (53%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (52%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); ALABAMA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



625 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Liberty Media Offers to Buy Barnes & Noble

BYLINE: JULIE BOSMAN


HIGHLIGHT: John C. Malone's media company is offering $17 a share in cash, or $1.02 billion total, a 20 percent premium over Barnes &#038; Noble's closing stock price.

 BODY:
9:23 p.m. | Updated 
Barnes & Noble, the nation's largest book chain, said on Thursday it had received a proposal from Liberty Media to acquire the company, more than nine months after the bookseller put itself up for sale.
Liberty Media offered to pay $17 a share in cash, valuing the company at $1.02 billion. The offer represents a 20 percent premium to Barnes & Noble's closing stock price on Thursday. The stock last traded above $17 in February.
The offer caused the stock to jump in after-hours trading well above the offer price.
The proposal is contingent on the participation of Leonard Riggio, the chairman of Barnes & Noble, "both in terms of his continuing equity ownership and his continuing role in management," according to a statement from Barnes & Noble.
The offer came from an unexpected source. Liberty Media, a media conglomerate run by John C. Malone, has historically bought stakes in cable, satellite television and interactive companies, but not in bricks-and-mortar retail - one reason the continued participation of Mr. Riggio, a respected industry veteran for decades, could be a condition of the deal.
Barnes & Noble announced in August that its board was putting the company up for sale, saying that its stock was "significantly undervalued." It formed a special committee to review its options and enlisted Lazard as its financial adviser and Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell as its legal adviser.
Mr. Riggio said after the announcement in August that he was "willing and eager" to stay with the company in the years ahead.
Barnes & Noble said on Thursday that the special committee had not yet evaluated the proposal from Liberty Media, and warned shareholders that there was "no assurance" that a definitive offer to buy the company would be made.
Brick-and-mortar book retailers have been under pressure lately as the business has accelerated its shift from print to electronic. After years of declining sales and store traffic, Borders shook the publishing industry when it filed for Chapter 11 protection in February, promising to revamp the company's strategy for the digital age. It has closed hundreds of stores since then.
Barnes & Noble, which operates 705 retail stores and 623 college bookstores, has turned much of its attention to digital books - another factor that could interest Liberty, which has been involved in electronic commerce with investments in Expedia and drugstore.com, among others. Since 2009, the bookseller has introduced two dedicated e-readers, the Nook and the Nook Color. It has expanded its market share in the e-book business to at least 20 percent and successfully used its retail stores to promote and sell its e-readers.
On Tuesday, the company is expected to unveil another e-reader at an event at its Union Square store in Manhattan, at the start of BookExpo America, a large annual publishing convention.

        
Why Liberty Media Might Want Barnes & Noble
        
Barnes & Noble Looking Better as It Ages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); MARKET SHARE (72%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (69%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%) Barnes & Noble; John C. Malone; Leonard Riggio; Liberty Media; Malone, John C; Riggio, Leonard; Book Trade and Publishing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Barnes & Noble Incorporated; Liberty Media Corp; Barnes & Noble Incorporated|BKS|NYSE; Liberty Media Corp|LCAPA|NASDAQ; Media; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: MORRIS NICHOLS ARSHT & TUNNELL LLP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Barnes & Noble Incorporated; Liberty Media Corp

TICKER: Barnes & Noble Incorporated; BKS; NYSE; Barnes & Noble Incorporated; BKS; NYSE; Liberty Media Corp; LCAPA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (90%) Malone, John C; Riggio, Leonard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



626 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Middle East Speech Has Many American Audiences

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Thursday's speech by President Obama on the Middle East will play out in a domestic - and political - context as Mr. Obama seeks a second term in the White House.

 BODY:
Thursday's speech by President Obama on the upheaval in the Middle East is aimed at a global audience. But it will also play out in a domestic - and political - context as Mr. Obama seeks a second term in the White House.
Since taking office, Mr. Obama has sought to strike a balance between reaching out to the Muslim world while also combating terrorism and pushing for progress toward peace between Israel and the Palestinians. The as-yet unfulfilled promise of that approach, which he described in a speech in Cairo in 2009, helped win him the Nobel Peace Prize early in his presidency.
But the effort to construct a cohesive narrative for American voters about his administration's efforts in the region has proved more difficult. The peace process has been largely halted. The move away from Bush-era terrorism policies has gone more slowly than expected. And the uprisings in the Arab world have forced case-by-case decisions that sometimes appear contradictory.
"They need to make the case for why all of this stuff matters to Americans and give some narrative that makes sense for all the different things we are doing," said Marc Lynch, the director of the Institute for Middle East Studies at George Washington University.
Mr. Obama's decision to launch the raid in Pakistan that killed Osama bin Laden has clearly helped to define for Americans a new Obama story in the region. Thursday's speech will give the president the opportunity to put those actions in a broader context, Mr. Lynch said.
Jewish voters are a small but critical Democratic constituency in terms of both votes and fund-raising; Mr. Obama, a Democrat, won nearly 80 percent of the Jewish vote in the 2008 election. That support will be particularly important Mr. Obama, who has been viewed with suspicion by some Jewish voters because of his early efforts to put pressure on Israel to stop settlement construction.
"Pivoting into presidential campaign season, they are going to want to have in place a robust story to tell," said Mr. Lynch, who writes the Middle East blog for Foreign Policy magazine. "The more that they can choose a few clear themes that fit together into a clear story, the better."
Thursday's speech at the State Department is designed to be the first in a series of rhetorical opportunities for the president. On Friday, he will meet with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for a conversation that will be closely watched by the Jewish community in the United States.
And this weekend, Mr. Obama will address the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the largest pro-Israel lobby in the United States. Together, the post-speech events will give the president a chance to assert his support for Israel early in the 2012 campaign cycle.
White House aides who previewed the speech for reporters Wednesday said that the president would use the opportunity to speak about the Middle East and North Africa region as a whole and how its challenges relate to the United States.
"Now, having wound down the Iraq war and continuing to do so, and having taken out Osama bin Laden, we are beginning to turn the page to a more positive and hopeful future for U.S. policy in the region," a senior administration official said. "The president will have the opportunity to speak broadly about the change in the Middle East and North Africa, the implications for U.S. policy, and some concrete proposals for American policy going forward."
Whom will he be speaking to? Leaders and citizens in the Middle East, of course. But several different American audiences will also be listening carefully to what he says. Here are some of them:
* His 2012 rivals: Before Bin Laden was killed, the Republican candidates for president had begun attacking Mr. Obama as a weak, feckless leader with no backbone. That argument is more difficult to make now.
But Mr. Obama's rivals for the White House are not going to back away entirely from their criticisms of his foreign policy. They will be listening to his speech on Thursday for ways to criticize his policies toward Iran and his outreach to the Arab world.
They will also be watching closely for any evidence that Mr. Obama is being critical of Israel in the hopes they could use that as an electoral advantage.
* Liberals: Mr. Obama's base has been frustrated at times by his willingness to continue anti-terrorism policies put in place by his predecessor. The terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay - which remains open despite Mr. Obama's promise to close it - is a constant reminder of their dissatisfaction.
The speech gives Mr. Obama a chance to describe how his approach to the region fulfills his campaign promises and to claim that his policies have worked better than Mr. Bush's. That could help energize his base -- a crucial part of the path toward getting reelected.
* American Jews: The president's early decision to press Israel to end settlements was done in the hope that it might kick-start peace talks with the Palestinians. In fact, after the Israelis balked, the policy has so far failed to move the peace process along. The administration's top negotiator, former senator George Mitchell, quit last week.
But in the process, the tough-love approach to Israel caused friction between Mr. Obama and some Jewish voters. That could be particularly important in certain swing states like Florida, where there is a large Jewish population.
* Congress: The debates in the House and Senate during the next 18 months are likely to focus primarily on the domestic economy. But with the House under Republican control, leaders there may be looking for ways to question Mr. Obama's handling of foreign policy, especially in the volatile Middle East.
Republicans struggled at the height of the Middle East uprisings earlier this year, first criticizing the president's lack of action in Libya and then later criticizing the aggressive use of force in ways that Mr. Obama said would halt the slaughter of those leading the uprising.
Democratic lawmakers, too, will be watching the speech for clues to the defense they may have to mount to Republican criticism. Last year's extended debate over a nuclear treaty with Russia showed how differences over foreign policy can sometimes play out in the halls of Congress.President Obama gives a speech directed at the Muslim world in Cairo in 2009.

        
Will Obama Speech Address Region or Just Libya?
        
Foreign Policy Looms Large as 2012 Election Issue
        
Trump and Huckabee Leave Boring Race Behind
        
Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
        
Bush Aides Walk Delicate Line on Bin Laden

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (55%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (50%) barack obama; CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; Israel; Libya; Middle East; Republicans; Assad, Bashar Al-; Mitchell, George J; Mubarak, Hosni; Obama, Barack; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2012; United States International Relations; Foreign Policy (Magazine); Senate; United States; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%) Foreign Policy (Magazine); Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (78%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (55%) Assad, Bashar Al-; Mitchell, George J; Mubarak, Hosni; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (97%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Israel; Middle East; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



627 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Agency Calls For Increase In Oil Output

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
PARIS -- Expressing ''serious concern'' about elevated crude oil prices, the International Energy Agency on Thursday called for an increase in world oil production. It was an unusual move that highlighted consumer countries' frustration at the failure of oil-producing nations to lift output in the face of rising demand and tighter supply. 
Analysts suggested that the agency, which usually does not comment on oil producers' policies, was signaling a shift in stance to become more confrontational toward the main producers over their failure to increase the flow of oil to world markets.
The call for added production also appears to be a move by the agency, which represents 28 developed economies, to distance itself from the period under its departing chief, Nobuo Tanaka. It was seen by many as too accommodating to Saudi Arabia, and too content to accept the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries' narrative of blaming speculation, rather than market fundamentals, for high prices.
The agency's monthly Oil Market Report, respected by industry practitioners, has recently been warning about tightening market conditions as supply has not caught up with strong demand.
After a two-day meeting, the International Energy Agency's governing board issued a statement expressing ''serious concern'' at ''growing signs that the rise in oil prices since September is affecting the economic recovery by widening global imbalances, reducing household and business income and placing upward pressure on inflation and interest rates.''
As global demand for oil typically increases from May to August, ''there is a clear, urgent need for additional supplies on a more competitive basis to be made available to refiners to prevent a further tightening of the market,'' it said.
The agency's board also said it was prepared ''to consider using all tools that are at the disposal of I.E.A. member countries.'' That was seen by analysts as a veiled warning to OPEC that the agency could, in an extreme case, call for its member countries to agree to release emergency oil stocks if the market situation deteriorated.
''So far there hasn't been much reaction in the West to the high prices,'' said Leo Drollas, chief economist at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London. ''It now looks like they are being more assertive.''
Oil prices, which have been climbing since the end of last summer, have risen more sharply this year amid turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East. Light, sweet crude for July delivery fell $1.66 to $98.44 a barrel on Thursday in New York. It rose to almost $115 in April.
Despite commitments from Saudi Arabia, the biggest OPEC producer, to use its spare capacity to increase output and replace the supplies lost because of the uprising in Libya, the cartel's production is now running 1.3 million barrels a day below the level seen before the crisis, according to the I.E.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CARTELS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) SAUDI ARABIA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



628 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2059 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO

 BODY:
Around Town
Museums and Sites
Bartow-Pell Mansion Museum (Saturday) A bicycle ride to private and public gardens on City Island and Pelham Bay Park and an owl meet-and-greet are planned as part of the museum's celebration of Environmental Day. A horticulturist will be along for the bicycle ride, which is free and leaves the museum at 10:30 a.m. Some of the owls rescued by the group Wildlife in Need of Rescue and Rehabilitation (WINORR) will make personal appearances, along with a group representative who will discuss their care, from 3 to 5 p.m.; $10, $8 for members. Registration is required for both activities: (718) 885-1461. 895 Shore Road North, Pelham Bay Park, the Bronx , (718) 885-1461, bartowpellmansionmuseum.org.20110519
Historic Richmond Town (Saturday) A daylong sampling of the food and drink of Staten Island, along with cooking demonstrations and other activities, will take place during the third annual ''Uncorked!'' celebration, from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. The event is cosponsored by Time Warner Cable. 441 Clarke Avenue, Staten Island , (718) 351-1611, historicrichmondtown.org; $30, $8 for children 12 and younger.20110519 
Museum of Jewish Heritage (Sunday) Jewish liturgical music in Italy is the focus of ''La Roma Ebraica,'' a performance that will feature choir members from Rome's Tempio Maggiore or Great Synagogue. Verdi's ''Va Pensiero'' from ''Nabucco'' will open the concert, which also includes 19th century music from Florence, Livorno and Rome; at 2:30 p.m. 36 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan , (646) 437-4202, mjhnyc.org; $15, $10 for members.20110519
Events
Amsterdam Avenue Spring festival (Sunday) From noon to 5 p.m., between 77th and 89th Streets. Sponsored by the West Manhattan Chamber of Commerce.20110519
Brooklyn Craft Central Third Spring Market (Saturday) The market will feature items by artisans from the Northeast as well as food and other goods from neighborhood shops; 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. The Archway, Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass, Dumbo, Brooklyn , bkcraftcentral.com; Free admission20110519
Chelsea Reform Democratic Club 6th Annual Festival (Saturday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Avenue of the Americas, between 14th and 23rd Streets.20110519
Dance Parade (Saturday) An annual procession with thousands dancing down Broadway, beginning at 1 p.m. at 21st Street and ending at Tompkins Square Park, where a festival with dance performances and lessons will follow. Full route and other information: danceparade.org.20110519
Delta Dugout (Friday through Sunday) The Mets and the Yankees may be facing off against each other this weekend at Yankee Stadium, but current and former players of both teams will be taking part in a charitable event to raise funds for organizations endorsed by members of both teams. Sponsored by Delta Airlines, the three-day event will feature contests, auctions, give-aways and viewings of the Mets-Yankees games to be played this weekend; portions of the proceeds will benefit the organizations Harlem RBI and the David Wright Foundation; Friday and Saturday, 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Sunday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Madison Square Park, 23rd Street, between Madison and Fifth Avenues , delta.com; Free admission.20110519
Earth Celebrations: Hudson River Pageant (Saturday) The third annual celebration to draw attention to climate change and restoration projects for the Hudson River, will begin at 1 p.m. in Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan. The procession of costumed marchers and puppets will continue along the waterfront, passing more than 10 sites where performances and other events will be taking place - among them a water dance and an oyster planting- and ending at Horatio Street. The rain date is Sunday. Schedule and locations: earthcelebrations.com. (212) 777-7969.20110519
Fine Art & Designer Crafts on Bleecker (Sunday) From 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., on Bleecker Street, between Bank and Christopher Streets, West Village. Proceeds will benefit the Greenwich Village Youth Council.20110519
HBO Bryant Park Chess Challenge (Tuesday) Chess players who want to test their skills against the very best -- and maybe earn some money at the same time -- will have the chance at this chessfest from 4 to 6 p.m. Chess masters of all levels and ages will be on hand at this event in celebration of the documentary ''Bobby Fischer Against the World,'' to be shown on June 6 on HBO. Players can register in advance by calling the Marshall Chess Club, one of the event sponsors, (212) 477-3716 or on Tuesday in the park, starting at 4 p.m. Chess sets will be provided. Bryant Park, Avenue of the Americas, at 40th Street ; free. 20110519
Japan Day (Sunday) This year's outdoor celebration of Japanese culture will be devoted to earthquake and tsunami relief efforts. Donations will be collected throughout the day which will also feature entertainment, crafts workshops and martial arts demonstrations; 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., rain or shine. Central Park, Rumsey Playfield and Naumburg Bandshell, reachable from Fifth Avenue and 69th Street , japandaynyc.org; Free.20110519
Lower Third Avenue Summer Festival (Saturday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., between Sixth and 14th Streets, Manhattan.20110519
Maifest on the Hudson (Saturday) A German-style celebration of spring will include events on land and water from noon to 4:30 p.m., rain or shine. Sponsored by World Yacht and the German-American Steuben Parade, the day will feature entertainment, food and the crowning of Miss German America -- with spectator participation -- at Pier 81, as well as a one-hour cruise on the Hudson River at 2:30 p.m. West 41st Street and the Hudson River , (212) 630-8100, maifest.eventbrite.com; $20 for land activities, $15 in advance (free for children 12 and younger). Cruise tickets, $20, $5 for children 12 and younger.20110519
Murray Hill Neighborhood Association Street Fair (Sunday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Park Avenue, between 34th and 40th Streets.20110519
New York Underground Comedy Festival (Saturday) Comedians taking part in the show, which begins at 8 p.m., are Leighann Lord, Jim Mendrinos, Ellen Karis, Liz Miele, Jenn Palumbo and Mike Siscoe. TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street , (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org; $15.20110519
92nd Street Y (Saturday) Gotta dance but don't know where or how? The Go Go 92 Dance Party will offer instruction in the basics at 7 p.m., to be followed up from 8 to midnight with a DJ dance party featuring motown, disco, soul, rhythm and blues, pop and rock n' rock music. There will also be a cash bar and food. 1395 Lexington Avenue , (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $13 in advance, $15 at the door.20110519
SEVENTH REGIMENT ARMORY 142120 SEVENTH REGIMENT ARMORY (Tuesday through Sunday) For those who like to hear as well as see their art, ''The Transfinite,'' a new large-scale installation by Ryoji Ikeda, incorporates sound with digital images in a 55,000-square-foot hall. The installation will be up through June 11 and can be seen (and heard) Tuesday through Sunday, noon to 7 p.m. (until 9 on Thursday) and on Memorial Day from 2 to 7 p.m. 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street , (212) 933-5812, armoryonpark.org; $12, $10 for students and 65+, free for children 10 and younger and members.20110519
Taste of Tribeca (Saturday) The annual fundraiser for education, with samplings of dishes from neighborhood restaurants, as well as entertainment and childrens' activities, on Duane Street, between Greenwich and Hudson Streets, 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m tasteoftribeca.org; $40 in advance, $45 on Saturday. Proceeds benefit programs at Public Schools 150 and 234.20110519
Times Square street Fair (Sunday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Broadway, between 47th and 57th Streets, Manhattan.20110519
Tudor City Greens Springtime Serenade (Wednesday) The concert, the first in a series of free outdoor performances, will feature Broadway show tunes and jazz pieces by a group of singers and musicians that include D.C Anderson, Marianne Challis, the Rev. John Sheehan, the Howard Sisters, Sean Harness and Terese Genecco; at 6:30 p.m. The rain date is Thursday. South Park, First and Second Avenues, between East 41st and East 42nd Street, Manhattan , tudorcitygreens.org.20110519
Union Settlement Association's Ethnic Festival (Saturday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on 104th Street, between Second and Third Avenues, East Harlem. The annual event, which focuses on the cultural life of the neighborhood, will feature performances, crafts and food.20110519
Ye Olde Village Fair (Saturday) From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Bedford, Barrow and Commerce Streets, between Seventh Avenue South and Hudson Street, West Village.20110519
Spoken Word
'Civil Rights Remembered' (Sunday) Fifty years ago, civil rights activists defied state segregation laws by traveling on integrated buses, called Freedom Rides, throughout the South. To commemorate the anniversary of those rides and the civil rights movement they helped to propel, a discussion with three individuals active in civil rights issues will take place at 7:30 p.m. The speakers include Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts; Clarence Jones, a confidante of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and author of ''Behind the Dream: The Making of the Speech That Transformed a Nation'' (Palgrave Macmillan); and Judge Gordon Martin, Jr., a retired judge and author of ''Count Them One by One: Black Mississippians Fighting for the Right to Vote'' (University Press of Mississippi), that tells of his role in a 1961 Justice Department case that won black residents of a Mississippi county the right to vote. 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue , (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $29.20110519
92Y Tribeca (Friday) A discussion on the city's public gardens, from those well-known to the most obscure, with Nancy Berner and Susan Lowry, authors of ''Garden Guide: New York City'' (W.W. Norton); at noon. 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street , (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org; $16.20110519
Cooper Union (Wednesday) The journalist Chris Hedges will talk about his book ''Death of the Liberal Class'' (Nation); at 6:30 p.m. Cooper Union, Rose Auditorium, 41 Cooper Square, at 7 East Seventh Street and Third Avenue, East Village , (212) 353-4195, cooper.edu; Free.20110519
Museum at Eldridge Street (Sunday) Jonathan Papernick will celebrate the re-release of his book ''The Ascent of Eli Israel and Other Stories'' (Skyhorse Publishing) with a reading at 5 p.m.; also participating will be the authors Dara Horn and Matthew Lippman. 12 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-0888, eldridgestreet.org; Free.20110519
New York Public Library (Sunday) Writers and others, including Stuart Candy, who writes the sceptical futuryst blog, will discuss the world we may be seeing in 2021, at 3:30 p.m. Topics include the library of the future, as well as the role of science in our daily lives. Celeste Bartos Forum,, Fifth Avenue, at 42nd Street , (888) 718-4253, nypl.org; Free, but reservations are advised.20110519
Walking Tours
Ghosts of New York (Saturday) Ghost hunters can pick their prey from three walks this Saturday: at 3:30 p.m., ''Jewish Ghosts and Other Spirits of the Lower East Side'' will meet at the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street, Lower East Side; at 7:30 p.m. ''Peter Stuyvesant and his Ghostly Friends of the East Village,'' steps off from the entrance to St. Marks in the Bowery Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village; and at 9:30 p.m., ''Edgar Allan Poe and His Ghostly Neighbors of Greenwich Village'' will leave from the Fire Patrol Station No. 2, 84 West Third Street, one block south of Washington Square Park between Thompson and Sullivan Streets, Greenwich Village. (888) 377-4455, ghostsofny.com; Each, $20 by credit card online, $25 in cash.20110519
Municipal Art Society Tours (Saturday) The Middle Eastern roots of two Brooklyn neighborhoods -- Brooklyn Heights and Cobble Hill -- will be explored on a tour meeting in Brooklyn at 11 a.m. on the northwest corner of Remsen and Court Streets. (212) 935-2075. mas.org; $15, $10 for members.20110519
Recreation
Fight for Air Walk (Saturday) A five-kilometer walk beginning at Castle Clinton in Battery Park, at 10 a.m.; registration begins at 8:30 a.m. Sponsored by the American Lung Association. (212) 889-3370, Ext. 13, alany.org/events; Registration fee, $10; free for children 16 and younger.20110519
ANNE MANCUSO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EARTH CELEBRATIONS: HUDSON RIVER PAGEANT: (Saturday) Fish will take to land on Saturday, along with crabs, sea horses and other species that inhabit the Hudson River -- for an annual pageant to call attention to climate change and river restoration projects now under way in Lower Manhattan. Beginning at 1 p.m. near River Terrace and Vesey Street in Battery Park City, a procession of large puppets and marchers dressed for an aquatic-theme costume party will head north along the waterfront, stopping for site-specific events and performances like an oyster-planting ceremony at 3 p.m. at Christopher Street and a boat dance at 4 p.m. at Horatio Street, where it will end around 5 p.m. (Above, a fish puppet will again appear in this year's pageant. ) It took nine months and the collaboration of many groups to pull together this year's event, said Felicia Young, its director, who also ran two earlier river walks and similar processions to save community gardens in the East Village. Programs will be handed out along the route, and a schedule of events can be found on the Web site earthcelebrations.com. The rain date is Sunday. It's all free, and you don't even have to know how to swim. (Anne Mancuso) (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUES TORCHON, JR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); DANCE (86%); MUSIC (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HORTICULTURE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (55%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



629 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 19B

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Pressure to Improve Water Quality in Chicago River

BYLINE: By KARI LYDERSEN. 
klydersen@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
In recent days, the federal government and environmental groups have increased the pressure on Chicago's wastewater treatment agency to stop discharging untreated sewage into the Chicago River during storms and to disinfect the treated sewage that makes up 70 percent of the river's flow.
But the agency, the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago, insists that it does not need to disinfect wastewater, and contends that the enormous Deep Tunnel project scheduled for completion in two decades will solve most of the city's flooding and sewage overflow problems. 
On Tuesday, the conservation group American Rivers named the Chicago River one of the ''most endangered rivers'' in the country, along with rivers at risk from the extraction of coal, natural gas and uranium. On May 11, the federal Environmental Protection Agency ordered state regulators to impose stricter water quality standards on the river or else the agency would step in and do it. And on May 3, environmental groups filed a lawsuit charging that the wastewater agency regularly violates the federal Clean Water Act.
Critics said the agency still considers the river to be an industrial waterway and sewage conduit rather than a venue for strolling, rowing, fishing and even swimming. The flow of the Chicago River was reversed a century ago to carry the city's sewage away from Lake Michigan, and now the agency is banking on another engineering feat-- the vast system of underground tunnels and huge reservoirs known as the Deep Tunnel -- to hold sewage-laden water when sewers become overwhelmed.
Patricia Young, a district spokeswoman, said the Deep Tunnel remains the district's long-term solution for flood control, and was approved as such by state regulators in 1995. The Deep Tunnel has captured more than a trillion gallons of sewage-laden water since being partially opened in 1985, she said, and the district has not violated the Clean Water Act with sewage releases.
''During the past 122 years we have evolved into an international leader known for designing and implementing innovative engineering projects that improve the quality of our waterways,'' Ms. Young said.
Water reclamation district officials have said disinfecting wastewater would be costly -- $500 million up front and $23 million a year afterward -- and would not have public health benefits. A report by the district said disinfection does not kill all pathogens and cited two studies showing no ill health effects linked to using the river.
The Department of Justice and the E.P.A. are negotiating a consent decree with the district. According to a draft summary, it would require the district to finish the Deep Tunnel's last stage by its stated goal of 2029 and also hit earlier milestones.
But completion of the Deep Tunnel project depends on using huge quarries that would serve as reservoirs for stormwater overflows, and mining companies are still extracting rock to create them. The draft consent decree would allow deadlines to be renegotiated if mining proceeds more slowly than expected, which has occurred since the economic crisis has decreased demand for rock from the quarries.
Another issue is that the Deep Tunnel will not prevent all untreated sewage releases into the river and Lake Michigan, since overflows often happen because of bottlenecks in the network of smaller pipes that lead to the Deep Tunnel.
''You can have infinite storage capacity, but unless you can move enough water quickly enough to the storage area, you're still going to have problems,'' said Joel Brammeier, president of the Alliance for the Great Lakes.
The E.P.A. and planning and environmental groups say cities should reduce the amount of rainwater flowing into sewer pipes through a range of so-called green infrastructure projects, including permeable pavement that lets water trickle through; sunken medians lined with gravel or plants; green roofs and retention ponds.
The draft consent decree requires the water reclamation district to spend $325,000 on green infrastructure, which critics say is far too little. The federal government has ordered other cities to spend millions on green drainage methods -- $42 million in Cleveland alone.
Federal officials and Ms. Young said they could not comment on the consent decree because of ongoing negotiations.
Ann Alexander, a senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the district is too fixed on traditional solutions. ''They don't believe green infrastructure can really solve problems, they think of it as something dreamed up by hippies,'' she said.
Ms. Young said the agency has a number of green infrastructure projects under way, including one to promote the use of rain barrels.
Other cities like Chicago, with aging sewer systems, release untreated sewage into lakes and rivers during storms. But Chicago is the only one of the nation's largest cities that does not constantly disinfect its treated sewage to kill bacteria and viruses.
Howard Learner, executive director of the Environmental Law and Policy Center, said the effect of public pressure, the state regulatory process and the E.P.A.'s intervention ''has been to tighten the noose on the water reclamation district to finally move into the 20th century and clean up its wastewater.''
''The Chicago River should be a resource people are proud of,'' he said. ''Not a waterway filled with poop.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Swimmers in Lake Michigan in Evanston last Friday. During storms untreated sewage flows into the lake and Chicago River, which one group calls one of the country's ''most endangered rivers.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER QUALITY (94%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (93%); RIVERS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); LAKES (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); FLOOD CONTROL (76%); MINES & MINING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (71%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); LITIGATION (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (54%); SUITS & CLAIMS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



630 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 548 words

PERSON: Don Barden 

HEADLINE: Don Barden, 67, a Success In Cable TV and Casinos

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Don H. Barden, who rose from poverty to build one of the nation's largest black-owned businesses through casinos and cable television, died on Thursday in Detroit. He was 67.
The cause was lung cancer, his lawyer, Henry Baskin, said.
Mr. Barden's business empire started with a record store in Lorain, Ohio, that he opened at 21 with $500 in savings. Last year, the magazine Black Enterprise ranked Barden Companies as the 10th-highest-grossing black-owned company, with $405 million in revenue. Mr. Barden was the founder of Barden Cablevision, which built the cable television system serving Detroit and several suburbs. Comcast bought the system for more than $100 million in 1994, and Mr. Barden used the proceeds to open the Majestic Star, a riverboat casino in Gary, Ind. 
In 2001, Mr. Barden became the first black owner of a Las Vegas casino with his purchase of Fitzgeralds.
But he remained bitter about being denied the opportunity to open a casino in Detroit. Several years after the city began to allow casinos, he tried to get one of the licenses, proposing a $1 billion theme park and resort in partnership with Michael Jackson.
In recent years, he faced setbacks in his businesses and in his personal life. His gambling company, Majestic Star Casino, which operates casinos in Indiana, Colorado, Mississippi and Nevada, filed for bankruptcy protection in 2009. Earlier this year he and his third wife, Bella Marshall, separated after 23 years of marriage. She said he was no longer competent to handle his investments, an assertion he denied.
Mr. Barden was widely known for his charitable work. He organized a series of regional economic peace conferences to address Detroit's crime problem, national reputation and need for economic development.
''He faced a lot of long odds,'' said the Wayne County executive, Robert A. Ficano, who often consulted Mr. Barden for advice. ''He knew how to run a business and have a heart for the community. He remembered where his roots were and never gave up wanting to improve this area.''
Donald Hamilton Barden was born on Dec. 20, 1943, in Inkster, Mich., a mostly black suburb of Detroit. The ninth of 13 children, he grew up sharing a bed with three brothers and left for college in the hope of becoming a business owner rather than an autoworker like his parents and an older brother.
''I figured I'd give myself 10 years trying to be an entrepreneur,'' he said in a 2007 profile in The New York Times. ''If I didn't see the light at the end of the tunnel, I could always go at 30 to 32 and get a job in the factory.'' He dropped out of Central State University in Ohio because he lacked the money to continue and in 1965 opened Donnie's Records, which he promoted through appearances by the Jackson Five and James Brown. During his 20 years in Lorain, west of Cleveland, Mr. Barden became the first black member of its City Council, founded a newspaper, The Lorain County Times, worked as a news anchor and hosted a weekly television talk show.
Mr. Barden began developing real estate in Ohio before turning his focus to cable television in the 1980s, when he returned to Detroit and won the contract to install a system throughout the city.
Besides his wife, Mr. Barden is survived by a son, Don Jr., and a daughter, Alana M. Barden.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Don Barden proposed a Detroit casino with Michael Jackson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CASINOS (92%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); GAMING (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LAWYERS (70%); CHILDREN (69%); MARRIAGE (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (64%); CANCER (57%); LUNG CANCER (57%); PEACE PROCESS (51%)

COMPANY: BARDEN COS INC (72%); MAJESTIC STAR CASINO LLC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (56%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); GARY, IN, USA (76%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (91%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



631 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America to Sell BlackRock Stake

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
8:39 p.m. Updated
Bank of America is getting out of its investment in BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager.
On Thursday, the company agreed to sell its remaining 7 percent stake in BlackRock for $2.55 billion, or $187.65 a share - a roughly 3.6 percent discount to the average closing price over the last 15 days. Thomas Montag, president of Bank of America's global banking and markets group, will continue to serve on BlackRock's board. 
''There is a long history of collaboration between Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and BlackRock that focuses on providing exceptional investment solutions for our respective clients,'' Brian T. Moynihan, president and chief executive of Bank of America, said in a statement. ''Our decision to monetize our stake in BlackRock will have no effect on our commitment to continuing this very successful partnership.''
Bank of America's decision makes strategic sense. Looking to streamline operations and raise capital in recent years, the bank had previously concluded that BlackRock was not a core asset. Investors had long felt that Bank of America did not have the scale to be a force in the asset management business and could put its cash to better use elsewhere.
The alliance was formed in 2006, when Merrill Lynch reached a deal to sell its asset management division to BlackRock in exchange for a 49.8 percent stake. The discussions between Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of BlackRock, and E. Stanley O'Neal, Merrill Lynch's chief executive, began over a breakfast at 3 Guys Restaurant, a diner on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Bank of America acquired Merrill Lynch during the financial crisis in 2008.
BlackRock said it intended to finance the deal using available cash and a total of $2 billion of commercial paper, medium-term and long-term debt. Shares of BlackRock closed on Thursday at $198.10.
''This stock repurchase and our recent dividend increase evidence our continued commitment to enhancing shareholder value through effective use of our significant free cash flow, while maintaining our strong liquidity and capital position,'' Mr. Fink said in a statement.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CASH FLOW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (67%); RESTAURANTS (64%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (94%); BLACKROCK INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

TICKER: BLK (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (58%); LAURENCE D FINK (58%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



632 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: China Admits 'Urgent Problems' With Massive Dam on Yangtze

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The Three Gorges Dam, the world's largest hydroelectric project and a symbol of China's confidence in risky technological solutions, is troubled by urgent pollution and geologic problems, a high-level government body acknowledged Thursday.
The statement came as technicians were certifying the very last of the dam's array of generators as suitable for hydroelectric generation, the final step in a contentious 19-year effort to complete the project in defiance of domestic and international concerns over its safety as well as threats to the environment, displaced people, historical areas and natural beauty. 
According to official figures, the venture cost China about $23 billion, but outside experts estimate it may have cost double that amount. The dam has been plagued by reports of floating archipelagoes of garbage, carpets of algae and landslides on the banks along the vast expanse of still water since the 600-foot-tall dam on the Yangtze River was completed in 2006. Critics also have complained that the government has fallen far short of its goals in helping to resettle the 1.4 million people displaced by the rising waters behind the dam.
China's State Council, a coordinating body often likened to the United States president's cabinet, said in a vague statement that the project suffered from a wide range of serious problems. ''Although the Three Gorges project provides huge comprehensive benefits, urgent problems must be resolved regarding the smooth relocation of residents, ecological protection and geological disaster prevention,'' the statement said.
The huge dam is meeting the government's goal of producing pollution-free electric power, the government said, generating 84 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity last year. But critics say the sheer weight of water backed up in the 410-mile-long reservoir behind the dam has increased the danger of earthquakes and landslides. The government has acknowledged that risk, but denied that the project played any role in China's powerful May 2008 quake in Sichuan Province, in which at least 87,000 people died.
Environmentalists say the lake has become a repository for the waste dumped by cities and industries.
Even the dam's ability to regulate the notoriously changeable flow of the 3,900-mile-long Yangtze, one of China's two major rivers, has been called into question. Faced with a historic drought this spring, cities downstream of the dam have been unable to accommodate oceangoing vessels that usually visit their ports, and about 400,000 residents of Hubei Province lost access to drinking water this month.
Although no link has been proved, critics say the dam has changed regional water tables, contributing to the shortage.
The government statement on the dam was released after a meeting led by Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, seen by many outsiders as more responsive to average citizens' complaints than many others in the nation's leadership. The statement said that some problems were anticipated during the dam's construction, but that others ''arose because of new demands posed by economic and social development.''
China's rulers may be most concerned by the impact of the dam on the displaced masses, many of whom appear to have failed to rebuild their lives after being evicted from the land covered by the reservoir. By 2020, the statement promised, displaced residents would enjoy living standards equal to those who had not been displaced.
The Three Gorges project has been dogged by skeptics, even within China's bureaucracy, since it was approved in 1992. Environmentalists said it would destroy a stunning landscape of limestone cliffs regarded as one of the world's most scenic sites, and skeptics warned that the new lake would lead to geologic and pollution problems.
Orville Schell, an environmental expert who leads the Asia Society's Center on United States-China Relations, said he hoped that the government's statement signaled a commitment to address the dam's problems.
''There's a kind of a balance sheet of benefits and liabilities that have come out of this project,'' Mr. Schell said. ''My sense is that the Chinese government is getting better and better at collecting information about things like this.'' He added, ''They know if they don't fix these problems there will be dire consequences.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Three Gorges Dam faces problems involving pollution, geological disaster prevention and the relocation of more than a million displaced people. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); LAKES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (75%); DISASTER PLANNING (73%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); DROUGHT (68%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (67%); WATER QUALITY (60%); MARINE VESSELS (60%); US PRESIDENTS (51%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); HUBEI, CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); YANGTZE RIVER (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



633 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 2478 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.
- Ernestine Anderson with Houston Person (Tuesday through Thursday) Ms. Anderson, a soulful and experienced singer, is at her best weighing the ups and downs of love. She should have no problem covering that terrain with help from a frequent partner, the tenor saxophonist Houston Person, and a rhythm section consisting of the pianist Lafayette Harris Jr., the bassist Lonnie Plaxico and the drummer Willie Jones III. (Through May 29) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 and $35 cover, $15 for students at select sets, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Nate Chinen)20110519 
Darcy James Argue's Secret Society / Ben Allison Band (Thursday) Mr. Argue, a staunchly contemporary big band composer, leads his flagship with authority, infusing a modern-jazz sound with choice aspects of classical music and indie-rock. He and his crew go on at 9:30 p.m.; at 8 the bassist Ben Allison presents his working band, which has a new album of reimagined rock and pop covers, ''Action-Refraction'' (Palmetto). Littlefield, 622 Degraw Street, between Third and Fourth Avenues, Gowanus, Brooklyn , littlefieldnyc.com; $16. (Chinen)20110519
- Kenny Barron Quartet (Tuesday through Thursday) Kenny Barron is the leading practitioner of an elegant, economical and sure-footed piano style that thrives in any mainstream setting. He has a solid rhythm team here -- the bassist Kiyoshi Kitagawa and the drummer Johnathan Blake -- along with a responsive tenor saxophonist, Dayna Stephens. (Through May 28) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 and $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20110519
Tim Berne, Matt Mitchell, Ches Smith (Tuesday) Mr. Berne, the aggressively momentum-driven alto saxophonist and composer, introduces some new pieces for a trio with Mr. Mitchell on piano and Mr. Smith on drums. They appear at 10:30 p.m. as part of the Konceptions series in Park Slope, following what looks like a free-for-all with Mr. Smith, the pianist Gordon Beeferman and the saxophonists Ken Thomson, Pete Robbins and Matt Bauder, among others (at 9). Korzo, 667 Fifth Avenue, at 20th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn , (718) 285-9425, myspace.com/konceptions; $5 suggested donation, with a two-drink minimum or $7 food purchase. (Chinen)20110519
Jane Ira Bloom Quartet (Sunday) Ms. Bloom, a soprano saxophonist with an exploratory ken, has a good new album, ''Wingwalker'' (Outline), featuring a version of the group found here: Dawn Clement on piano and Bobby Previte on drums, with Dean Johnson (filling in for Mark Helias) on bass. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village , (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20110519
Ryan Blotnik's Day of Rapture / Mike Baggetta Quartet (Saturday) In case you haven't heard, this Saturday has been hailed as Judgment Day by some religious groups -- a bit of doomsday forecasting that Mr. Blotnik, a guitarist, decided to exploit. Provided no one has been swept up into the afterlife, he'll unveil new music for a group he calls Day of Rapture, featuring collaborators like the saxophonist Michael Blake. That's at 10:30 p.m.; at 9, another young guitarist, Mike Baggetta, leads his working quartet in an exploration of music from a forthcoming album. Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village , (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $15 cover, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)20110519
Stanley Clarke (Tuesday through Thursday) On electric or acoustic bass, Mr. Clarke is a fleet-fingered marvel with a particular gift for funk. He can be heard on a new double album, ''Forever'' (Concord), with the pianist Chick Corea and the drummer Lenny White, his former (and occasionally recurrent) band mates in the 1970s jazz-rock flagship Return to Forever. Here, for an early 60th-birthday celebration, Mr. Clarke leads his own working band. (through May 29) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $45 at tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20110519
Jeff Davis Band (Thursday) ''We Sleep Outside'' (Loyal Label) is the restlessly episodic debut by Jeff Davis, a drummer of broad experience in left-of-center jazz circles. Playing music from the album, Mr. Davis enlists the trumpeter Kirk Knuffke, the saxophonist Tony Malaby, the guitarist Jonathan Goldberger and the bassist Matt Pavolka. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village , (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a $10 minimum (Chinen)20110519
Miles Davis From Birth of the Cool to Bitches Brew (Friday through Sunday) With an explicit promise to cover 20 prime years of the Miles Davis canon, this tribute has its work cut out for it. A decent lineup has been assembled for the task, with Jeremy Pelt and Eddie Henderson on trumpets, Eric Alexander on tenor saxophone, George Cables on piano, Lonnie Plaxico on bass and Victor Lewis on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street , (212) 582-2121, theiridium.com; $35 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20110519
Alan Ferber Big Band (Saturday) The trombonist Alan Ferber has a core familiarity with large-ensemble work -- he typically leads a nonet, often augmented by a string section -- so he should be on solid footing with this big band, stocked with versatile peers. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, $10 for members. (Chinen)20110519
Garage A Trois (Saturday) This ruggedly groove-oriented collective -- Skerik on saxophones, Mike Dillon on vibes, Marco Benevento on keyboards and Stanton Moore on drums -- has a new album, ''Always Be Happy, But Stay Evil,'' on the Brooklyn indie label Royal Potato Family. They'll be playing music from that release, though by no means exclusively. At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Bowl, 61 Wythe Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn , (718) 963-3369, brooklynbowl.com; $12 (Chinen)20110519
Glass Bead Games: The Music of Clifford Jordan (Friday through Sunday) Clifford Jordan was a tenor saxophonist, originally from Chicago but later based in New York, who made his mark in the realm of hard- and postbop. This tribute, named after an album of his from the early 1970s, features the pianist Eric Reed, the saxophonist Seamus Blake, the bassist Dezron Douglas and the drummer Billy Drummond. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 or $35 cover (students $15 for select sets), with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20110519
Roy Hargrove Quintet (Tuesday through Thursday) Roy Hargrove, an often dazzling trumpeter with a knack for pithy soul, leads a sharp-featured yet flexible postbop band with the saxophonist Justin Robinson, the pianist Sullivan Fortner, the bassist Ameen Saleem and the drummer Montez Coleman. (Through June 5.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20110519
Joel Harrison String Choir (Sunday) The prolific guitarist and composer Joel Harrison uses this ensemble to explore the compositions of the drummer Paul Motian, which can convey shadowy depths even as they echo the simplicity of folk songs. The group -- which consists of an improvising string quartet and another accomplished guitarist, Liberty Ellman -- recently released a gorgeous album on the Sunnyside label. At 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village , thestonenyc.com; $10. (Chinen)20110519
- Roy Haynes Fountain of Youth Band (Friday through Sunday) The redoubtable drummer Roy Haynes recently turned 86, though you'd never guess it by the freshness and ferocity of his playing. His exemplary working quartet features musicians many years his junior: the alto saxophonist Jaleel Shaw, the pianist Martin Bejerano and the bassist David Wong. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $35. (Chinen)20110519
- Lost Jazz Shrines: Multimonk (Friday) This concert, the first of three consecutive Friday installments, pays homage to the stretch of 52nd Street that had its jazz heyday around midcentury. At 7 p.m. the jazz historian Dan Morgenstern offers his recollection of the Street; at 8:30 the drummer Matt Wilson, the saxophonist Scott Robinson, the pianist Frank Kimbrough and the bassist Ray Drummond take the stage with a period-appropriate tribute to Thelonious Monk. TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street , (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org; $25, students $15. (Chinen)20110519
Pamela Luss With Houston Person (Monday) The title notwithstanding, ''Sweet and Saxy'' (Savant/HighNote) is a solid recent entry in the jazz-vocal catalog and an accurate showcase for both Ms. Luss, a coyly sentimental singer, and Mr. Person, an ever-soulful tenor saxophonist. At 7 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $25 cover, with a $10 minimum (Chinen)20110519
- Rebecca Martin (Thursday) On her gorgeously intimate recent album, ''When I Was Long Ago'' (Sunnyside), Ms. Martin sings a batch of jazz standards as if sifting through treasured mementos. Revisiting the album's repertory here, she teams up again with her husband, the bassist Larry Grenadier; filling in for Bill McHenry on tenor saxophone is the estimable Chris Cheek. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, $10 for members. (Chinen)20110519
Bill Mays-Warren Vache Duo (Friday and Saturday) Mr. Mays, a sophisticated pianist, teams up here with Mr. Vache, a soulful cornetist. Both musicians are trustworthy stewards of jazz traditions, and they should be interactive partners. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street , (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; $25 cover, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)20110519
- Paul Motian Quartet (Friday through Sunday) Paul Motian, a drummer of stubborn mystery, might seem an unlikely fit for a tribute to the fastidious Modern Jazz Quartet. But that's his objective here, as he leads a group full of intriguing sidemen: the vibraphonist Steve Nelson, the pianist Craig Taborn and the bassist Thomas Morgan. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20110519
Matana Roberts (Friday) Ms. Roberts, an alto saxophonist, has lately divided her attentions between multimedia performance pieces (as on one new album, ''Coin Coin,'' released on Constellation) and straightforward but adventurous small-group work (as on the other one, ''Live in London,'' released on Central Control). Here she performs alone, unaccompanied, in a demanding format she has tackled before. At 8 p.m., Salt Space, 1158 Broadway at 27th Street, Fifth Floor , destination-out.com; $10. (Chinen)20110519
- Jerome Sabbagh Trio (Wednesday) The French-born, New York-based tenor and soprano saxophonist Jerome Sabbagh reaches beyond his comfort zone on ''I Will Follow You'' (Bee Jazz), a beautifully in-the-moment album featuring the guitarist Ben Monder and the Swiss drummer Daniel Humair. Here Mr. Sabbagh and Mr. Monder revisit the premise with Paul Motian, an American drummer of the same generation and temperament as Mr. Humair, but a substantially higher profile. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village , (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $15 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20110519
- Antonio Sanchez and Migration (Friday) Mr. Sanchez is one of the standout jazz drummers on the contemporary scene, a polyrhythmic ace attuned to the subtlest dynamic fluctuations. Migration, named after his 2007 studio debut on Cam Jazz, is a sturdy group full of companionable partners: the saxophonists David Binney and Donny McCaslin, the pianist Aaron Goldberg and the bassist Scott Colley. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20; $10 for members. (Chinen)20110519
Emilio Solla Y La Inestable de Brooklyn (Wednesday) The pianist Emilio Solla fashions a jazz translation of the cafe music of his native Argentina, drawing here from an older album of his, ''Suite Piazzollana'' (Fresh Sound), featuring the music of Astor Piazzolla. His lineup will include the accordion player Victor Prieto, the saxophonist John Ellis and the violinist Meg Okura. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $20. (Chinen)20110519
Helen Sung Trio (Friday) Helen Sung, a smart young pianist with a crisp, precise style, draws from her new album, ''(re)Conception'' (Steeplechase), a program of standards neatly interpreted by her trio. She'll be at the Bar on Fifth, a few blocks from the Empire State Building. From 8 to 11 p.m., Bar on Fifth at the Setai Hotel, 400 Fifth Avenue , (212) 695-4005, jazzbaronfifth.com; No cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20110519
Colin Vallon Trio (Friday) The Swiss pianist Colin Vallon has a gleaming new ECM debut, ''Rruga,'' that reflects his interest in folklike melody and rippling harmonic suspension. His trio, with Patrice Moret on bass and Samuel Rohrer on drums, is now on its first tour in the United States, and this should be a good room for them. At 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea , (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $20; $16.20 for members. (Chinen)20110519
David Weiss and Point of Departure (Tuesday) Mr. Weiss, a resourceful trumpeter and arranger, devotes his Point of Departure band to the style and repertory of 1960s postbop, with contemporary urgency. ''Snuck In,'' an album released on Sunnyside last year, features music by Herbie Hancock and Tony Williams, among others: good fodder for Mr. Weiss and his partners, including the guitarist Nir Felder and the tenor saxophonist J.D. Allen. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $20. (Chinen)20110519

CORRECTION-DATE: May 21, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A jazz entry in the Listings pages in some editions on Friday about the bassist Stanley Clarke and his band, at the Blue Note, misstated Mr. Clarke's age. He is approaching his 60th birthday, not his 50th.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ROY HARGROVE QUINTET
(Tuesday through Thursday) Roy Hargrove, above, an often dazzling trumpeter with a knack for pithy soul, leads a sharp-featured yet flexible postbop band with the saxophonist Justin Robinson, the pianist Sullivan Fortner, the bassist Ameen Saleem and the drummer Montez Coleman. (Through June 5.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com
 cover, $25, with a one-drink minimum. (Nate Chinen) (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN BAIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); RECORD RELEASES (79%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (79%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%)

COMPANY: MYSPACE INC (60%); COCA-COLA CO (57%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (60%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (60%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



634 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Contrarian Investor Shuns Hot Idea for Bigger Picture

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
As investors clamor for shares of social media darlings, Peter Thiel is avoiding the frenzy.
''Is Twitter worth $7 billion?'' the venture capitalist said.
''The broader question is, Is it going to help people have a much higher quality of living? And I think on that score, its benefit is a lot less.''
Mr. Thiel - Facebook's first outside investor and a co-founder of PayPal - is not just knocking the competition. He has a visceral aversion to market exuberance. By the time an idea like social networking is widely accepted, Mr. Thiel, 43, thinks it is passe.
''He's always starting with the premise of, What does everyone else believe that's erroneous?'' said Keith Rabois, a friend of Mr. Thiel's and former PayPal executive. 
Mr. Thiel, an entrepreneur turned investor, is more than a simple iconoclast. He is also the founder of the hedge fund Clarium Capital Management and a full-time prognosticator who says he makes ''determinant views of the future.'' His macroperspective defines his investments in start-ups and securities.
He's focused on what he sees as a lack of innovation in the United States. Although the last 40 years have brought advancements in computers and the Web, Mr. Thiel is nostalgic for the 1960s, when people were still dreaming of putting a man on the moon. He describes the decade - and the 200 years that preceded it - as a ''golden era'' for technology.
''Innovation slowed down dramatically after the 1960s,'' Mr. Thiel said. ''We are not focused enough on getting back to a culture of innovation - people are just trying to figure out ways to coast.''
Mr. Thiel is shunning the most popular Internet start-ups because they are not ''taking civilization to the next level.'' Instead, he's placing bets in health care, biotechnology and artificial intelligence companies - areas most of his peers have shied away from. His venture capital firm, Founders Fund, has made investments in Halcyon Molecular, a DNA sequencing start-up; Practice Fusion, an electronic health record system; and SpaceX, a spaceship builder.
According to Mr. Thiel, not enough energy is spent tackling big, challenging problems, like space exploration. Instead, many people are chasing incremental progress and short-term gains.
Part of the problem, he says, is society's faith in higher education, which he has long called ''a great bubble.'' Colleges and universities, Mr. Thiel argues, are lulling the younger generation into a false sense of security and chaining them to hefty student loans, which pushes them into low-risk jobs.
''Universities are like the General Motors of the 1970s,'' said Mr. Thiel, a graduate of Stanford University and Stanford Law School. ''They're incredibly dominant, incredibly arrogant and impervious to change.''
His nonprofit organization, the Thiel Foundation, is vetting candidates under the age of 20 for 20 fellowships. Each recipient will be awarded a $100,000 grant to leave college and pursue entrepreneurial projects.
Although the initiative has caused controversy among staunch supporters of higher education, the program has attracted 400 applicants, many from top-tier schools. Mr. Thiel, who plans to announce the winners next week, says he's not advocating that everyone drop out. But he does want students to consider their options more carefully.
''I don't think there's anything controversial about an education bubble,'' he said. ''Price is up by a factor of 10; quality hasn't really changed. There's something really crazy going on here.''
What is intriguing about Mr. Thiel is that for all his titles - and there are many, including entrepreneur, movie producer, lawyer and derivatives trader - his approach is generally consistent. According to several friends and former employees, Mr. Thiel ponders major societal and economic issues and then identifies the contrarian strands. He also places a huge premium on intellectuals who, like him, think about the big picture. Mr. Rabois, who worked at Clarium in 2003, recalls a wave of new employees, ''brainiacs,'' who were hired at the hedge fund without specific roles.
''People would show up for work, and nobody had any idea what they were supposed to do,'' Mr. Rabois said. ''Peter is a people investor. His basic philosophy is that you wouldn't just sit there, you would create value.''
Despite his consistent strategy, results have been mixed. As a venture capitalist, he's realized outsize gains, but as a hedge fund manager, he's struggled to stay in the black.
His singular stake in Facebook, a $500,000 investment, is worth roughly $1.5 billion, based on conservative estimates. Mr. Thiel, an investor in Zynga and LinkedIn, sold PayPal to eBay for $1.5 billion in 2002.
In stark contrast, Clarium, based in San Francisco, has posted three straight years of declines. The macrofund surged in the first half of 2008 to more than $7 billion in assets, according to several former employees who were not authorized to talk publicly. But it tumbled soon after. In late 2008, Mr. Thiel bought stock futures too soon amid the panic.
''When the financial markets were collapsing, Peter thought that since all the problems were now out, the authorities would throw everything they could against it,'' said Patrick Wolff, a former managing director of Clarium. ''He was right, but he made that bet at the wrong time.''
By the end of 2010, the fund had about $680 million, the bulk of it from his personal assets. Mr. Thiel declined to comment on Clarium's performance.
''When you make a venture capital investment, no one values it day to day,'' said Tammer Kamel, a hedge fund adviser whose clients include former Clarium investors. ''The liquid financial markets have little patience for contrarian investors.''
Mr. Thiel is still active at Clarium, but those close to the company say his daily involvement has diminished. He says he is logging more hours in the office, but admits to spending more time on his venture capital and philanthropic pursuits.
Today, the fund is operating under the assumption that the macropicture is in a ''holding pattern'' and it is primarily executing ''short-term tactical trading,'' he said. It also has a sizable stake in Palantir Technologies, a data analytics start-up co-founded by Mr. Thiel. Palantir recently raised $50 million from a group of investors at a multibillion-dollar valuation.
When asked which investor he most emulates, Mr. Thiel did not name any venture capitalists or hedge fund masters, like George Soros or Stanley Druckenmiller. After some thought, he named Howard Hughes, the aviator, movie producer and business mogul, who died a recluse.
''He was very underrated,'' Mr. Thiel said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Thiel, a venture capitalist, says not enough energy is spent tackling big problems. Instead, people chase incremental progress and short-term gains. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); STARTUPS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); SPACE EXPLORATION (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); DNA (66%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (61%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (50%); GENOMICS (50%)

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



635 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Ease Amid Weak Growth

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Weak data on home sales and factory activity on Thursday showed the economy stuck in a slow-growth gear. But a drop in claims for unemployment benefits offered hope the labor market's recovery was on track.
The reports suggested growth was being hampered by a combination of bad weather at home and supply disruptions caused by the March earthquake in Japan, and analysts said the economy should regain momentum by the second half of the year.
''What you are looking at is second-quarter growth which may be a little softer than what people are expecting, but that's going to be temporary,'' said Rudy Narvas, an economist at Societe Generale in New York. 
First-time claims for state unemployment benefits fell 29,000 to 409,000 last week, the Labor Department said.
While the initial claims decline was more than economists' expectations for a fall to 420,000, for a sixth straight week they remained above the 400,000 level that is normally associated with stable job growth.
The claims data covered the survey period for the government's closely watched employment report for May, which will be released early next month. Claims rose by 5,000 in the April and May survey periods, indicating a loss of momentum in the pace of labor market improvement.
''Based on this and other incoming data, we look for a gain of 190,000 in May nonfarm payrolls and a 210,000 increase in private payrolls,'' said Michael Gapen, a senior United States economist at Barclays Capital in New York.
The drop eased fears that a large increase the jobless rate last month reflected a fundamental deterioration in the jobs market, buttressing the view that the increase was because of auto plant shutdowns and other one-time factors.
In a separate report, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said its business activity index -- a gauge of factory activity in the mid-Atlantic region -- slumped to a seven-month low.
The flow of orders and shipments slowed significantly, while unfilled orders and inventories dropped. Employers, however, added workers.
Economists said this suggested that much of the slowdown in factory activity in the region last month reflected supply chain disruptions at motor vehicle assembly plants, which should prove to be temporary. A Fed report on Tuesday showed that motor vehicle output dropped 8.9 percent in April, causing manufacturing activity to contract for the first time in 10 months.
Estimates for second-quarter economic growth currently range from a 3 percent to 3.5 percent annual pace, but some analysts have started trimming forecasts as the impact of the supply chain disruptions becomes more evident.
The economy grew at a 1.8 percent rate in the first three months of this year, after growing at a 3.1 percent clip in the fourth quarter.
Although some of the factors hindering growth may prove temporary, housing will remain a headache.
Sales of previously owned homes fell 0.8 percent last month to an annual rate of 5.05 million units, the National Association of Realtors said. Housing is buckling under the weight of foreclosed properties, which are depressing prices.
''The economy is not going to grow at a 3 percent pace or more on a sustainable basis until we clear this backlog of foreclosed properties and housing begins to recover,'' said Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities.
The data suggested the Federal Reserve will be in no hurry to shift from its easy monetary policy stance.
Mortgage delinquencies 90 days past their due date in the first quarter were the lowest since the beginning of 2009, the Mortgage Bankers Association said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (64%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (56%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (56%); GLE (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



636 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Making Things In America

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Some years ago, one of my neighbors, an emigre Russian engineer, offered an observation about his adopted country. ''America seems very rich,'' he said, ''but I never see anyone actually making anything.''
That was a bit unfair, but not completely -- and as time went by it became increasingly accurate. By the middle years of the last decade, I used to joke that Americans made a living by selling each other houses, which they paid for with money borrowed from China. Manufacturing, once America's greatest strength, seemed to be in terminal decline. 
But that may be changing. Manufacturing is one of the bright spots of a generally disappointing recovery, and there are signs -- preliminary, but hopeful, nonetheless -- that a sustained comeback may be under way.
And there's something else you should know: If right-wing critics of efforts to rescue the economy had gotten their way, this comeback wouldn't be happening.
The story so far: In the 1990s, U.S. manufacturing employment was more or less steady. After 2000, however, it entered a steep decline. The 2001 recession hit industry hard, while the bubble-fueled expansion of the decade's middle years -- an expansion marked by a huge rise in the trade deficit -- left manufacturing behind. By December 2007, there were 3.5 million fewer U.S. manufacturing workers than there had been in 2000; millions more jobs disappeared in the slump that followed.
Only a handful of these lost jobs have come back, so far. But, as I said, there are indications of a turnaround.
Crucially, the manufacturing trade deficit seems to be coming down. At this point, it's only about half as large as a share of G.D.P. as it was at the peak of the housing bubble, and further improvements are in the pipeline. The Boston Consulting Group, which is now predicting a U.S. ''manufacturing renaissance,'' points to major U.S. firms like Caterpillar that once shifted production abroad but are now moving it back. At the same time, companies from other countries, especially European firms, are moving production to America.
And one potential disaster has been avoided: the U.S. auto industry, which many people were writing off just two years ago, has weathered the storm. In particular, General Motors has now had five consecutive profitable quarters.
America's industrial heartland is now leading the economic recovery. In August 2009, Michigan had an unemployment rate of 14.1 percent, the highest in the nation. Today, that rate is down to 10.3 percent, still above the national average, but nonetheless a huge improvement.
I don't want to suggest that everything is wonderful about U.S. manufacturing. So far, the job gains are modest, and many new manufacturing jobs don't offer good pay or benefits. The manufacturing revival isn't going to make health reform unnecessary or obviate the need for a strong social safety net.
Still, better to have those jobs than none at all. Which brings me to those right-wing critics.
First, what's driving the turnaround in our manufacturing trade? The main answer is that the U.S. dollar has fallen against other currencies, helping give U.S.-based manufacturing a cost advantage. A weaker dollar, it turns out, was just what U.S. industry needed.
Yet the Federal Reserve finds itself under intense pressure from the right to make the dollar stronger, not weaker. A few months ago, Paul Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, berated Ben Bernanke for failing to tighten monetary policy, declaring: ''There is nothing more insidious that a country can do to its citizens than debase its currency.'' If Mr. Bernanke had given in to that kind of pressure, manufacturing would have continued its relentless decline.
And then there's the matter of the auto industry, which probably would have imploded if President Obama hadn't stepped in to rescue General Motors and Chrysler. For those companies would almost surely have gone into liquidation, closing all their factories. And this liquidation would have undermined the rest of America's auto industry, as essential suppliers went under, too. Hundreds of thousands of jobs were at stake.
Yet Mr. Obama was fiercely denounced for taking action. One Republican congressman declared the auto rescue part of the administration's ''war on capitalism.'' Another insisted that when government gets involved in a company, ''the disaster that follows is predictable.'' Not so much, it turns out.
So while we still have a deeply troubled economy, one piece of good news is that Americans are, once again, starting to actually make things. And we're doing that thanks, in large part, to the fact that the Fed and the Obama administration ignored very bad advice from right-wingers -- ideologues who still, in the face of all the evidence, claim to know something about creating prosperity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (67%); HOUSING BUBBLE (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%)

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



637 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: City Unemployment Rate Falls to 8.6%, Lowest Level in Two Years

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
Even though New York City's stalled construction industry has not begun to hire back laid-off workers, the city's unemployment rate dipped again in April to its lowest level in more than two years.
The city's official unemployment rate was 8.6 percent last month, down from 8.7 percent in March, the State Labor Department reported Thursday. That drop kept the city's rate below the national rate of 9 percent and continued the slow but steady improvement that the local job market has shown since the beginning of last year, when the city's unemployment rate was at 10 percent.
Statewide, private-sector employment rose by 43,800 jobs in April, the largest one-month gain in more than 10 years. The state's unemployment rate fell to 7.9 percent, from 8 percent in March. The rates for the city and the state were the lowest since March 2009. 
The official unemployment rates do not account for people who are too discouraged about their prospects to look for a job, or are working part-time because they cannot find a full-time position. Still, the Labor Department said more than 750,000 residents of the state were unemployed in April.
The department does not provide an estimate of monthly employment changes in the city that is adjusted for seasonal fluctuations in hiring and can be compared with the statewide numbers. But a private economist, Barbara Byrne Denham, of Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services firm in Manhattan, calculated that the city added 7,600 private-sector jobs last month.
''The industries that are doing well in New York are generally doing well nationally,'' Ms. Denham said. A notable exception, she said, is manufacturing, which is ''thriving in the U.S. but not so in New York.''
Despite the gains, the city had 69,000 fewer jobs last month than it had in April 2008, before the recession took hold, Ms. Denham said. That amounts to a decline of less than 2 percent from the peak, compared with a nationwide loss of about 5 percent, she said.
Part of the decline in the city's unemployment rate in April came from a drop in the number of residents looking for jobs, said James P. Brown, principal economist for the State Labor Department. The city's labor force has been shrinking in recent months, probably because people have decided that a job search would be fruitless, Mr. Brown said.
Still, he said, the number of jobs in the city rose last month at more than three times the usual rate for April. That gain brought the total increase in private-sector jobs in the city over the last 12 months to 44,400, raising total private employment in the city to 3.18 million. But nearly half of that gain was offset by a drop in government jobs of 18,000.
The private-sector gain over the last year amounted to an increase of 1.4 percent, slightly below the nationwide rise of 1.7 percent. Mr. Brown said the city's job-growth rate was about normal for the last several years, except during the recent recession and the brief boom that preceded it.
''The general picture has been sort of settling in at about 1.5 percent over-the-year employment growth,'' Mr. Brown said. ''We've actually been pretty consistent. We rarely see 2 percent or more.''
He said banking, real estate and professional services led the way in hiring in April. The leisure and hospitality sector, which includes hotels, restaurants and museums, continued to add jobs at a healthy pace, he said. But construction did not bounce back as it usually does after the winter months.
''It's lower this year than last year, and that was lower than the year before,'' Mr. Brown said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



638 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: At CUNY, Concerns That Overhaul of the Curriculum May Erode Academic Gains

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
For as long as anyone can remember, students who have tried to transfer within the City University of New York system -- from, say, a community college to a four-year school -- have run into delays or denials in getting their course credits accepted. Many have wound up spending additional time and money to secure their degree, while others have simply given up.
Now the university has proposed a major overhaul that would guarantee the smooth transfer of credits by creating a common framework for general education courses -- a so-called core curriculum -- at all of its two- and four-year colleges. It would also reduce the number of core credits needed for graduation at virtually all of the four-year colleges.
But for many faculty members at CUNY, the plan collides with the university's defining effort during that same period: raising admission and academic standards at its 11 four-year senior colleges. 
Professors at those campuses, from the College of Staten Island to Lehman College in the Bronx, say the reduction in required core credits will erode the liberal arts foundation of the degrees the colleges award, and threaten the increased respect and enhanced student performance the university has worked so hard to win.
The proposed change has pitted many professors against several student organizations that have endorsed the plan, and set off a rare systemwide public relations war. Administrators have fanned out to half of the 18 undergraduate campuses to sell the plan, known as the ''Pathways Project.'' Professors have signed petitions and faculty senates have passed resolutions, in one instance circulating a list called ''Top Ten Reasons to be Concerned about the CUNY Pathways Project.''
The proposal comes as leaders at every level of government are calling for strategies to lift sagging college graduation rates. And it follows similar moves at the State University of New York and other public universities around the country over the past 10 years. The thorny issue will be taken up in June by the university's board of trustees, which is still reeling from a much-criticized move this month to withhold an honorary degree for the playwright Tony Kushner, a decision the board later reversed.
Many professors acknowledge that the snarls in transferring credits are a serious problem.
''But our position is that all of these real transfer issues are not to be solved by undermining the quality and breadth of general education,'' said Sandi Cooper, a professor of history at the College of Staten Island and chairwoman of the university's Faculty Senate. ''We have struggled to tighten up requirements and standards, and spent years revising general education. We are trying to defend the quality of the degree.''
The overhaul would set the number of required general education credits at 42. The requirement now varies from campus to campus, with some senior colleges exceeding 60 credits. Brooklyn College, for example, requires students to amass 48 credits of core coursework.
''I don't see a way that you could cut six credits out of our general education curriculum without making it a very different, and lesser, curriculum,'' said Matthew E. Moore, chairman of the college's philosophy department. Others have warned against a wholesale acceptance of transfer credits from CUNY's two-year institutions, saying the courses there may not match the rigor of those at senior colleges.
Alexandra W. Logue, the university's executive vice chancellor and provost, said limiting the core requirement to 42 credits would not diminish quality, but would give students flexibility -- a chance to specialize more, or explore elective courses.
''Forty-two credits is actually on the high side, nationally,'' she said. ''When you get up to this very high number, approaching 60 credits, there isn't room to change your major and still graduate on time, and it makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to double-major.''
Students say that making it easier to transfer credits and lowering core requirements would help them graduate on time. With many students juggling jobs and even young children, the added time and expense of making up for unaccepted credits can be a burden.
Cory Provost, a graduate student who is president of the university's Student Senate, said steep core requirements prevented students from pursuing more courses in their chosen fields. ''That's problematic, especially in this economy,'' he said.
The snags in transferring course credits have grown as CUNY's campuses have diverged. With colleges carving out academic specialties, exact course matches have become increasingly unlikely, making it difficult for the new institution to determine just how many credits to award.
The university's chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, has spoken out about the problem since 1999, and says it is the most common complaint he hears from students. ''Instead of chipping away at the problem,'' he said, ''I felt the best way to do this was to reform general education. We're out of step with respect to so many universities.''
Amid growing unease over low college graduation rates, federal education officials in March sent a ''College Completion Tool Kit'' to state leaders. One recommendation was called ''Making it Easier for Students to Transfer Among Colleges,'' which implored educators to develop general education curriculums accepted by all two- and four-year institutions.
At the University System of Georgia, a committee devised a common core curriculum for the university's three dozen colleges in the 1990s, also settling on 42 credits to fulfill the requirement. George W. Rainbolt, a professor of philosophy who headed the curriculum committee, said that transfers were now mostly seamless and that graduation rates had improved.
Most striking, Dr. Rainbolt said, is the fact that the changes have helped close a wide gap in the graduation rates of black and white students. A convoluted system, he said, is trickier for low-income students, who may not have friends and relatives to advise them on the best sequence of courses. ''I think the current lack of a unified system at CUNY really does have a differential impact on students from disadvantaged backgrounds,'' he said.
If the CUNY plan is passed, a universitywide task force composed predominantly of faculty members, along with administrators and students, will first outline broad learning objectives for different disciplines, like communications or social sciences. Each campus will then determine which courses would fulfill those requirements, with 30 credits allotted for general education at the community colleges and 12 more at the senior colleges.
Under the proposal, any general education course at a two-year college would automatically be accepted by any other college in the system. That would especially help transfer students, two-thirds of whom do not first complete their associate's degree.
''When a student transfers with an associate's degree, they're supposed to get credit for all general education courses,'' said Dr. Logue, the executive vice chancellor and provost. ''But if a student is one course short of the associate's degree, what happens is their portfolio is opened and everything is up for grabs. They may or may not get credit for anything in there.''
Christina Chaise, a junior at Hunter College who transferred from Borough of Manhattan Community College after completing her associate's degree, said she was in favor of making it easier to transfer credits. But she has qualms about reducing core requirements that she says have helped her.
''I became a well-rounded student,'' she said. ''It allowed me to dip my feet into a lot of different subjects that I would not have otherwise done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matthew E. Moore, tutoring a student at Brooklyn College, opposes the proposal to change credit requirements at CUNY schools. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MASHID MOHADJERIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Counting Courses: City University of New York campuses have traditionally required more core courses than similar colleges. (Source: City University of New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRICULA (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); HISTORY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); PETITIONS (64%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



639 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Lights on Earth Impede Arizona's Eyes on Space

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
MOUNT HOPKINS, Ariz. -- There is no Border Patrol in space. But the very earthly cat-and-mouse game between smugglers and America's border agents is affecting the exploration of space, lighting up the nighttime sky in southern Arizona and making astronomers strain even harder to figure out the mysteries of the universe.
Arizona is an astronomy haven with an array of prestigious observatories taking advantage of the state's dry weather, minimal cloud cover and dark skies. But the state's astronomers worry about a variety of threats -- border enforcement among them -- to the pristine conditions that have allowed them to discover new planets, gain important insights into how the universe functions and generate hundreds of millions of dollars annually in economic return. 
Drug smugglers and illegal immigrants making their way north are sometimes visible to astronomers at the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory here who take a break from gazing skyward to look around the rough, wooded terrain. But it is not the outlaws that affect their work as much as the authorities who are after them.
A Border Patrol helicopter shining a blinding beam on a group of suspects runs the risk of interfering with valuable machinery trained upward, like the four massive telescopes, known as Veritas or the Very Energetic Radiation Telescope Array System, that measure gamma rays. ''It's happened,'' said Dan Brocious, spokesman for the observatory, which is jointly run by the Smithsonian Institution and Harvard University and has operated atop this mountaintop since 1968.
The Border Patrol says that it tries to steer its helicopters clear of observatories, but that frequent staff turnover has occasionally resulted in missteps.
The checkpoints that the Border Patrol has set up around southern Arizona, complete with high-powered beams to light them up at night, have been another sore point, prompting meetings between area astronomers and agents and a pledge from the Border Patrol to reduce the wattage. The lights are among the brightest points now visible at night in the area, astronomers say.
But even car headlights can be a problem for sensitive stargazing, which is why signs along the winding road that leads to the observatory urge drivers to use only their parking lights after dark. The nearly 50 years since the Whipple Observatory was built here in the Coronado National Forest have brought retirement communities, shopping malls and assorted other developments to the area, all of which have boosted the light levels detected by astronomers scrutinizing the sky.
Wildfires are another concern in the remote areas where the observatories are located. In 2005, a fire that was caused by a lightning strike came within less than a mile of the Whipple Observatory, which had to be evacuated until firefighters, aided by a sudden rainstorm, were able to control it.
Earlier this year, a fire west of Nogales prompted a brief closing of the MMT Observatory, which is also atop Mount Hopkins. The observatory's large telescope, 21 feet in diameter, is the 14th largest in the world and is sought after by researchers looking into deep space. Besides less-than-optimal viewing conditions caused by the fire, operators were worried about the buildup of ash on the mirror.
Well after the sun has set, from 8,500 feet up on Mount Hopkins, the second-highest peak in the Santa Rita Range, one can observe both the majestic nature of the universe and the threats to the stargazing that has long gone on here. Competing with moonlight are street lights, traffic lights, security lights and innumerable other forms of illumination. To the north is the Tucson skyline, a vast expanse of soft white and yellow light, which has been managed by municipal dark-sky restrictions and has not grown in intensity anywhere near as fast as the population.
Astronomers are a powerful lobby here when it comes to keeping the skies dark at night, and nearby Tucson is the headquarters for the International Dark-Sky Association, which attempts to press for light restrictions around the world. ''Light pollution is an issue all over the world,'' said Paul J. Groot, an astronomer from the Netherlands who was conducting research on the source of X-rays from other galaxies at the MMT Observatory this week. ''It limits our deep observation of the night sky.''
An open-pit copper mine that is proposed for an area southeast of Tucson and would operate around the clock has alarmed dark-sky advocates, even though the Rosemont Copper Company has said it plans to abide by Pima County's restrictions on light pollution.
''When these observatories were selected, there was hardly anyone living here,'' Mr. Brocious said atop the mountain as darkness and light seemed to compete in all directions. ''Tucson was a sleepy little cow town back then. There's nothing sleepy about it now.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the growing difficulty caused by light pollution at astronomical observatories in southern Arizona misidentified the part of the large telescope at the MMT Observatory that was endangered by an accumulation of ash from a recent wildfire. It was a mirror, not a lens.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory at Mount Hopkins, Ariz. Dan Brocious, right, a spokesman for the observatory, with its giant telescope. Below, a sign near the observatory asks drivers to use their low beams. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (92%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (71%); HELICOPTERS (66%); FOREST FIRES (64%); FIRES (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); RETAILERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (99%); EARTH (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



640 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: New York Attorney General Is Investigating Trump's For-Profit School

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
The New York State attorney general's office is investigating whether a for-profit school founded by Donald J. Trump, which charges students up to $35,000 a course, has engaged in illegal business practices, according to people briefed on the inquiry.
The investigation was prompted by about a dozen complaints concerning the Trump school that the attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, has found to be ''credible'' and ''serious,'' these people said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the investigation was not yet public.
The inquiry is part of a broader examination of the for-profit education industry by Mr. Schneiderman's office, which is opening investigations into at least five education companies that operate or have students in the state, according to the people speaking on the condition of anonymity.
The investigation is the latest problem for a six-year-old company, known until last year as Trump University, that already faces a string of consumer complaints, reprimands from state regulators and a lawsuit from dissatisfied former students. 
George Sorial, a managing director of the Trump Organization, confirmed that the company had received a subpoena from the attorney general's office, and said, ''We look forward to resolving this matter and intend to fully cooperate with their inquiry.''
Mr. Schneiderman is looking into whether the schools and their recruiters misrepresent their ability to findstudents jobs, the quality of instruction, the cost of attending, and their programs accreditation, among other things. Such activities could constitute deceptive trade practices or fraud.
The four other companies are the Career Education Corporation, which runs the Sanford-Brown Institute, Briarcliffe College and American InterContintental University; Corinthian Colleges, the parent company of Everest Institute, WyoTech and Heald Colleges; Lincoln Educational Services, the owner of Lincoln Technical and Lincoln Colleges Online; and Bridgepoint Education, the operator of Ashford University.
Spokesmen for Lincoln Educational Services, Bridgeport Education and Corinthian Colleges each said the companies had been sent requests for information by the attorney general's office and would comply with them.
A representative of Career Education Corporation declined to comment.
For-profit schools have become big business in the United States, especially as the unemployed seek a way back into the work force. Some of those schools, however, have been accused of creating as much economic harm as help: students have reported falling deep into debt to pay for classes that they said had failed to deliver what they had promised.
Mr. Trump's institution is unique among for-profit schools: it is built almost entirely around the prestige and prominence of a single individual. Mr. Trump said he created the university in 2005 to impart decades' worth of his business acumen to the general public. He aggressively marketed the school, telling students that his handpicked instructors would ''teach you better than the best business school,'' according to a transcript of a Web video.
The school has charged premium prices because of the Trump name, with the cost of the courses ranging from $1,500 to $35,000 each.
But, as The New York Times reported last week, dozens of students have complained about the quality of the program to the attorneys general of New York, Texas, Florida and Illinois. The Better Business Bureau gave the school a D-minus for 2010, its second-lowest grade, after receiving 23 complaints. Over the last three years, New York and Maryland have told the company to drop the word ''university'' from its title, saying that using it violated state education laws. (The school was renamed the Trump Entrepreneur Initiative in 2010.)
Four former students filed a suit against Trump University last year in a federal court in California, seeking class-action status. They contended that the school used high-pressure sales tactics to enroll students in the costly classes, promised extensive one-on-one instruction that did not materialize and employed ''mentors'' who at times recommended investments from which they stood to profit.
Mr. Sorial of the Trump Organization, which oversees Mr. Trump's businesses, forcefully disputed those claims. He said on Thursday that 95 percent of the school's students in New York had rated their courses as ''excellent'' on evaluation forms. The school's national average is even higher, he said.
''Our customer satisfaction surveys speak for themselves,'' he said.
As its troubles have mounted, the school has suspended new classes and begun overhauling its curriculum, executives said. One priority is finding a way to inject more of Mr. Trump into the program.
''The one thing is that they really wanted me involved, instead of the teachers,'' Mr. Trump said in an interview last week.
In interviews, several former students said they felt betrayed by the real estate mogul and his school, especially after investing tens of thousands of dollars in what they thought was to be a comprehensive education.
''They lure you in with false promises,'' said Patricia Murphy, 57, of the Bronx, who is among the former students suing Mr. Trump, whose suit makes similar claims. She said she had spent about $12,000 on Trump University classes, much of it paid with credit cards, in the hope of escaping her career as a part-time teacher and becoming a real estate investor.
Her instructors said they would introduce her to banks, help her secure loans and walk her, step by step, through deals, she recalled. ''They did none of that,'' she said. ''I was scammed.''
Mr. Sorial said the school was looking into Ms. Murphy's claims.
Carmen Mendez, 59, a public school teacher in Brooklyn, wrote to the Better Business Bureau in 2009 about her disappointment with the school -- and with Mr. Trump. She said she had dipped into her retirement savings to pay nearly $35,000 for the classes, because ''Mr. Trump is a very respectable person, and I thought that Trump University was a real institution,'' she said in the letter to the Better Business Bureau.
An instructor promised her, she wrote, that the school guaranteed financial assistance to buy e real estate. But once she had enrolled, Ms. Mendez wrote, she was refused such assistance. Because her credit cards were loaded with debt to pay for the classes, mortgage brokers told her she was ineligible for a loan, she said.
''I am writing because I want people to be aware that Trump University is not a real educational institution,'' she told the Better Business Bureau. ''Please advise other people so they do not lose their savings in these difficult days.''
Mr. Sorial said that the school tried to offer Ms. Mendez a full refund more than six months ago. ''She failed to return our numerous calls and e-mails,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dozens of students have complained about the quality of Trump University, which charged up to $35,000 per course.
 Donald J. Trump says students at his school want him to be more involved. A representative defended the school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (94%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (74%); ACCREDITATION (73%); SUBPOENAS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); BRIDGEPOINT EDUCATION INC (71%); CAREER EDUCATION CORP (67%); LINCOLN EDUCATIONAL SERVICES CORP (53%); HEALD COLLEGES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (91%)

TICKER: BPI (NYSE) (71%); CECO (NASDAQ) (67%); LINC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); NAICS611519 OTHER TECHNICAL & TRADE SCHOOLS (53%); NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (53%); NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (53%); SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (53%); SIC8244 BUSINESS & SECRETARIAL SCHOOLS (53%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



641 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: At I.M.F., Men on Prowl and Women on Guard

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- It is an international island in the midst of the American capital, a sharp-elbowed place ruled by alpha male economists. The days are long, and employees are regularly pressed together for weeks on end during overseas ''missions.'' It is a climate in which romances often flourish -- and lines are sometimes crossed.
Some women avoid wearing skirts for fear of attracting unwanted attention. Others trade whispered tips about overly forward bosses. A 2008 internal review found few restraints on the conduct of senior managers, concluding that ''the absence of public ethics scandals seems to be more a consequence of luck than good planning and action.''
This is life at the International Monetary Fund, the lender of last resort for governments that need money and, under the leadership of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, an emerging force in the regulation of the global economy. 
But with Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest earlier this week and indictment on Thursday on charges that he tried to rape a New York hotel housekeeper, a spotlight has been cast on the culture of the institution. And questions have been revived about a 2008 episode in which the I.M.F. decided that Mr. Strauss-Kahn had not broken any rules in sleeping with a female employee.
What may draw even more attention to the culture of the fund is the revelation of an affair involving a potential successor to Mr. Strauss-Kahn, who resigned as managing director on Wednesday. Kemal Dervis of Turkey had a liaison while working at the World Bank years ago with a woman who now works at the I.M.F., according to a person with direct knowledge of the relationship.
Interviews and documents paint a picture of the fund as an institution whose sexual norms and customs are markedly different from those of Washington, leaving its female employees vulnerable to harassment. The laws of the United States do not apply inside its walls, and until earlier this month the I.M.F.'s own rules contained an unusual provision that some experts and former officials say has encouraged managers to pursue the women who work for them: ''Intimate personal relationships between supervisors and subordinates do not, in themselves, constitute harassment.''
''It's sort of like 'Pirates of the Caribbean'; the rules are more like guidelines,'' said Carmen M. Reinhart, a prominent female economist who served as the I.M.F.'s deputy director for research from 2001 to 2003. ''That sets the stage, I think, for more risk-taking.''
In 2007, officials at the fund declined to investigate a complaint by an administrative assistant who had slept with her supervisor, and who charged that he had given her poor performance reviews to pressure her to continue the relationship. Officials told the woman that the supervisor planned to retire soon, and therefore there was no point in investigating the charges, according to findings by the I.M.F.'s internal court.
The official, who is not named in the records, told investigators that he also had a sexual relationship with a second employee, and that he did not believe he had acted improperly.
In another case, a young woman who has since left the I.M.F. said that in 2009, a senior manager in her department started sending her increasingly explicit e-mails seeking a relationship. She complained to her boss, who did not take any action.
''They said they took it seriously, but two minutes later they were turning around and acting like everything was O.K. to the person who had done it to me,'' said the woman, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she still works in the international development community. ''He wasn't punished. Not at all.''
Virginia R. Canter, who joined the I.M.F. last year with responsibility for investigating harassment claims, said the institution recently took a series of strong steps to protect employees. A new code of conduct adopted on May 6 specifies that intimate relationships with subordinates ''are likely to result in conflicts of interest'' and must be disclosed to the proper authorities.
''It's recognizing that sometimes relationships grow in the workplace,'' Ms. Canter said. ''But it doesn't mean we're not sensitive to this issue and we will investigate if there is evidence to suggest harassment.''
She also said that the fund would not again brush aside an employee complaint like the one from the assistant who was sleeping with her boss. ''Absolutely that wouldn't have happened today,'' she said. ''We would investigate the matter.''
The I.M.F., created in 1945, has 2,400 employees evaluating the economic health of nations from a pair of huge Washington buildings and on regular trips abroad. When nations borrow money from the fund, they typically must agree to adopt economic reforms, and employees are sent to watch their progress.
In recent years the fund has tried to diversify by hiring more women, Even so, only six of the I.M.F.'s 30 senior executives are women. Only 21.5 percent of all managers at the fund are women, compared with 32 percent at its sister institution, the World Bank, and 26 percent at the United Nations secretariat.
Some women say the fund is a welcoming work environment.
''I haven't met any cases in my career of sexual harassment,'' said Teresa Ter-Minassian, who spent 37 years at the I.M.F. and retired last year as director of the fiscal affairs department.
Some issues arise from cultural differences. In one case, a married Muslim woman complained when her European boss paid her a compliment that was innocuous but unrelated to work, the only subject she considered permissible.
''Culturally, there are a lot of people thrown together,'' said Susan Schadler, who spent 32 years at the fund, rising to deputy director of the European department before leaving in 2007. ''There's a lot of scope for misunderstanding, misreading signals. I think that's a particular vulnerability for the fund.''
The new relationship policy is a response to the 2008 case in which a Hungarian economist, Piroska M. Nagy, had a relationship with Mr. Strauss-Kahn.
Ms. Nagy described herself in a letter to investigators as ''damned if I did and damned if I didn't.''
An independent investigation found that Mr. Strauss-Kahn had not abused his power. Though he apologized publicly, many women at the I.M.F. were dismayed by the outcome.
''What are we supposed to make of this when we go into Strauss-Kahn's office?'' Ms. Schadler said, recounting conversations with former colleagues. ''Do we sit there and think, 'He's sizing me up as a potential sexual object?' ''
''There is this implicit culture that this wasn't really seen as something that the fund is going to worry about,'' she said, ''and I think that's what bothered women.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters gathered in front of the I.M.F. on Wednesday to rally against its leader, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who was charged with attempted rape this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); WOMEN (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); ETHICS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INDICTMENTS (67%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



642 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2077 words

HEADLINE: Sculpture In High Relief

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
It has been a while since sculpture could be dismissed as ''something you bump into when you back up to look at a painting,'' as Ad Reinhardt, the Abstract Expressionist painter, once said. Even before Reinhardt died, in 1967, the medium was going supernova, expanding and diversifying at an astounding pace. First it began incorporating all manner of found objects and nontraditional materials; then it lifted brilliant color from painting and achieved new levels of abstraction. Since then it has come to include installations, environments, land art, performance and all manner of spectacle.
Right now sculpture is enjoying a high-profile moment, thanks to a head-spinning assortment of solo shows in Chelsea and elsewhere. Some present recent work by living artists spanning several generations; others showcase fascinating historical material of varying vintages. There are more shows than can comfortably be encompassed here, so what follows is a selective tour.
In Chelsea work by three major figures of postwar American art -- John Chamberlain, 84; Jasper Johns, 81; and Donald Judd, who died in 1994 but would now be 82 -- form something of a high-end trifecta. All played pivotal if very different roles in turning sculpture away from traditional figuration and toward new relationships with found objects, materials, process, color and the viewer's space. 
Mr. Chamberlain, having recently joined the Gagosian franchise, is making a stunning debut at that gallery's West 24th Street big-top space. (There is also a relatively scattershot, seemingly sour-grapes exhibition of his work at his former representative, the Pace Gallery, in its West 22nd Street space, but never mind).
Among the largest works he has ever made, the Chamberlain sculptures at Gagosian all incorporate his signature crushed car bodies, fashioned with tremendous compositional variety and verve, and his usual unerring color sense. Variously comical, stately, architectural and gestural, these pieces erupt from the gallery's expansive concrete floors like unusually well-shaped mesas, turning the totality into an exhilarating indoor landscape.
Mr. Johns's show at Matthew Marks's West 22nd Street gallery is as quiet as Mr. Chamberlain's is boisterous. It centers on a series of reliefs that perfectly illustrate Mr. Johns's best-known axiom: ''Take an object. Do something to it. Do something else to it.'' As stated in Mr. Johns's revealing conversation with the painter Terry Winters in the show's catalog, these works stem from a relieflike SculptMetal grid of the numbers zero through nine that Mr. Johns made somewhat hurriedly and a bit on the cheap as a commission for Lincoln Center in 1964.
Recently he made a sturdier, more precise version from scratch, which unexpectedly yielded a wax model of the piece, in addition to the radiant aluminum final cast on view at Marks. With typical economy, he did ''something else'' with the wax work, creating six smaller, exquisite two-sided relief fragments in bronze, aluminum and even silver that conflate painting, sculpture and printmaking in a new way.
It takes a while to enter into the obsessive concentration that suffuses these works, with their shifting textures, newsprint scraps and other small objects, all embalmed in cast metal. Their combination of lapidary detail and casual process reveals the intensity of Mr. Johns's mind with unusual clarity.
Meanwhile, the David Zwirner gallery is celebrating its new representation of the Judd Foundation with an exhibition of nine large anodized boxes made in Switzerland in 1989 and never before shown in such numbers in the United States. From a few feet away, the boxes appear as identical silvery aluminum sheaths, open on top, just over three feet tall and nearly seven feet wide and deep. Up close, however, their interior volumes take over, each articulated in surprising and expansive ways by various vertical divisions and bright Plexiglas floors. Each box is a well of space and color whose overlapping, intersecting planes evoke Judd's origins as a painter and his lifelong admiration for painters like Barnett Newman, Mark Rothko and Josef Albers, who favored simple forms and strong color.
Two other exhibitions in Chelsea unearth very different parts of the more distant past. A show at the D. C. Moore Gallery rescues from oblivion 11 wood sculptures made by Mary Frank between 1957 and 1967, just as Mr. Johns, Mr. Chamberlain and Judd were making their names. These gruffly carved, erotically charged pieces draw from Brancusi, Degas and folk art, and their fusions of forms -- human and not -- feel vital and contemporary. Several pieces start in one place and end somewhere else entirely, like ''Leafing,'' which suggests a figure in an extreme one-legged yoga pose from one side and a strangely flirtatious bit of topiary from the other.
And surely one of the most startling art historical sights in all of New York right now is on offer at the Tony Shafrazi Gallery: Vladimir Tatlin's wacky, visionary ''Monument to the Third International'' -- one of early Modernism's most ambitious and best-known works of unrealized architecture, as embodied by one of its biggest architectural models. It is being shown in the United States for the first time, surrounded by an extensive display of Russian film posters from the 1920s and early '30s.
This tilting, spiraling, viaductlike structure was concocted by Tatlin (1885-1953), a founder of Russian Constructivism, between 1915 and 1920, after a 1913 trip to Paris that involved close encounters with the Eiffel Tower and with Picasso's guitar constructions (currently the subject of a heady exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art). The spiral, intended to rise higher than the Eiffel Tower, wraps around a stack of four geometric buildings -- a cube, a pyramid, a cylinder and a hemisphere -- each meant to rotate at a yearly, monthly, weekly or daily rate.
Planned to house the new Communist government in what was then Petrograd (St. Petersburg), the monument was a pipe dream of a structure; by 1932 the nearly 16-foot-tall model itself had vanished. Today it exists only in several actual-size copies. (The version at Shafrazi is the first, made in 1967 in consultation with T. M. Shapiro, Tatlin's collaborator.) Much of late-20th-century sculpture seems presaged by this idiosyncratic amalgam, not least the geometric forms of Minimalism, and the spirals of Robert Smithson and Richard Serra.
And completely by chance -- but who knows? -- the latest sculptures from the Post-Minimalist Richard Tuttle, on view at the Pace Gallery on West 25th Street, seem to riff on Tatlin's tower, or at least its precarious permeability. Each presents a kind of stage-set-like open volume within which all kinds of sculptural events unfold, patched together from colorful, lightweight materials and objects. Quite a bit larger than Mr. Tuttle's usual work, these pieces evince a somewhat slovenly, art-supplies Constructivism that is characteristically light, ephemeral and full of joy.
Other worthwhile sculpture shows in Chelsea include Jene Highstein's display of new sandblasted (and vaguely ceramiclike) aluminum orbs and spires, forming a landscape of their own at Danese; David Nyzio's show at Postmasters, where the most interesting piece is a modest row of gleaming white blocks of salt, whose seemingly water-worn, scholars'-rock nooks and crannies were unwittingly licked into being by a flock of sheep over several years; and, at Meulensteen, the latest in flexible sculpture, furniture and partitions from the Slovenian artist Tobias Putrih -- all made from thin, perforated sheets of black-painted aluminum that can be bolted together any number of ways. These last recall Modernist ideals that Tatlin would have embraced.
One of the city's best sculpture shows is on the Upper East Side and features neither contemporary nor Western art: the ravishing display of Kota reliquary figures from West Africa that the Paris dealer Bernard Dulon has orchestrated at Friedman & Vallois. These works are familiar from art history texts because their large, concave faces; stylized features; inventively worked bronze and copper surfaces; and ineffably human geometries exerted a crucial influence on early French Modernism, starting with Picasso's ''Demoiselles d'Avignon.'' This show provides a rare opportunity to study 15 examples free of glass vitrines and to appreciate the variety of surface, technique and expression that this style afforded individual artists. It is breathtaking.
Returning to the present and moving downtown, at the shoestring Lower East Side gallery Ramiken Crucible, Elaine Cameron-Weir explores Minimalist simplicity with wit and variety. Her works include a Persian rug dipped in indigo dye; a long, gracefully curved wood dowel covered in rolling tobacco; and, best of all, ''Pedestal,'' a tall, narrow, stepped monolith tenderly worked in plaster that resembles an architectural model for a skyscraper.
Nearby, at Rachel Uffner on Orchard Street, Hilary Harnischfeger is showing a series of intriguing vessel-like objects that combine fired multicolored clay extended and impacted with plaster, paper and chunks of rock and quartz. They improve upon her already striking carved-paper paintings.
The best solo debut in sculpture during this Manhattan minute is that of David Adamo, a 32-year-old New York artist living in Berlin. After drawing interest in the Whitney Biennial and MoMA/P.S. 1's ''Greater New York'' last year, Mr. Adamo pulls out most of the stops at the Untitled gallery, also on Orchard Street, presenting an extended meditation on sculpture, its materials, evocations and techniques, both additive and subtractive. The installation begins with a New England stone wall that reads as a lumpy Carl Andre sculpture. Beyond awaits a Brancusi-like array of cedar beams (an early Andre staple) and wood chips. Some beams are hollowed out, like incipient canoes or coffins; more are carved to the breaking point, but remain upright.
Casualness alternates with bravura precision. A delicate violin scroll emerges from one block of wood; a slight-looking string ladder turns out to be copper wire carefully wrapped in cream-color yarn. And trompe-l'oeil-painted plaster casts of partially eaten fruit are strewn everywhere -- a dispersed vanitas that recalls Mr. Johns's love of detail. Slightly anomalous is a finely wrought half-size re-creation of an old, heavily paneled double door painted bright red that Mr. Adamo passes daily in Berlin. A matter-of-fact homage to endurance and traditional values, perhaps, it anchors the show's inspiring message: sculpture can be whatever you make it.
3-D Without Special Glasses
A selection of shows in Manhattan:
DAVID ADAMO Through June 19. Untitled, 30 Orchard Street; (212) 608-6002, nyuntitled.com.
DAVID NYZIO Through Saturday. Postmasters Art, 459 West 19th Street; (212) 727-3323, postmastersart.com.
DONALD JUDD Through June 25. David Zwirner, 525 and 533 West 19th Street; (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com.
ELAINE CAMERON-WEIR Through June 18. Ramiken Crucible, 389 Grand Street; (917) 434-4245, ramikencrucible.com.
JASPER JOHNS Through July 1. Matthew Marks, 522 West 22nd Street; (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com.
JENE HIGHSTEIN Through next Friday. Danese, 535 West 24th Street; (212) 223-2227, danese.com.
JOHN CHAMBERLAIN Through July 8. Gagosian, 555 West 24th Street; (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com.
KOTA ANCESTORS Through June 11. Friedman & Vallois, 27 East 67th Street; (212) 517-3820, vallois.com.
MARY FRANK Through June 4. D. C. Moore, 535 West 22nd Street; (212) 247-2111, dcmooregallery.com.
HILARY HARNISCHFEGER Through June 19. Rachel Uffner, 47 Orchard Street; (212) 274-0064; racheluffnergallery.com.
RICHARD TUTTLE Through July 22. Pace, 510 West 25th Street; (212) 255-4044, thepacegallery.com.
VLADIMIR TATLIN Through July 30. Tony Shafrazi, 544 West 26th Street; (212) 274-9300, tonyshafrazigallery.com.
TOBIAS PUTRIH Through June 25. Meulensteen, 511 West 22nd Street; meulensteen.com.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 25, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An art review on Friday about sculpture exhibitions in New York misidentified the country where nine anodized aluminum boxes by Donald Judd, on display at the David Zwirner gallery on West 19th Street, were made. It is Switzerland, not Germany. (They were exhibited in Germany in 1989, the year they were made.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A viewer peruses Jasper Johns's work at the Matthew Marks Gallery in Chelsea, among one of a number of sculpture shows in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C21)
Clockwise from left, Donald Judd's luminous boxes at David Zwirner
David Adamo's Brancusi-like array of cedar beams at Untitled
and John Chamberlain's signature crushed car bodies at the Gagosian Gallery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A copy of Vladimir Tatlin's ''Monument to the Third International.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./ THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Top insert, a Kota reliquary figure from 19th-century Gabon, west central Africa
above, Mary Frank pieces at the D. C. Moore Gallery
right, Richard Tuttle's ''System 3, Measurement,'' at Pace Gallery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BERNARD DULON/FRIEDMAN & VALLOIS GALLERY
 SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (91%); SCULPTURE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HISTORY (68%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (64%); GABON (64%); AFRICA (64%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



643 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: The Big Society

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
London
Fifty years ago, Jane Jacobs published a book called ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities.'' The book was not only an indictment of contemporary urban development; it offered a vision for a healthy community. Jacobs described a streetscape as an organic ballet, as the comings and goings of shop owners, office workers, cops and parents. She described the complex interplay of many different types of people on one city block.
Here in Britain, Prime Minister David Cameron's government is trying to foster that sort of society. Until Cameron, Britain -- like the U.S. -- had one party that spoke on behalf of the market (the Conservatives) and one party that spoke on behalf of the state (Labour). But Cameron is initiating a series of policies, under the rubric ''Big Society,'' that seek to nurture community bonds, civic activism and social capital. 
The Big Society started in part as a political gadget, as a way to distinguish the current Conservatives from the more individualistic ethos of the Thatcher years. It has turned out to be something of a damp squid politically. Most voters have no idea what the phrase ''Big Society'' means. But, substantively, the legislative package has been a success. The British government is undergoing a fundamental transformation.
Cameron inherited one of the largest governments in the affluent world (under Gordon Brown, the public spending reached 51 percent of G.D.P.). It was also one of the most centralized. The national government accounts for 70 percent of total government spending in Britain, compared with 55 percent in the U.S., 35 percent in Japan and 20 percent in Germany.
Cameron has unveiled a series of measures to decentralize power to local governments, to increase government transparency and to disburse welfare provisions to a variety of delivery mechanisms.
His government has boosted the number of charter schools. There's been a welfare reform bill to encourage work and to get rid of the perverse incentives that induced people to remain on the dole. The police forces are going to have to start answering to the public. Twelve more big cities will have now elected mayors. Local communities have more control of federal money and run things themselves. There's been a raft of provisions trying to use the insights from behavioral economics.
Cameron's trying to get the British people to change their social norms. Many British governments have effectively said: If you pay your taxes you can sit back and we experts will take care of your problems. The Thatcher government said: Get off your couch and start a business. Cameron says: Get off the couch and take responsibility for your community. Cameron is trying to spark active citizenship.
The measures are not without critics. From the left, Polly Toynbee, a columnist for The Guardian, argues that the current centralized system ensures uniformity and fairness. But with localism and decentralization, she continues, the richer areas will outperform the poorer areas. Inequality and corruption will replace fairness and uniformity.
Others see the Big Society as the gentle mask to cover savage spending cuts. Still others see it as upper-middle-class noblesse oblige. Working-class families who have two jobs and who come home exhausted at 10 in the evening don't need to be lectured by the government on why they should volunteer at the blood bank.
There's some truth to those critiques. But the Big Society programs still have the potential to produce enormous benefits for Britain.
The people who thrive in a globalized information economy have the ability to process complex waves of information. They have the ability to navigate incredibly diverse social environments.
Where do people learn these skills? They learn them when they grow up in and are nurtured by rich social networks. They learn them when they live within vibrant institutions that pass down practices and habits. They learn them when they live in areas of high social trust, where people are able to reach out and work together.
By decentralizing power, and inciting local energies, Cameron's reforms are fostering the sorts of environments where human capital grows.
Cameron still has to fight for these programs, especially against the bureaucracy's bias for uniformity and control. And the big shortcoming is that the Big Society skirts commercial life. If centralized government weakens community networks, then concentrated corporate power weakens the networks of entrepreneurs and tradesmen.
As the scholars at the think tank ResPublica have pointed out, big corporations use the complex tax code, dense regulations and state contracting rules to stifle small-business competition. Jane Jacob's vibrant sidewalks didn't only benefit from flourishing community groups, they benefitted from skilled workers linking together to share capital and work. The Big Society needs to connect with economic aspirations and broadly shared prosperity.
But, even so, Cameron is doing something interesting. No other government is trying so hard to tie public policy to the latest research into how we learn and grow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); WRITERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MAYORS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (50%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); GORDON BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



644 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5546 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Mideast Speech

 BODY:
Following is a text of President Obama's speech on the Middle East, delivered on Thursday in Washington, as released by the White House:
Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you very much. Thank you. Please, have a seat. Thank you very much. I want to begin by thanking Hillary Clinton, who has traveled so much these last six months that she is approaching a new landmark -- one million frequent flyer miles. (Laughter.) I count on Hillary every single day, and I believe that she will go down as one of the finest Secretaries of State in our nation's history.
The State Department is a fitting venue to mark a new chapter in American diplomacy. For six months, we have witnessed an extraordinary change taking place in the Middle East and North Africa. Square by square, town by town, country by country, the people have risen up to demand their basic human rights. Two leaders have stepped aside. More may follow. And though these countries may be a great distance from our shores, we know that our own future is bound to this region by the forces of economics and security, by history and by faith.
Today, I want to talk about this change -- the forces that are driving it and how we can respond in a way that advances our values and strengthens our security. 
Now, already, we've done much to shift our foreign policy following a decade defined by two costly conflicts. After years of war in Iraq, we've removed 100,000 American troops and ended our combat mission there. In Afghanistan, we've broken the Taliban's momentum, and this July we will begin to bring our troops home and continue a transition to Afghan lead. And after years of war against al Qaeda and its affiliates, we have dealt al Qaeda a huge blow by killing its leader, Osama bin Laden.
Bin Laden was no martyr. He was a mass murderer who offered a message of hate - an insistence that Muslims had to take up arms against the West, and that violence against men, women and children was the only path to change. He rejected democracy and individual rights for Muslims in favor of violent extremism; his agenda focused on what he could destroy - not what he could build.
Bin Laden and his murderous vision won some adherents. But even before his death, al Qaeda was losing its struggle for relevance, as the overwhelming majority of people saw that the slaughter of innocents did not answer their cries for a better life. By the time we found bin Laden, al Qaeda's agenda had come to be seen by the vast majority of the region as a dead end, and the people of the Middle East and North Africa had taken their future into their own hands.
That story of self-determination began six months ago in Tunisia. On December 17th, a young vendor named Mohammed Bouazizi was devastated when a police officer confiscated his cart. This was not unique. It's the same kind of humiliation that takes place every day in many parts of the world - the relentless tyranny of governments that deny their citizens dignity. Only this time, something different happened. After local officials refused to hear his complaints, this young man, who had never been particularly active in politics, went to the headquarters of the provincial government, doused himself in fuel, and lit himself on fire.
There are times in the course of history when the actions of ordinary citizens spark movements for change because they speak to a longing for freedom that has been building up for years. In America, think of the defiance of those patriots in Boston who refused to pay taxes to a King, or the dignity of Rosa Parks as she sat courageously in her seat. So it was in Tunisia, as that vendor's act of desperation tapped into the frustration felt throughout the country. Hundreds of protesters took to the streets, then thousands. And in the face of batons and sometimes bullets, they refused to go home - day after day, week after week -- until a dictator of more than two decades finally left power.
The story of this revolution, and the ones that followed, should not have come as a surprise. The nations of the Middle East and North Africa won their independence long ago, but in too many places their people did not. In too many countries, power has been concentrated in the hands of a few. In too many countries, a citizen like that young vendor had nowhere to turn - no honest judiciary to hear his case; no independent media to give him voice; no credible political party to represent his views; no free and fair election where he could choose his leader.
And this lack of self-determination - the chance to make your life what you will - has applied to the region's economy as well. Yes, some nations are blessed with wealth in oil and gas, and that has led to pockets of prosperity. But in a global economy based on knowledge, based on innovation, no development strategy can be based solely upon what comes out of the ground. Nor can people reach their potential when you cannot start a business without paying a bribe.
In the face of these challenges, too many leaders in the region tried to direct their people's grievances elsewhere. The West was blamed as the source of all ills, a half-century after the end of colonialism. Antagonism toward Israel became the only acceptable outlet for political expression. Divisions of tribe, ethnicity and religious sect were manipulated as a means of holding on to power, or taking it away from somebody else.
But the events of the past six months show us that strategies of repression and strategies of diversion will not work anymore. Satellite television and the Internet provide a window into the wider world - a world of astonishing progress in places like India and Indonesia and Brazil. Cell phones and social networks allow young people to connect and organize like never before. And so a new generation has emerged. And their voices tell us that change cannot be denied.
In Cairo, we heard the voice of the young mother who said, ''It's like I can finally breathe fresh air for the first time.''
In Sanaa, we heard the students who chanted, ''The night must come to an end.''
In Benghazi, we heard the engineer who said, ''Our words are free now. It's a feeling you can't explain.''
In Damascus, we heard the young man who said, ''After the first yelling, the first shout, you feel dignity.''
Those shouts of human dignity are being heard across the region. And through the moral force of nonviolence, the people of the region have achieved more change in six months than terrorists have accomplished in decades.
Of course, change of this magnitude does not come easily. In our day and age - a time of 24-hour news cycles and constant communication - people expect the transformation of the region to be resolved in a matter of weeks. But it will be years before this story reaches its end. Along the way, there will be good days and there will bad days. In some places, change will be swift; in others, gradual. And as we've already seen, calls for change may give way, in some cases, to fierce contests for power.
The question before us is what role America will play as this story unfolds. For decades, the United States has pursued a set of core interests in the region: countering terrorism and stopping the spread of nuclear weapons; securing the free flow of commerce and safe-guarding the security of the region; standing up for Israel's security and pursuing Arab-Israeli peace.
We will continue to do these things, with the firm belief that America's interests are not hostile to people's hopes; they're essential to them. We believe that no one benefits from a nuclear arms race in the region, or al Qaeda's brutal attacks. We believe people everywhere would see their economies crippled by a cut-off in energy supplies. As we did in the Gulf War, we will not tolerate aggression across borders, and we will keep our commitments to friends and partners.
Yet we must acknowledge that a strategy based solely upon the narrow pursuit of these interests will not fill an empty stomach or allow someone to speak their mind. Moreover, failure to speak to the broader aspirations of ordinary people will only feed the suspicion that has festered for years that the United States pursues our interests at their expense. Given that this mistrust runs both ways - as Americans have been seared by hostage-taking and violent rhetoric and terrorist attacks that have killed thousands of our citizens - a failure to change our approach threatens a deepening spiral of division between the United States and the Arab world.
And that's why, two years ago in Cairo, I began to broaden our engagement based upon mutual interests and mutual respect. I believed then - and I believe now - that we have a stake not just in the stability of nations, but in the self-determination of individuals. The status quo is not sustainable. Societies held together by fear and repression may offer the illusion of stability for a time, but they are built upon fault lines that will eventually tear asunder.
So we face a historic opportunity. We have the chance to show that America values the dignity of the street vendor in Tunisia more than the raw power of the dictator. There must be no doubt that the United States of America welcomes change that advances self-determination and opportunity. Yes, there will be perils that accompany this moment of promise. But after decades of accepting the world as it is in the region, we have a chance to pursue the world as it should be.
Of course, as we do, we must proceed with a sense of humility. It's not America that put people into the streets of Tunis or Cairo - it was the people themselves who launched these movements, and it's the people themselves that must ultimately determine their outcome.
Not every country will follow our particular form of representative democracy, and there will be times when our short-term interests don't align perfectly with our long-term vision for the region. But we can, and we will, speak out for a set of core principles - principles that have guided our response to the events over the past six months:
The United States opposes the use of violence and repression against the people of the region. (Applause.)
The United States supports a set of universal rights. And these rights include free speech, the freedom of peaceful assembly, the freedom of religion, equality for men and women under the rule of law, and the right to choose your own leaders - whether you live in Baghdad or Damascus, Sanaa or Tehran.
And we support political and economic reform in the Middle East and North Africa that can meet the legitimate aspirations of ordinary people throughout the region.
Our support for these principles is not a secondary interest. Today I want to make it clear that it is a top priority that must be translated into concrete actions, and supported by all of the diplomatic, economic and strategic tools at our disposal.
Let me be specific. First, it will be the policy of the United States to promote reform across the region, and to support transitions to democracy. That effort begins in Egypt and Tunisia, where the stakes are high - as Tunisia was at the vanguard of this democratic wave, and Egypt is both a longstanding partner and the Arab world's largest nation. Both nations can set a strong example through free and fair elections, a vibrant civil society, accountable and effective democratic institutions, and responsible regional leadership. But our support must also extend to nations where transitions have yet to take place.
Unfortunately, in too many countries, calls for change have thus far been answered by violence. The most extreme example is Libya, where Muammar Qaddafi launched a war against his own people, promising to hunt them down like rats. As I said when the United States joined an international coalition to intervene, we cannot prevent every injustice perpetrated by a regime against its people, and we have learned from our experience in Iraq just how costly and difficult it is to try to impose regime change by force - no matter how well-intentioned it may be.
But in Libya, we saw the prospect of imminent massacre, we had a mandate for action, and heard the Libyan people's call for help. Had we not acted along with our NATO allies and regional coalition partners, thousands would have been killed. The message would have been clear: Keep power by killing as many people as it takes. Now, time is working against Qaddafi. He does not have control over his country. The opposition has organized a legitimate and credible Interim Council. And when Qaddafi inevitably leaves or is forced from power, decades of provocation will come to an end, and the transition to a democratic Libya can proceed.
While Libya has faced violence on the greatest scale, it's not the only place where leaders have turned to repression to remain in power. Most recently, the Syrian regime has chosen the path of murder and the mass arrests of its citizens. The United States has condemned these actions, and working with the international community we have stepped up our sanctions on the Syrian regime - including sanctions announced yesterday on President Assad and those around him.
The Syrian people have shown their courage in demanding a transition to democracy. President Assad now has a choice: He can lead that transition, or get out of the way. The Syrian government must stop shooting demonstrators and allow peaceful protests. It must release political prisoners and stop unjust arrests. It must allow human rights monitors to have access to cities like Dara'a; and start a serious dialogue to advance a democratic transition. Otherwise, President Assad and his regime will continue to be challenged from within and will continue to be isolated abroad.
So far, Syria has followed its Iranian ally, seeking assistance from Tehran in the tactics of suppression. And this speaks to the hypocrisy of the Iranian regime, which says it stand for the rights of protesters abroad, yet represses its own people at home. Let's remember that the first peaceful protests in the region were in the streets of Tehran, where the government brutalized women and men, and threw innocent people into jail. We still hear the chants echo from the rooftops of Tehran. The image of a young woman dying in the streets is still seared in our memory. And we will continue to insist that the Iranian people deserve their universal rights, and a government that does not smother their aspirations.
Now, our opposition to Iran's intolerance and Iran's repressive measures, as well as its illicit nuclear program and its support of terror, is well known. But if America is to be credible, we must acknowledge that at times our friends in the region have not all reacted to the demands for consistent change -- with change that's consistent with the principles that I've outlined today. That's true in Yemen, where President Saleh needs to follow through on his commitment to transfer power. And that's true today in Bahrain.
Bahrain is a longstanding partner, and we are committed to its security. We recognize that Iran has tried to take advantage of the turmoil there, and that the Bahraini government has a legitimate interest in the rule of law.
Nevertheless, we have insisted both publicly and privately that mass arrests and brute force are at odds with the universal rights of Bahrain's citizens, and we will -- and such steps will not make legitimate calls for reform go away. The only way forward is for the government and opposition to engage in a dialogue, and you can't have a real dialogue when parts of the peaceful opposition are in jail. (Applause.) The government must create the conditions for dialogue, and the opposition must participate to forge a just future for all Bahrainis.
Indeed, one of the broader lessons to be drawn from this period is that sectarian divides need not lead to conflict. In Iraq, we see the promise of a multiethnic, multisectarian democracy. The Iraqi people have rejected the perils of political violence in favor of a democratic process, even as they've taken full responsibility for their own security. Of course, like all new democracies, they will face setbacks. But Iraq is poised to play a key role in the region if it continues its peaceful progress. And as they do, we will be proud to stand with them as a steadfast partner.
So in the months ahead, America must use all our influence to encourage reform in the region. Even as we acknowledge that each country is different, we need to speak honestly about the principles that we believe in, with friend and foe alike. Our message is simple: If you take the risks that reform entails, you will have the full support of the United States.
We must also build on our efforts to broaden our engagement beyond elites, so that we reach the people who will shape the future - particularly young people. We will continue to make good on the commitments that I made in Cairo - to build networks of entrepreneurs and expand exchanges in education, to foster cooperation in science and technology, and combat disease. Across the region, we intend to provide assistance to civil society, including those that may not be officially sanctioned, and who speak uncomfortable truths. And we will use the technology to connect with - and listen to - the voices of the people.
For the fact is, real reform does not come at the ballot box alone. Through our efforts we must support those basic rights to speak your mind and access information. We will support open access to the Internet, and the right of journalists to be heard - whether it's a big news organization or a lone blogger. In the 21st century, information is power, the truth cannot be hidden, and the legitimacy of governments will ultimately depend on active and informed citizens.
Such open discourse is important even if what is said does not square with our worldview. Let me be clear, America respects the right of all peaceful and law-abiding voices to be heard, even if we disagree with them. And sometimes we profoundly disagree with them.
We look forward to working with all who embrace genuine and inclusive democracy. What we will oppose is an attempt by any group to restrict the rights of others, and to hold power through coercion and not consent. Because democracy depends not only on elections, but also strong and accountable institutions, and the respect for the rights of minorities.
Such tolerance is particularly important when it comes to religion. In Tahrir Square, we heard Egyptians from all walks of life chant, ''Muslims, Christians, we are one.'' America will work to see that this spirit prevails - that all faiths are respected, and that bridges are built among them. In a region that was the birthplace of three world religions, intolerance can lead only to suffering and stagnation. And for this season of change to succeed, Coptic Christians must have the right to worship freely in Cairo, just as Shia must never have their mosques destroyed in Bahrain.
What is true for religious minorities is also true when it comes to the rights of women. History shows that countries are more prosperous and more peaceful when women are empowered. And that's why we will continue to insist that universal rights apply to women as well as men - by focusing assistance on child and maternal health; by helping women to teach, or start a business; by standing up for the right of women to have their voices heard, and to run for office. The region will never reach its full potential when more than half of its population is prevented from achieving their full potential. (Applause.)
Now, even as we promote political reform, even as we promote human rights in the region, our efforts can't stop there. So the second way that we must support positive change in the region is through our efforts to advance economic development for nations that are transitioning to democracy.
After all, politics alone has not put protesters into the streets. The tipping point for so many people is the more constant concern of putting food on the table and providing for a family. Too many people in the region wake up with few expectations other than making it through the day, perhaps hoping that their luck will change. Throughout the region, many young people have a solid education, but closed economies leave them unable to find a job. Entrepreneurs are brimming with ideas, but corruption leaves them unable to profit from those ideas.
The greatest untapped resource in the Middle East and North Africa is the talent of its people. In the recent protests, we see that talent on display, as people harness technology to move the world. It's no coincidence that one of the leaders of Tahrir Square was an executive for Google. That energy now needs to be channeled, in country after country, so that economic growth can solidify the accomplishments of the street. For just as democratic revolutions can be triggered by a lack of individual opportunity, successful democratic transitions depend upon an expansion of growth and broad-based prosperity.
So, drawing from what we've learned around the world, we think it's important to focus on trade, not just aid; on investment, not just assistance. The goal must be a model in which protectionism gives way to openness, the reigns of commerce pass from the few to the many, and the economy generates jobs for the young. America's support for democracy will therefore be based on ensuring financial stability, promoting reform, and integrating competitive markets with each other and the global economy. And we're going to start with Tunisia and Egypt.
First, we've asked the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to present a plan at next week's G8 summit for what needs to be done to stabilize and modernize the economies of Tunisia and Egypt. Together, we must help them recover from the disruptions of their democratic upheaval, and support the governments that will be elected later this year. And we are urging other countries to help Egypt and Tunisia meet its near-term financial needs.
Second, we do not want a democratic Egypt to be saddled by the debts of its past. So we will relieve a democratic Egypt of up to $1 billion in debt, and work with our Egyptian partners to invest these resources to foster growth and entrepreneurship. We will help Egypt regain access to markets by guaranteeing $1 billion in borrowing that is needed to finance infrastructure and job creation. And we will help newly democratic governments recover assets that were stolen.
Third, we're working with Congress to create Enterprise Funds to invest in Tunisia and Egypt. And these will be modeled on funds that supported the transitions in Eastern Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. OPIC will soon launch a $2 billion facility to support private investment across the region. And we will work with the allies to refocus the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development so that it provides the same support for democratic transitions and economic modernization in the Middle East and North Africa as it has in Europe.
Fourth, the United States will launch a comprehensive Trade and Investment Partnership Initiative in the Middle East and North Africa. If you take out oil exports, this entire region of over 400 million people exports roughly the same amount as Switzerland. So we will work with the EU to facilitate more trade within the region, build on existing agreements to promote integration with U.S. and European markets, and open the door for those countries who adopt high standards of reform and trade liberalization to construct a regional trade arrangement. And just as EU membership served as an incentive for reform in Europe, so should the vision of a modern and prosperous economy create a powerful force for reform in the Middle East and North Africa.
Prosperity also requires tearing down walls that stand in the way of progress - the corruption of elites who steal from their people; the red tape that stops an idea from becoming a business; the patronage that distributes wealth based on tribe or sect. We will help governments meet international obligations, and invest efforts at anti-corruption -- by working with parliamentarians who are developing reforms, and activists who use technology to increase transparency and hold government accountable. Politics and human rights; economic reform.
Let me conclude by talking about another cornerstone of our approach to the region, and that relates to the pursuit of peace.
For decades, the conflict between Israelis and Arabs has cast a shadow over the region. For Israelis, it has meant living with the fear that their children could be blown up on a bus or by rockets fired at their homes, as well as the pain of knowing that other children in the region are taught to hate them. For Palestinians, it has meant suffering the humiliation of occupation, and never living in a nation of their own. Moreover, this conflict has come with a larger cost to the Middle East, as it impedes partnerships that could bring greater security and prosperity and empowerment to ordinary people.
For over two years, my administration has worked with the parties and the international community to end this conflict, building on decades of work by previous administrations. Yet expectations have gone unmet. Israeli settlement activity continues. Palestinians have walked away from talks. The world looks at a conflict that has grinded on and on and on, and sees nothing but stalemate. Indeed, there are those who argue that with all the change and uncertainty in the region, it is simply not possible to move forward now.
I disagree. At a time when the people of the Middle East and North Africa are casting off the burdens of the past, the drive for a lasting peace that ends the conflict and resolves all claims is more urgent than ever. That's certainly true for the two parties involved.
For the Palestinians, efforts to delegitimize Israel will end in failure. Symbolic actions to isolate Israel at the United Nations in September won't create an independent state. Palestinian leaders will not achieve peace or prosperity if Hamas insists on a path of terror and rejection. And Palestinians will never realize their independence by denying the right of Israel to exist.
As for Israel, our friendship is rooted deeply in a shared history and shared values. Our commitment to Israel's security is unshakeable. And we will stand against attempts to single it out for criticism in international forums. But precisely because of our friendship, it's important that we tell the truth: The status quo is unsustainable, and Israel too must act boldly to advance a lasting peace.
The fact is, a growing number of Palestinians live west of the Jordan River. Technology will make it harder for Israel to defend itself. A region undergoing profound change will lead to populism in which millions of people - not just one or two leaders -- must believe peace is possible. The international community is tired of an endless process that never produces an outcome. The dream of a Jewish and democratic state cannot be fulfilled with permanent occupation.
Now, ultimately, it is up to the Israelis and Palestinians to take action. No peace can be imposed upon them -- not by the United States; not by anybody else. But endless delay won't make the problem go away. What America and the international community can do is to state frankly what everyone knows -- a lasting peace will involve two states for two peoples: Israel as a Jewish state and the homeland for the Jewish people, and the state of Palestine as the homeland for the Palestinian people, each state enjoying self-determination, mutual recognition, and peace.
So while the core issues of the conflict must be negotiated, the basis of those negotiations is clear: a viable Palestine, a secure Israel. The United States believes that negotiations should result in two states, with permanent Palestinian borders with Israel, Jordan, and Egypt, and permanent Israeli borders with Palestine. We believe the borders of Israel and Palestine should be based on the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps, so that secure and recognized borders are established for both states. The Palestinian people must have the right to govern themselves, and reach their full potential, in a sovereign and contiguous state.
As for security, every state has the right to self-defense, and Israel must be able to defend itself - by itself - against any threat. Provisions must also be robust enough to prevent a resurgence of terrorism, to stop the infiltration of weapons, and to provide effective border security. The full and phased withdrawal of Israeli military forces should be coordinated with the assumption of Palestinian security responsibility in a sovereign, non-militarized state. And the duration of this transition period must be agreed, and the effectiveness of security arrangements must be demonstrated.
These principles provide a foundation for negotiations. Palestinians should know the territorial outlines of their state; Israelis should know that their basic security concerns will be met. I'm aware that these steps alone will not resolve the conflict, because two wrenching and emotional issues will remain: the future of Jerusalem, and the fate of Palestinian refugees. But moving forward now on the basis of territory and security provides a foundation to resolve those two issues in a way that is just and fair, and that respects the rights and aspirations of both Israelis and Palestinians.
Now, let me say this: Recognizing that negotiations need to begin with the issues of territory and security does not mean that it will be easy to come back to the table. In particular, the recent announcement of an agreement between Fatah and Hamas raises profound and legitimate questions for Israel: How can one negotiate with a party that has shown itself unwilling to recognize your right to exist? And in the weeks and months to come, Palestinian leaders will have to provide a credible answer to that question. Meanwhile, the United States, our Quartet partners, and the Arab states will need to continue every effort to get beyond the current impasse.
I recognize how hard this will be. Suspicion and hostility has been passed on for generations, and at times it has hardened. But I'm convinced that the majority of Israelis and Palestinians would rather look to the future than be trapped in the past. We see that spirit in the Israeli father whose son was killed by Hamas, who helped start an organization that brought together Israelis and Palestinians who had lost loved ones. That father said, ''I gradually realized that the only hope for progress was to recognize the face of the conflict.'' We see it in the actions of a Palestinian who lost three daughters to Israeli shells in Gaza. ''I have the right to feel angry,'' he said. ''So many people were expecting me to hate. My answer to them is I shall not hate. Let us hope,'' he said, ''for tomorrow.''
That is the choice that must be made - not simply in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but across the entire region - a choice between hate and hope; between the shackles of the past and the promise of the future. It's a choice that must be made by leaders and by the people, and it's a choice that will define the future of a region that served as the cradle of civilization and a crucible of strife.
For all the challenges that lie ahead, we see many reasons to be hopeful. In Egypt, we see it in the efforts of young people who led protests. In Syria, we see it in the courage of those who brave bullets while chanting, ''peaceful, peaceful.'' In Benghazi, a city threatened with destruction, we see it in the courthouse square where people gather to celebrate the freedoms that they had never known. Across the region, those rights that we take for granted are being claimed with joy by those who are prying lose the grip of an iron fist.
For the American people, the scenes of upheaval in the region may be unsettling, but the forces driving it are not unfamiliar. Our own nation was founded through a rebellion against an empire. Our people fought a painful Civil War that extended freedom and dignity to those who were enslaved. And I would not be standing here today unless past generations turned to the moral force of nonviolence as a way to perfect our union - organizing, marching, protesting peacefully together to make real those words that declared our nation: ''We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.''
Those words must guide our response to the change that is transforming the Middle East and North Africa - words which tell us that repression will fail, and that tyrants will fall, and that every man and woman is endowed with certain inalienable rights.
It will not be easy. There's no straight line to progress, and hardship always accompanies a season of hope. But the United States of America was founded on the belief that people should govern themselves. And now we cannot hesitate to stand squarely on the side of those who are reaching for their rights, knowing that their success will bring about a world that is more peaceful, more stable, and more just.
Thank you very much, everybody. (Applause.) Thank you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TERRORISM (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HISTORY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); RELIGION (71%); TALIBAN (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); IRAQ WAR (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (87%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



645 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: A Shaken Agency Looks to the Future: Emerging Economies See a Chance To Break a European Monopoly

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN and GRAHAM BOWLEY; Katrin Bennhold, Keith Bradsher and Edward Wyatt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
European officials moved quickly to assert their claim over the leadership of the International Monetary Fund on Thursday, suggesting a serious challenge is being mounted by emerging economic powers like China and India that believe the time has come to break Europe's historic grip on the post.
The abrupt resignation of Dominique Strauss-Kahn late Wednesday night has brought tensions long simmering beneath the surface at the powerful organization to a boil.
Nations like Brazil want a more open process that does not see the top position at the I.M.F. granted to a European, as has been the convention since the fund was founded 65 years ago. They hope instead to put forth a credible candidate from the emerging world to reflect its growing economic clout. 
''We must establish meritocracy, so that the person leading the I.M.F. is selected for their merits and not for being European,'' Guido Mantega, Brazil's finance minister, said late Wednesday
China, too, publicly weighed in on the debate, suggesting that achieving a consensus on the successor to Mr. Strauss-Kahn may take several months. ''In principle, we believe that emerging and developing countries should have representation at senior levels,'' a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman said Thursday, the second such statement in two days.
Politicians from across Europe closed ranks, appearing to coalesce behind Christine Lagarde, France's finance minister, as their preferred candidate to succeed Mr. Strauss-Kahn, who is also French.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany publicly called for a European to assume the job, arguing that the Continent's festering economic problems required a European to stay in place. German media reported that she favored Ms. Lagarde.
''Of course, developing nations are within their rights in the medium term to occupy the post of either I.M.F. head or World Bank chief,'' Mrs. Merkel said, according to news reports. ''But I think that in the current situation, with serious problems with the euro and the I.M.F. strongly involved, there is a lot in favor of a European candidate being put forward.''
In Washington, the I.M.F. said the 24-member executive board had begun discussions about the selection process for the new managing director. The board is scheduled to hold its regular weekly meeting on Friday when the timetable for succession, like deadlines for nominations, may be discussed. Countries will nominate their candidates, and then the board will vote, with large financial contributors like the United States and Japan getting a bigger share of voting rights. The entire process could take months, as it has in the past.
But the real negotiations and horse-trading have already shifted back to national capitals; one issue being discussed is whether a European would serve out the remaining year and a half of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's term, before handing over to a candidate from the emerging nations, or, more likely, whether a new head should be elected to serve a full five-year term.
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France spoke with Mrs. Merkel by phone Wednesday and will speak with Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain on Friday about succession, said an official in Mr. Sarkozy's office who spoke on condition of anonymity. President Obama and other heads of the Group of 8 industrial powers will also discuss the matter when they meet in Deauville, France, next week, the official said.
Support from the United States is crucial. At 16 percent, it has the single biggest voting share on the fund's board. Together, the United States and numerous European countries control more than 50 percent of the voting shares.
On Thursday, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the United States wanted a ''prompt succession,'' perhaps suggesting the United States is interested in promoting a quick changeover that leaves a European in charge and does not disturb the status quo.
But he said the United States also wanted to see an ''open process,'' stopping short of endorsing Europe's claim. The United States faces a sensitive task over the next few months, risking confrontation if it backs a European candidate, leaving room for countries with developing economies to come up with a credible candidate of their own.
''We haven't taken a position on any candidate,'' Lael Brainard, the Treasury under secretary for international affairs, said in a speech in Washington. ''What is important at this juncture is that we move quickly to an open process.''
John Lipsky, acting managing director of the International Monetary Fund, told reporters in Washington on Thursday that the fund had continued to function effectively this week despite the turmoil that followed the arrest of its managing director.
''To think that the I.M.F. depends on one person is an illusion,'' Mr. Lipsky said. ''We can see already this week that the fund has been able to move forward in important areas,'' including working on policies in Ireland, Greece, Egypt and Portugal.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's resignation comes at a tricky time for the United States, which by convention has taken the No. 2 job at the fund while occupying the most senior position at the World Bank.
The presidency of the World Bank comes up for election next year. Mr. Lipsky had already announced he planned to leave the I.M.F. in August.
Analysts say the United States wants to ensure that an American remains at the top of the World Bank and in the deputy position at the fund -- the name of David Lipton, currently senior director for international economics in the White House, has been floated -- but question whether it can credibly argue for a switch of the top job to the emerging world and still keep its claim on these positions.
Currently, several names are in the frame from emerging-market economics. But the effort may be hampered if the countries fail to put forward a single strong candidate.
The leading candidate from the emerging world, many analysts suggest, may be Kemal Dervis, a former finance minister of Turkey. Mr. Dervis is credited with rescuing the Turkish economy after it was hit by a devastating financial crisis in 2001. Before that, Mr. Dervis worked at the World Bank for 24 years.
Other possible candidates include Arminio Fraga Neto, former governor of the central bank of Brazil; Tharman Shanmugaratnam, finance minister of Singapore; Agustin Carstens, governor of the central bank of Mexico; and Montek Singh Ahluwalia, deputy chairman of India's planning commission.
China's role will also be important. According to Eswar S. Prasad, a professor at Cornell and a 17-year veteran of the fund, China might actually benefit if no single candidate comes forward from the emerging world. Instead, he suggested, once a European is in place as managing director, China could push for a more formal role -- perhaps deputy managing director, for its highest-ranking official, Zhu Min, now special adviser to the managing director.
The whole process, however, could take three or four months. When Mr. Strauss-Kahn, for example, was proposed in 2007, the selection took more than two months as he flew around the world garnering support and votes, even after the United States said it would support a prominent European for the post. He was formally nominated by Germany, and the board settled on him by consensus.
Ms. Lagarde is one of Europe's most highly regarded economic officials. The former head of the Chicago-based law firm Baker & McKenzie, she is as connected and as respected in Washington and on Wall Street as in Europe.
One of the most difficult issues facing the I.M.F. these days lies in what to do about China's major intervention in currency markets to slow the rise of the renminbi. Beijing's currency policy has helped make Chinese exports more competitive, but it has angered countries that have large trade deficits with China or that have been losing foreign markets to China -- notably the United States, Southern Europe, India and Southeast Asia.
As France's finance minister, Ms. Lagarde has been reluctant to question Chinese policies. During a visit to Beijing and Hong Kong in October 2009 -- at a time when China was not allowing the renminbi to rise against the dollar -- she said at two news conferences that the value of the renminbi was a question of China's sovereignty, and declined to offer any criticism of China. But in the same breath, she called for the United States to maintain the value of the dollar.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister who is a candidate to head the International Monetary Fund, misstated the length of time she lived in the United States. It was six years, from 1999 to 2005; not 25 years, though she was with the Chicago-based law firm Baker & McKenzie for nearly 25 years. The error was repeated in an article on Friday about an international dispute over whether to install a leader from Europe or an emerging-market nation as head of the fund.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Possible candidates to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn as managing director of the International Monetary Fund include, from left, Christine Lagarde of France, Tharman Shanmugaratnam of Singapore, Arminio Fraga Neto of Brazil, and Montek Singh Ahluwalia of India. (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (78%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); CHINA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); INDIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



646 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: For U.S., Matching Moral and Financial Support for Revolts Proves Difficult

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After six months of struggle inside the White House to reconcile American interests in the Arab uprisings with American values, President Obama on Thursday sought to portray the region's revolt in the historical tradition of the American Revolution and the civil rights movement.
But even as Mr. Obama appealed for the people of the region to embrace self-determination as the route to peace and prosperity, he left open how far the United States could go in matching its enthusiasm with concrete financial support for a sustained transformation, in a region where repression has often been the handmaiden of poverty and seething frustration. 
The model, the president suggested at one point, was the integration of Eastern Europe into the West after the fall of Communism, urging Congress to create ''enterprise funds'' to invest in Tunisia and Egypt, and presumably in other places where dictators have yet to fall. ''Successful democratic transitions depend upon an expansion of growth and broad-based prosperity,'' he said.
But this is not 1989. In global politics, as in life, timing is everything. The Middle Eastern and North African states now in various stages of upheaval have come to democracy in an era of painfully tight budgets in the United States and economic crisis in Europe.
What Egypt was offered in the president's speech -- $1 billion in debt relief over several years and another $1 billion in loans to finance infrastructure improvements -- is hardly a Marshall Plan, as the Egyptians have made clear in private discussions with Washington. ''The reality is that there just isn't much money around for this project,'' one of Mr. Obama's top officials acknowledged after his speech.
''This is obviously a very small amount,'' Steven A. Cook , a senior fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, said after Mr. Obama's speech. Egypt, he noted, has external debt in excess of $30 billion, and an economy in freefall. ''But it's what the political freight these days will bear,'' he said.
The problem becomes more complex because there are no institutions in the Arab world akin to the European Union. The prospect of joining the European bloc became the beacon that drove many of the former Soviet states to adopt the institutions of democratic capitalism. For many, even success stories like Poland, it took years. But usually the goal of becoming integrated with the West ended all political debates about how to proceed.
So Mr. Obama and other Western leaders, when they meet in France next week, will be racing to invent something.
The drive now is to persuade the Saudis and other oil-rich states to underwrite the transitions to democracy. It is not an easy sell in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, where King Abdullah was outraged by Mr. Obama's abandonment of President Hosni Mubarak. (He told Mr. Obama that he needed to support the Egyptian leader even if the protesters in Tahrir Square were fired upon.) Saudi Arabia's drive now is to stop the threat to established governments -- even as Mr. Obama seeks partners in helping integrate a new Egypt into the world economy.
Mr. Obama's economic team, however, believes there is no need for a Marshall Plan for Egypt. ''It's a misdeveloped economy, not a destroyed one the way Europe was after World War II,'' said one of the president's top economic aides. ''They need to privatize, to open the economy to trade, to create jobs.''
The relief Mr. Obama described is largely symbolic, he conceded, an effort to show that the United States was willing to contribute to economic change just as it was willing in the past to help support Mr. Mubarak.
Mr. Obama worded his speech carefully to make it clear that economic support was dependent on letting democracy flourish -- code words for a warning that if the Muslim Brotherhood became the dominant force in the country, economic cooperation could halt. But this is more than just the usual economic sticks and carrots.
Six months after a Tunisian street peddler named Mohamed Bouazizi immolated himself in protest, starting the cycle of uprisings and revolution, the president was understandably eager to fill any vacuum forming in the region.
With the fate of Libya, Syria and Yemen still in play, his aides knew he had to align himself more forcefully with the voices for change, and to equate their revolution with America's, 235 years ago.
He did, declaring: ''The United States of America was founded on the belief that people should govern themselves. Now, we cannot hesitate to stand squarely on the side of those who are reaching for their rights, knowing that their success will bring about a world that is more peaceful, more stable and more just.''
Such an embrace of traditional American values carried deliberate echoes of Mr. Obama's 2009 speech in Cairo, his plaintive call for a restart between the Muslim world and the United States. But back then, it was a theoretical issue.
Now, Mr. Obama has hard choices to make. He must find a way to support the protesters in Bahrain without overthrowing the government that houses the Navy's Fifth Fleet. He must find a way to keep Saudi Arabia in the American camp, while urging reforms that some in the Saudi royal family view as assisted suicide. And mostly, he must create beacons for democratizing states -- hard enough in normal times, and far harder in an age of austerity.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrons at a cafe in Cairo on Thursday as President Obama spoke. About 10 minutes into the speech, the channel was changed to one showing an action movie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED OU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EGYPT (94%); EUROPE (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); AFRICA (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



647 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Told to Justify Rate Increases Over 10 Percent

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Alarmed at soaring premiums and profits in the health insurance industry, the Obama administration demanded on Thursday that insurers justify proposed rate increases of more than 10 percent, starting in September.
Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, issued a final rule establishing procedures for federal and state insurance experts to scrutinize premiums. Insurers, she said, will have to justify rate increases in an environment in which they are doing well financially, with profits exceeding the expectations of many Wall Street analysts.
''Health insurance companies have recently reported some of their highest profits in years and are holding record reserves,'' Ms. Sebelius said. ''Insurers are seeing lower medical costs as people put off care and treatment in a recovering economy, but many insurance companies continue to raise their rates. Often, these increases come without any explanation or justification.'' 
Federal health officials proposed the 10 percent threshold in December. The insurance industry criticized it as an arbitrary test that could brand a majority of rate increases as presumptively unreasonable. But the administration rejected the criticism and insisted on the 10 percent standard in the final rule, issued Thursday.
Starting in September 2012, the federal government will set a separate threshold for each state, reflecting trends in insurance and health care costs.
In some states like New Hampshire, groups of more than 20 workers have experienced premium increases of around 20 percent this year, while smaller groups have seen increases of 40 percent or more. At the same time, insurance agents say, coverage is shrinking as deductibles have increased and insurers limit the choice of hospitals.
To ensure that ''consumers get value for their dollars,'' the new health care law required annual reviews of ''unreasonable increases in premiums.''
Under the new rule, federal and state officials will review rates in the individual and small-group insurance markets. In effect, the administration said, large employers can take care of themselves, as they are more sophisticated purchasers and have more leverage in negotiating with insurers.
Federal officials acknowledged that they did not have the authority to block rates that were found to be unjustified. But they said many states had such authority, and the federal government is providing $250 million to states to strengthen their capacity. A small number of states, opposed to the federal health care law, have turned down the money.
The new rule says a rate increase is unreasonable if it is excessive, unjustified or ''unfairly discriminatory.'' An increase is deemed excessive if it is ''unreasonably high in relation to the benefits provided.''
Consumer advocates generally welcomed the rule. ''The days of insurance companies running roughshod over consumers and jacking up rates whenever they want are over,'' said Ethan S. Rome, executive director of Health Care for America Now, a coalition that includes labor unions and civil rights groups.
Insurers said the rule did nothing to address the underlying costs of health care, which they described as the main factor driving up premiums.
''If we believe health care costs are crushing the economy, we ought to have a debate about how to bring costs under control,'' said Karen M. Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group. ''Focusing on premiums diverts attention from that debate.''
In many cases, Ms. Ignagni said, rate increases of more than 10 percent may be justified by rising health costs and the tendency of younger, healthier people to drop coverage, forcing up costs for other policyholders.
States will have the primary responsibility for reviewing rate increases. ''But if a state does not have the authority or the resources to conduct a review, our department will step in,'' said Ms. Sebelius, a former state insurance commissioner in Kansas.
Under the rule, as part of an effective rate review program, states must have ''a mechanism for receiving public comments'' on proposed rate increases.
Elizabeth P. Sammis, the acting insurance commissioner in Maryland, said this would be a big change. In many cases, she said, consumers learn of premium increases when they receive notices in the mail, and then they call the commissioner's office to ask, ''Why are rates going up?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, issued a rule Thursday on procedures for reviews of premiums. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (96%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); TRENDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); CONSUMER LAW (68%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



648 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Many in Arab World Say Obama's Speech Doesn't Dispel Grievances Against U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Reporting was contributed by Mona El-Naggar from Cairo; Neil MacFarquhar from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Anthony Shadid from Beirut, Lebanon; and Kareem Fahim from Benghazi, Libya.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- President Obama may have hoped that his embrace of the democracy movement sweeping the Arab world might revive the warmth his name evoked after his speech to the Muslim world two years ago. But across the region, many said his soaring words and financial pledges did little to undo their disappointment at his apparent equivocation during the early days of the Arab revolt.
''Everybody still has it in the back of their minds how America flip-flopped in their position toward these Arab revolutions,'' said Amr Jarrad, 28, a banker in Amman, Jordan, recalling when the White House at first appeared to stand by its ally, Hosni Mubarak, during the Egyptian uprising. ''If you were so good in supporting autocratic regime, why can't you be so good in telling them to leave?'' 
From here at the heart of the Arab Spring to its current battlefronts in Damascus; Syria; and Benghazi, Libya, many said the speech had failed to dispel the legacy of resentment from America's support for Arab autocrats, its invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan and its alliance with Israel. Many said Mr. Obama seemed most willing to support democratic revolts after the fact.
''They wait to see who wins and then support them,'' said Ahmed Maher, 30, a civil engineer and an architect of the Egyptian uprising as coordinator of the liberal April 6 Youth Movement.
Though some applauded Mr. Obama's criticism of America's allies in Yemen and Bahrain for their crackdowns on peaceful protesters, many noted the conspicuous omission of Saudi Arabia, another ally of the United States that is a conservative force throughout the region.
Mr. Obama acknowledged what he saw as a credible Bahraini fear that Iran might have worked from abroad to stir up the unrest, but he failed to mention that Saudi Arabia had intervened by sending troops to help crush the revolt.
''His message is clear,'' said Muhsen Awajy, a dissident Islamist lawyer in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. ''Do the job, and when you finish -- when you have paid the price -- we as Americans are ready to support our interests in a new phase.'' He added, ''It is a great country with great values, and he should translate that into timely intervention.''
Even in Syria, where Mr. Obama has imposed new sanctions on President Bashar al-Assad and urged him to accept reform or ''get out of the way,'' some activists were not ready to trust an American president. ''We've had long experience with American policy in the region, and we don't trust Obama's call for change in Syria,'' said Abdel Majid Manjouni, leader of the opposition Socialist Democratic Arab Union Party in Aleppo, Syria's second-largest city.
Some close observers approved Mr. Obama's explicit invocation, for the first time, of Israel's 1967 borders as the starting place for talks with the Palestinians. But since those boundaries have long been the presumed baseline for negotiations, many in the Arab world were unimpressed. Instead, they noted that he did not call for Israel to stop building new settlements in Palestinian territory.
Egyptians thanked Mr. Obama for his pledge of $1 billion in debt forgiveness. But many saw it as an act of atonement for past support of Arab dictators, and they called it paltry in comparison to the many billions given as military aid to the Mr. Mubarak's government or spent on fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Others said Mr. Obama's talk of support from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund was likely to remind Egyptians of the economic liberalization under Mr. Mubarak's government -- led by his reviled son Gamal, a banker -- that enriched only an elite.
''The Egyptian experience with both these institutions is totally negative because the so-called structural economic adjustment that had been done only made the rich richer and the poor poorer,'' said Hassan Nafaa, a political scientist at Cairo University who attended the address two years ago.
Still, at least a few said they discerned a ''new strategy'' from Washington. ''We felt that for the first time that he was talking to us and not to the leaders as he did before,'' said Mona Makram-Ebeid, a professor at American University in Cairo. ''This time he put his hands on the real problems that are affecting the different countries,'' she said, applauding his talk of tracking down the money stolen by ousted dictators and combating corruption.
Salem Sharaa, sitting with his 4-year-old son at a cafe in Benghazi, said he was pleased that Mr. Obama had discussed the violent Libyan conflict as part of the broader Arab uprising along with the peaceful movements in Tunisia and Egypt. ''He said the Libyan people would be free,'' said Mr. Sharaa, a former city official. ''The Americans have interfered in other countries. We wish they would do it here.''
Still, many in the region said they were too preoccupied with their own uprisings to pay much attention to words from Washington. It was a sharp contrast to the fascination with President Obama's speech in Cairo two years ago, or the rapt suspense that awaited his every word during the Egyptian revolution.
Even in Libya, where a United States-backed air campaign is raining bombs on the forces loyal to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, residents of Benghazi, a rebel stronghold, lowered the volume on the wall-to-wall coverage on Al Jazeera so they could get on with their haircuts or conversations. One activist in Damascus refused to watch.
''The speech he gave in Cairo evaporated after two weeks; this speech will evaporate in a few minutes,'' said Essam el-Erian, a leading figure in the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. ''And the message it carries to the nations of this region is basically this: Do not wait to get any support from the White House; maintain your efforts and achieve your freedom.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CONSERVATISM (77%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); LIBERALISM (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); YEMEN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



649 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Fall Short as Shoppers Cut Back

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Sears Holdings, the department store chain, swung to a first-quarter loss as shoppers cut back on spending.
The net loss was $170 million, or $1.58 a share, Sears said in a statement Thursday. That compared with a $16 million profit a year earlier. 
Separately, Gap, the apparel chain, cut its full-year profit forecast by one-fourth as costs rose faster than expected.
Sales at Sears sank about 3 percent to $9.7 billion. Sears faces increasing competition from other department stores and discount chains. Target, which reported first-quarter results on Wednesday, said shoppers were staying cautious about spending.
''Our first quarter was adversely impacted by unfavorable weather, economic pressures facing our customers, and comparisons to last year's government-sponsored stimulus program relating to the purchase of appliances,'' Louis J. D'Ambrosio, Sears's chief executive, said in the statement. ''However, we also fell short on executing with excellence.''
Shares of Sears fell $1.99, or 2.6 percent, to $73.86.
Sears brought in Mr. D'Ambrosio in February after a three-year search for a chief. He told shareholders at the company's annual meeting this month that Sears would expand services and technology to increase sales and understand customers better. The company also hired a new head of apparel, long a struggling unit, earlier this year.
Sales at stores open at least a year fell 5.2 percent at domestic Sears stores and 1.6 percent at its Kmart chain last quarter, with appliance, clothing and consumer electronics sales driving the decline.
Gap, meanwhile, said its fiscal 2011 profit would be $1.40 to $1.50 a share. Gap had previously forecast a maximum of $1.93 a share.
Expenses per unit will rise 20 percent in the second half, outweighing price increases, Gap said. The apparel industry is facing cost inflation for the first time in two decades because of surging cotton prices and increased pay for workers who make clothes in China and other parts of Asia. Retailers have said they plan to raise prices to counter the higher costs.
First-quarter net income fell 23 percent to $233 million, or 40 cents a share, in the period ended April 30, from $302 million, or 45 cents, a year earlier. Analysts projected 39 cents, the average of 28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Same-store sales fell 3 percent in the first quarter at the chain's Gap brand.
Gap has closed underperforming stores and shrunk other locations in the United States. The retailer is now looking overseas for sales growth by expanding into new regions in the past year, including China and Italy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gap, the apparel chain, cut its full-year profit forecast by one-fourth as costs rose faster than expected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); CLOSINGS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (64%)

COMPANY: SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (90%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (90%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%)

PERSON: LOUIS J D'AMBROSIO (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



650 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Peace and Change: President Obama said many right things about the Arab Spring, but he can't stop there

 BODY:
We have been waiting for President Obama to lay out his vision of the promises and challenges of the upheaval in the Arab world. His speech on Thursday did not go far enough -- there was no game-changing proposal on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict -- but he did promise strong support to those yearning for freedom and goaded American allies, including Israel, to take the political risks that are essential for peaceful change and the only way to build a lasting peace.
His strong words about democracy -- including references to the ''inalienable rights'' of all people -- were inspiring but balanced with realpolitik. While acknowledging that Bahrain, home of the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet, is an important ally, he criticized the monarchy for using ''mass arrests and brute force'' against political opponents. 
The two big questions now are: How quickly will Washington deliver promised economic support to the new governments in Egypt and Tunisia? And how much harder is Mr. Obama willing to push Israel and the Palestinians to start serious peace negotiations?
There was much hand-wringing in Israel over the president's call for a two-state solution based on ''the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps.'' The language was new, but it was not a major change in American policy. It must not become another excuse for inaction.
When Mr. Obama meets with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Friday, he needs to be even blunter about how a continued stalemate is not in Israel's interest and will only feed extremism.
Mr. Obama raised high expectations in 2009 when he promised a ''new beginning'' with the Arab world. That ardor cooled as Middle East peace talks stalled, and Mr. Obama stuck too long with Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. On Thursday, he correctly identified the source of the region's unrest -- ''power has been concentrated in the hands of the few'' -- and he went on to say that ''societies held together by fear and repression may offer the illusion of stability for a time,'' but will eventually tear asunder.
The success of the Arab Spring depends in large part on what happens in Egypt, the largest Arab state, and Tunisia, where the uprisings started. Political reforms are essential, but so are jobs. Mr. Obama promised both countries desperately needed economic help -- $2 billion to Egypt alone. He and other leaders have to work hard to fulfill promises of expanded trade and investment.
The administration is finally getting tougher with Syria. On Wednesday, it imposed sanctions on President Bashar al-Assad and six others. In his speech, Mr. Obama still offered the Syrian leader a choice when it comes to reform: ''He can lead that transition, or get out of the way.'' Nobody thinks Mr. Assad can produce reform even if he wants to. But insisting that he leave power isn't realistic, although continued pressure could change that.
We share Mr. Obama's frustration over the stalled peace process -- and his administration's failed efforts to get a deal. Those frustrations are only going to get worse. When Mr. Netanyahu addresses Congress next week, he will likely repeat all of the reasons why Israel cannot make the necessary concessions. In September, President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority -- who appears to have given up on negotiations -- is expected to ask the United Nations General Assembly to recognize a Palestinian state.
Mr. Obama was right to warn the Palestinians that such symbolic actions ''won't create an independent state.'' But the vote would also isolate Israel and the United States. Washington and its allies need to put a map on the table and challenge both sides to resume negotiations. That is the best chance for breaking the stalemate and the best chance for peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (85%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (72%); NAVIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (97%); EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SYRIA (92%); BAHRAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



651 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Development Coalition Looks to Aid North Africa

BYLINE: By JACK EWING; Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, long focused on promoting democracy in Central Europe and the former Soviet Union through loans to business, is likely to extend its mandate to North Africa as part of a push by Europe and the United States to help countries in the region.
The bank, based in London and financed by 61 nations including the United States, will begin amending its bylaws on Saturday to allow expansion across the Mediterranean, probably beginning with Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia. The bank's board of governors is holding its annual meeting on Friday and Saturday in Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan. 
The expansion of the bank's operations follows a call in April by Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, for institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to do more to support a transition to democracy in the Middle East.
''The World Bank and other multilateral development banks will be essential, just as they were in support of Eastern and Central Europe's transition two decades ago,'' Mr. Geithner said on April 16. President Obama pledged on Thursday to provide debt relief and aid to the region in a speech on the Middle East delivered in Washington.
Marisa Lago, an assistant Treasury secretary and a member of the bank's board of governors, said the development bank's expertise in Eastern Europe could be useful in North Africa.
''In both instances authoritarian political systems limited the freedoms of the citizens of these countries,'' Ms. Lago said in Astana, according to the text of her remarks. ''And in both instances the economic systems were dominated by cronyism and state control that limited the regions' economic potential.''
On Wednesday, Germany officially endorsed deploying the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the Middle East. Jorg Asmussen, deputy finance minister of Germany, said a condition for aid would be that countries make ''a firm commitment to the core principles of democracy, political pluralism and the market economy.''
But a coalition of 28 nongovernmental organizations and the Central and Eastern Europe Bankwatch Network, a regional group that is based in Prague and monitors international financial organizations, has urged the bank's shareholders not to approve the expansion.
It is premature to make commitments for financing from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Mediterranean region ''when it is by no means clear what kind of governments will follow the recently overthrown regimes,'' the coalition said. It also criticized the bank's record in helping to establish democracy in Eastern and Central Europe.
The United States is the largest shareholder in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was founded in 1991 to help countries trying to shift to market from planned economies. The bank typically supports small and midsize businesses and infrastructure projects by local governments like water and sewage systems.
Recent loans include $105 million to Metro Group, a large German retailer, to expand operations in Kazakhstan; and 3.7 million euros, or $5.3 million to Industrial Mecano, a maker of packaging for food and beverages in Romania. The bank valued its business volume in 2010 at 9 billion euros, $12.83 billion. The bank also helped support banks in Eastern Europe during the financial crisis, and has helped finance the continuing cleanup in Ukraine at the site of the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster.
It has steadily expanded its territory, and operates as far east as Mongolia.
A person with knowledge of the plans, who was not authorized to speak publicly about them, said the bank would not need to raise more capital to expand into North Africa. The new loans there would not come at the expense of other countries the bank serves, the person said.
Whether other countries like Libya are added depends on political developments, the person said. Egypt is already a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development shareholder and asked to be considered for loans last year, before popular demonstrations toppled Hosni Mubarak as president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POLITICS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (68%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (94%); EUROPE (94%); AFRICA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GERMANY (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); EGYPT (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011



652 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Sold for $16.6 Million; 
City Room

BYLINE: SARAH KERSHAW


HIGHLIGHT: A four-bedroom, five-and-a-half-bath duplex has 1,690 square feet of outdoor space, and it comes with a separate staff studio.45

 BODY:
After almost three years on the market, a sprawling penthouse at One Jackson Square in the West Village with a private swimming pool on its roof terrace sold on Monday for $16.6 million, according to the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group, which represented the owners. The penthouse sale was the priciest of the week, according to transactions posted on Streeteasy.com.
The four-bedroom, five-and-a-half-bath condominium, a 5,574-square-foot duplex with an additional 1,690 square feet of outdoor space, comes with a staff studio on the fifth floor of the building. It was first listed in 2008 for $21.75 million. The last asking price on the unit, owned by the building's developers, Hines and RFR Holding, was $18.95 million. James Lansill, a senior managing director of the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group, declined to identify the buyer. Big Ticket includes sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday.
The Big Ticket item in the Big Deal column last Sunday misstated the sale price of a penthouse at One Jackson Square. It was $16.6 million, not $16.5 mil- lion. The error was repeated in the headline.

        
Big Deal | Buy One, Get One (Sort Of)
        
Big Deal | Sale of Duke Mansion Brings a Lawsuit
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $15,150,000
        
Big Deal | Storied Sloane Mansion on the Auction Block
        
Big Deal | Haute Couture Pied-a-Terre

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); AUCTIONS (74%) Big Deal; One Jackson Square; real estate; West Village; Housing and Real Estate; West Village (NYC); Housing & Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%) West Village (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



653 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Group Unleashes Early Ad Against Romney; 
The Caucus

BYLINE: JIM RUTENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: A group aligned with the Democrats has launched an early ad against Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich.

 BODY:
8:59 a.m. | Updated The new political groupco-founded last month by two former aides to President Obama is unleashing its first television broadside against Republicans Friday, attacking former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts on health care and needling former House Speaker Newt Gingrich in the process.
Officials with the group, Priorities USA Action, said that the advertisement was meant to coincide with Mr. Romney's planned campaign-style visitto South Carolina this weekend, and that it will run on local stations there. Bill Burton, a co-founder of the group and a former White House deputy press secretary for Mr. Obama, declined to say how much the group was spending on the spot but said, "If you're in South Carolina while Mitt Romney is in South Carolina and you watch the news, you're going to see this ad."
The spot focuses on Mr. Gingrich's suggestion on "Meet the Press'' on Sunday that the Medicare overhaul approved by House Republicans last month represented "radical change,'' which he apologized for this week after receiving stinging conservative brickbats for the statement. Apparently concerned about just such an ad, Mr. Gingrich warned on Fox News Channel, "Any ad which quotes what I said Sunday is a falsehood, and because I have said publicly - those words were inaccurate and unfortunate." 
Reprising comments Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina made this week on CNN - that Mr. Gingrich had cut the plan's prime sponsor, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, "off at the knees'' - an announcer says, "Governor Haley thinks the plan is courageous, and Gingrich shouldn't be cutting conservatives off at the knees."
(Mr. Gingrich on Thursday suggested that he was not referring to Mr. Ryan's plan when he made his comments on "Meet the Press.")
The announcer in the ad continues, "Mitt Romney says he's 'on the same page' as Paul Ryan,'' but, she adds, "With Mitt Romney, you have to wonder: which page is he on today?"
In a statement in April, Mr. Romney did say he and Mr. Ryan were "on the same page" when it came to Medicare. But, speaking to an audience in Ann Arbor, Mich., last week, he said he would present his own plan that would "not be identical but shares objectives" with Mr. Ryan's plan.
On Friday, Mr. Romney's campaign seized on the advertisement as an opportunity to treat the new group as an extension of President Obama's campaign because of its connections to his administration.
"President Obama's first campaign ad is an attack ad," the campaign said in a statement. "President Obama and his team are desperate to change the subject to anything other than jobs and the millions of Americans out of work. With 9.6 percent unemployment in South Carolina, voters are looking for a jobs plan, not a smear campaign."
Mr. Romney took his own conservative incoming for his appearance in Ann Arbor, where he said he would repeal the health care overhaul Mr. Obama signed into law last year, but he also defended the health care law he successfully pushed in Massachusetts five years ago with many of the same elements.
Friday's advertisement is clearly seeking to exploit those critiques for maximum effect. The attack comes extraordinarily early for the presidential campaign, given that Mr. Romney has not yet formally declared that he is a presidential candidate, so far only setting up an exploratory committee.
"The man, the moment the place, the characters, it all came together," said Paul Begala, an adviser to Priorities USA. "Any good political player sees defining moments happening and helps to form them."
The spot shows that Priorities USA Action, like the conservative group it is seeking to counter, American Crossroads, will work as something of a roving hit squad. As an independent group, it is unencumbered by the political sensitivities that a candidate has to worry about, and is free to pick its shots as long as it can afford them.
Mr. Burton said, "This is the first of many ads in which we're going to do our best to make sure the American people get a fair sense of where these candidates stand on important issues.'' He added, "You can bet that down the road some of these other candidates are going to get their turn to answer some of these questions.''
Like American Crossroads, Priorities USA Action is set up as a political action committee that can accept unlimited donations, including from corporations and unions, but the group must disclose its donors. Organizers say the group was started with seed money from the producer Jeffrey Katzenberg and the Service Employees International Union. It has a sister organization, Priorities USA, that can keep the identities of its donors secret and can expressly advocate for or against a candidate's election, as long as such activity is not its primary purpose.
Mr. Obama's aides have said they have nothing to do with the group but have not disavowed its formation -- despite Mr. Obama's strong statements against such groups in the past.
An earlier version of this post incorrectly stated that Priorities USA could not expressly advocate for or against a candidate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%) Begala, Paul; Burton, Bill; Gingrich, Newt; Katzenberg, Jeffrey; Romney, Mitt; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Campaign Finance; Political Advertising; American Crossroads; Priorities USA Action; Republican Party; South Carolina; Elections; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: American Crossroads; Priorities USA Action; Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); PAUL RYAN (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (73%); NIKKI HALEY (57%) Begala, Paul; Burton, Bill; Gingrich, Newt; Katzenberg, Jeffrey; Romney, Mitt; Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



654 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Reviewing the Mazda 2

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A spirited subcompact from the Japanese automaker lets its thrill-seeking nature dominate its personality, but at the expense of fuel economy.

 BODY:
In Sunday's Automobiles section, Jonathan Schultz drives the Mazda 2, a spry subcompact that has been available outside of the United States since 2007, but that only arrived at American dealerships late last year.
Having spent back-to-back weekends with the Mazda and the Ford Fiesta, another recent arrival to the United States that shares the 2's chassis, Mr. Schultz was compelled to compare the cars.Some in the automotive press have described these two as fraternal twins, yet after back-to-back weekends with the world-beating pair, I'd hesitate even to call them kissing cousins.
For starters, the Ford feels considerably more ponderous than the spry Mazda, which has 200 fewer pounds to push around. And while weight offers a readily quantifiable difference between these two, the greater divergences are more philosophical.The 2, he writes, is an eager city car that compensates for its unremarkable fuel economy with outsize driving enjoyment.The chassis remained composed over choppy cobblestones along the South Brooklyn waterfront, and the 1.5-liter 4-cylinder, which makes just 100 horsepower, constantly punched above its weight, pushing the 2 into pockets of fleet-moving street and highway traffic with surprising ease.Read the whole review, check out the slide show and share your thoughts about the 2 in the comments section below.

        
Ford Graffiti Wall an Unlikely Diversion at Detroit Auto Show
        
Next Mazda 2 Will Have New Fuel-Economy Technology
        
Mini to Take On Ford Fiesta in World Rally
        
G.M., Ford and Kia Lead Nominees for Car of the Year
        
New York Auto Show: 2011 Mazda 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%) Ford Fiesta; Mazda 2; Automobiles; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact and Microcars); Mazda Motor Corp; Mazda Motor Corp|MZDAF|other-OTC; New Cars

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MAZDA MOTOR CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Mazda Motor Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 7261 (TSE) (92%) Mazda Motor Corp; MZDAF; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



655 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: A.F.L.-C.I.O. President Denounces Republicans and Warns Democrats


HIGHLIGHT: Richard Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., denounced Republicans over efforts to cut Medicare and warned Democrats not to take organized labor for granted on Election Day.

 BODY:
In what was advertised as a major policy address, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Richard Trumka, denounced Republicans on Friday over their efforts to cut Medicare spending and curb collective bargaining while promising -- in a warning to Democrats - that organized labor would show greater independence in politics.
"Our role is not to build the power of a political party or a candidate," he said in a clear warning to Democrats who have not gone to bat for labor. "It is to improve the lives of working families and strengthen our country. Mr. Trumka whose labor federation has traditionally been one of the most important pillars of the Democratic Party, urged -- even warned -- Democrats to do more to battle what he described as the Republican wrecking ball.
"It doesn't matter if candidates and parties are controlling the wrecking ball or simply standing aside - the outcome is the same either way," he said. "If leaders aren't blocking the wrecking ball and advancing working families' interests, working people will not support them. This is where our focus will be - now, in 2012 and beyond."
Every few years, union leaders say they are going to take a more independent stance in politics and not allow the Democrats to be taken for granted. But at election time, labor usually throws its support behind Democrats, fearing that to do otherwise would help elect Republicans who they fear would go on the offensive against unions and workers' interests. 
"The federal budget embraced by House Republicans," Mr. Trumka said, "cuts $4.3 trillion in spending, but gives out $4.2 trillion in tax cuts that disproportionately benefit wealthy individuals and corporations."
"Florida is gutting aid for jobless workers and using the money saved to cut already-low business taxes. At the end of the day, our governments will be in no better fiscal shape than when we started - they are just being used as a pass-through to enrich the already rich - at a time when inequality stands at historic levels." 
Mr. Trumka also warned against what he said was an undemocratic trend designed to help Republicans and hurt Democrats. 
"In state after state," he said. "politicians are attacking voting rights by imposing ID requirements, shortening early voting periods, blocking young people from voting because they're too 'liberal' and even levying criminal penalties and fines for breaking arbitrary rules in the voter registration process."
That, he said, will make it harder for people to vote - "especially the least privileged among us." He said that in Wisconsin, where the Republican-controlled Legislature has passed a bill requiring state-issued photo IDs to vote, 23 percent of elderly residents do not have such ID's, nor do 59 percent of Hispanic women, 55 percent of all African-American men, and 78 percent of those African-American men who are 18 to 24 years old. 
Mr. Trumka warned that the United States was at a watershed moment where some politicians were pushing to give more power to the rich and to undercut unions and the voice of workers - in both the workplace as well as in politics. 
"These events," he said, "signal a new and dangerous phase of a concerted effort to change the very nature of America - to turn this into an 'I've got mine' nation and replace the land of liberty and justice for all with the land of the war of all against all."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); TAX LAW (63%); AGING (50%) The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



656 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: Thinktanks Gone Wild: On the Economics of Mass Transit and the Value of Common Sense

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: A closer look at a new report on public transportation from the Brookings Institution.

 BODY:
Let's say there's a public transit line near your house. Your commute from home to work on this line will average about 40 minutes, door-to-door. Are you going to take it, or not?
Obviously, I haven't given you enough information to answer the question. You'll almost certainly take public transit if driving would take 60 minutes instead. And you'll almost certainly avoid it if driving would take 15 minutes. If it is relatively close between the two, it would come down to factors like cost, comfort, and reliability. The point is simply that you have a choice, and questions about the utility of a public transit system only make sense in the context of that choice.
But a new report on public transportation from the venerable Brookings Institution, which is getting a lot of play in local newspapers around the country, fails to make this very basic distinction.
The report caught my eye because it came to some surprising conclusions. It ranked the top 100 U.S. metropolitan areas on the basis of "access to [public] transit and employment." I know that I've become something of a New York partisan since moving here two years ago, but I was pretty sure that New York City was going to rank somewhere near the top of the list, probably along with Washington, D.C. and Chicago.
New York, however, ranked just 13th. Washington ranked 17th. And Chicago ranked 46th -- well behind Los Angeles (24th).
Instead, the top 10 metros according to Brookings were: Honolulu; San Jose, Calif.; Salt Lake City; Tucson, Ariz.; Fresno, Calif.; Denver; Albuquerque; Las Vegas; Provo, Utah and Modesto, Calif.
This seems really strange. I have my issues with the M.T.A. -- I hate the cumbersome routes to the airports, and the unpredictable closures late at night after I've pulled a long evening at The Times office. But it's a pretty good system -- roughly as good in my experience as London (where the Underground closes early and suffers from frequent shutdowns) or Paris (where the Metro, like many things in Paris, is beautiful but slow: trains average only about 12 miles per hour). I could fathom New York being behind Washington -- but it has worse public transit than Tucson and Modesto?
But don't take my word for it: look at how commuters behave. Just one of the metro areas that ranks in the top 10 in the share of commutes made by public transportation, Honolulu, also made Brookings' top 10.
Conversely, just 3 percent of the commutes in Brookings' top 10 cities were made by public transit. Several cities on the Brookings list, like Modesto -- where just 0.8 percent of commutes use public transit -- were well below the urban average.
Is it that 99.2 percent of the people who live in Modesto (Modestonians? Modestites?) just don't realize they have one of the world's best public transit systems just waiting at their doorsteps? Or did four folks sitting in a conference room at the Brookings Institution design a bad study?
O.K, so that's a loaded question. The Brookings study collected some pretty interesting data, and it picked a worthwhile subject. They just asked the wrong question, focusing on access to public transit rather than considering a commuter's choices.
The Brookings rankings are based on two criteria. First, what percentage of a metro area's residents live within three-quarters of a mile of a public transportation stop. And second, what percentage of commutes to work can be made within 90 minutes using public transit.
The first question is pretty straightforward, provided that you know where the routes go. The second one isn't, and requires you to know -- or to make some assumptions -- about where people live relative to where they work. Brookings did some modelling on this, using actual timetables and routing information, and although they made a few choices that I might have made differently, it's valuable data to collect.
The problem is that a study like this is pretty useless if you don't evaluate a commuter's alternatives. Consider Poughkeepsie, N.Y., which ranked dead last in the Brookings study. Poughkeepsie is quite a ways away from New York City, but nevertheless some people choose to commute to the city from there. The trip to Grand Central Station on the Metro-North line is two hours, which is quite a tedious journey. But the same trip by car is one hour and 39 minutes without traffic -- and you're certainly going to encounter some traffic when driving into New York City at rush hour.
So you have to pick your poison, but the Metro-North line is probably the better alternative for at least some Poughkeepsie residents, and its presence improves the welfare of the city. In fact, Poughkeepsie ranks 14th out of 100 metros in the share of commutes made by public transit.
Alternatively, consider Modesto. Let's say that you live on the corner of Rosemore Avenue and Crocker Lane in Modesto, and work at the E&J Gallo Winery, which is the city's largest employer. The commute, by bus, is about 30 minutes. A lot of New Yorkers would kill for a half-hour commute! But the same trip by car is just 8 minutes. I'm not saying that the bus system in Modesto should be demolished -- it's useful to have some alternative for people who can't or won't drive -- but the vast majority of people in Modesto are indifferent (at best) to the presence of the bus system and it probably doesn't merit any more taxpayer dollars than it gets presently.
Ironically, the cities that ranked highly in the Brookings ratings may have done so precisely because they are good cities for drivers. Of the people who took public transit to work in their top 10 cities, 91 percent did so by bus, according to data from the American Community Survey. The thing about buses is that, unless they have special right-of-way (as they do in some cities like Pittsburgh and Seattle), they by definition can't be faster than passenger cars since they follow the same roads, but do so with more stops and with other inconveniences (like walking and waiting time) to the commuter.
Cities which have roads that are relatively free of congestion -- and the midsize cities of the Western United States that top the Brookings list qualify since they were designed with cars in mind -- will provide for fast commutes by bus in an absolute sense. But the routes will nevertheless be slower than they would be by private automobile, and so not very many people will use them. A study that evaluated public transit through the paradigm of access to public transit, like the Brookings study did, would not catch the distinction, but one that instead focused on the choices available to commuters would. You could spend billions of dollars expanding the light rail system in Buffalo and build something completely-state-of-the-art -- but because Buffalo already offers extremely short commute times (because of its population loss), it would be a waste of resources and nobody would use it.
So why draw this relatively obscure study to your attention? There are three reasons.
First, it gets at an important public policy question. I'm a big "fan" of mass transit -- but I also assume that the taxpayer's tolerance for funding new projects is going to be limited, and the funds should be concentrated in areas where driving is a bad alternative and there would be significant improvement in commuter welfare by building new mass transit lines. This would include cities like Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and Los Angeles, which have high average commute times but very little public transit use.
Second, there is significant untapped potential in the Brookings data. They've gone to great lengths to estimate commute times by public transit, which is not an easy thing to do. If they also modeled how long the same trips would take by car, the data would be considerably more useful. Suppose, for example, that they identified a few cities in which public transit were already quite competitive with driving, but relatively few people used the system. That would signal to those cities that they needed to engage in a marketing campaign, which would be extremely cheap relative to establishing new public transit lines. Alternatively, there might be some cities where the routes are right, but service is too infrequent -- if the light rail system stopped once every 5 minutes, instead of once every 20 minutes, it would become a good alternative for a lot more commuters. This too would be a relatively cheap fix -- it's much, much more cost-effective to add additional service on an existing public transit line than to build a new one from scratch.
But the third reason is more general: I want to point out that just because a study uses objective criteria doesn't make it sensible. In fact, studies that try to rank or rate things seem especially susceptible to slapdash, unthoughtful methodology (here is another example: a study which concludes that Gainesville, Fla., is a more gay-friendly city than San Francisco). If you come up with a result that defies common sense -- like Modesto having better public transit than New York City -- then once in a blue moon, you may be on to something: conventional wisdom is fallible. But much, much more often, it's a sign that you've done something wrong, and it's time to reconsider your assumptions before publishing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); CITY LIFE (89%); RANKINGS (87%); CITIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); PROVO, UT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



657 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Big Deal | Haute Couture Pied--Terre

BYLINE: SARAH KERSHAW


HIGHLIGHT: A one-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bath apartment, with a listing price of $6.2 million, in the Apthorp condominium, a Renaissance Revival.

 BODY:
During a telephone interview from Paris, the fashion designer Alber Elbaz seemed to find it a little funny that he was being asked about real estate.
But then, as if thinking out loud, Mr. Elbaz, artistic director of Lanvin, suddenly made a connection between housing and couture.
"Actually," he said, "we create fashion and we create homes for you. When you are out in this dress, this dress just for you, it's your home."
Mr. Elbaz, a darling of the fashion press who has been widely praised for his colorful, minimalist cocktail dresses, is buying his first apartment in New York; on May 4 he signed a contract for a one-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath condominium at the Apthorp on the Upper West Side. The 2,376-square-foot unit was listed for $6.2 million, but Mr. Elbaz declined to say what he was paying for it. 
He came to Manhattan in 1986 from Israel and worked with a series of designers until joining Lanvin in 2001. He had moved to Paris in 1996, but he always kept an apartment in Manhattan, as a renter.
When he was in New York recently, Mr. Elbaz, 49, joined a friend who asked if he would come see her favorite building in the city. They went to the Apthorp, a Renaissance Revival landmark with an ornate limestone facade, a large interior courtyard, elaborate wrought-iron gates and mosaic floors. It was built in 1908, spans the entire block from Broadway to West End Avenue, between 78th and 79th Streets, and was a rental building known for housing celebrities like Nora Ephron and Al Pacino until developers began its troubled conversion four years ago.
Mr. Elbaz contacted a representative from the Apthorp sales team, the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group, who showed him an apartment that he liked. He had seen other places, having decided he wanted to own a pied-a-terre in the city, but there was something "emotional" for him about the Apthorp, he said. As in fashion, beauty in architecture is "an instinct, it's a feeling," Mr. Elbaz said. "It's not a formula. I just went there and there was something about the apartment, the ceilings, the moldings. The whole thing, it was almost majestic."
Mr. Elbaz had heard about some of the Apthorp's problems, a maze of feuds and disputes involving owners, tenants and the developers, as well as developers and the state, which finally approved the condo conversion last year. The recession didn't help, either, as the building struggled to sell, although prices have begun to rise recently. Mr. Elbaz said he had been assured by his lawyer that the investment was sound.
7-Year Roller-Coaster Ride for a Park Avenue House 
In the midst of a flurry of activity at the very high end of the market over the last few weeks comes a contract signing, finally, on 870 Park Avenue, a nearly 12,000-square-foot town house that Benny Shabtai, an Israeli businessman who spent decades leading the watchmaker Raymond Weil's distribution team in the United States, put on the market seven years ago.
The contract signing came after the listing changed hands among three of the city's top-selling brokers, undergoing a series of price changes that took the original $23 million asking price in 2004 to a high of $33 million in 2008, to the last asking price of $24.5 million. Streeteasy.com showed that the contract had been signed on May 13.
The buyer will be getting a four-story mansion - the facade was designed by Robert A. M. Stern - with six bedrooms, six baths, a four-passenger elevator and a 1,150-square-foot office with a separate Park Avenue entrance.
A glimpse of the roller-coaster ride for this house, near 71st Street, shows that it was listed with Brown Harris Stevens for $33 million in 2008, then reduced to $26.75 million. After that it was listed for $19.95 million with the Corcoran Group, which later took the price down to $17.5 million. Finally, last June, Dolly Lenz of Prudential Douglas Elliman took over and listed the place for $24.5 million. As The Real Deal asked in a headline at the time - referring to Paula Del Nunzio of Brown Harris Stevens, Carrie Chiang of Corcoran and Ms. Lenz, "If Carrie and Paula Can't Sell It ... Can Dolly?"
Apparently yes, although Ms. Lenz declined to comment, citing a confidentiality agreement.
Records show Mr. Shabtai paid $8 million for the town house in 2000. In December, while it was listed with Ms. Lenz, Mr. Shabtai sold the property to his wife, Lori, for $10.09 million, the records show, as part of a divorce settlement. Ms. Shabtai, an executive vice president of the Winick Realty Group, did not respond to a request for comment.

        
Big Deal | Price Cuts and Foie Gras
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $13.5 Million
        
Big Deal | Hudson St. Penthouse Back on the Market
        
Big Deal | Top Hamptons Sales Regained Traction
        
Big Deal | Buy One, Get One (Sort Of)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (92%); FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); HAUTE COUTURE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SALES FORCE (68%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); APPROVALS (50%); LAWYERS (50%) Big Deal; real estate; Elbaz, Alber; Housing and Real Estate; Manhattan (NYC); Housing & Economy

PERSON: Elbaz, Alber

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



658 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Fortune Brands Sells Golf Business for $1.23 Billion

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: The conglomerate's three-way split moves forward with the purchase by Fila Korea and the largest private equity firm in South Korea.

 BODY:
Fortune Brands said on Friday that it had agreed to sell its golf business to a group led by the owner of the Fila sports brand for $1.23 billion in cash. 
The sale of the business, which includes the Titleist and Footjoy brands, is the first big step toward a planned breakup of Fortune Brands, long an unusual conglomerate with a big spirits portfolio and home and hardware business, in addition to golf products. 
The buyers are led by Fila Korea and Mirae Asset Private Equity, the largest private equity firm in South Korea. The group also includes the National Pension Service of Korea and Korea Development Bank. The pension fund, , the fourth-largest in the world, has been an active investor overseas, buying office real estate in Europe and participating in the 
Fortune Brands said it expected to net $1.1 billion after taxes and expenses.
The golf business accounted for nearly a fifth of Fortune Brands' total revenue. Nearly half of the $1.2 billion in net sales for the company's golf products came in markets outside the United States. The business had operating income of $89 million in 2010. 
Several analysts said on Friday that the price was reasonable. Analysts at Jefferies & Company wrote in a note that the price represents 9.4 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda -- just below the 9.7 times multiple they valued golf businesses broadly. In comparison, Callaway Golf has a multiple of 11.4, according to Capital IQ data.
In December, Fortune Brands announced that it would spin off or sell the golf business and spin off the home and hardware business, which includes brands like Moen faucets, to its shareholders. 
While the company said that the plan had been under discussion for four years, it came not long after the activist investor William A. Ackman disclosed in October that his firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, had taken a 10.9 percent stake, becoming Fortune's biggest shareholder. 
Following the split, Fortune Brands will be a liquor company, with brands like Jim Beam, Canadian Club, Courvoisier, Maker's Mark and Laphroaig. On Friday, the company said it expected to complete the breakup by early in the fourth quarter.
Morgan Stanley ran the auction for the golf business, Acushnet. "The sale process for Acushnet generated broad interest from a range of prospective buyers," said Bruce Carbonari, the chief executive of Fortune Brands. Callaway and Blackstone Group had banded together to submit a bid, Reuters reported last month.
"The proceeds from this sale will strengthen Fortune Brands' balance sheet and support strong capital structures for both Beam and Fortune Brands Home & Security," Mr. Carbonari said.
The Acushnet management team, led by Wally Uihlein, will remain. 
Fila, which makes sports and leisure apparel and footwear, was founded by the Fila brothers in 1911. Fila Korea bought the global Fila brand from Cerberus Capital Management in 2007 for a reported $480 million. 
In addition to Morgan Stanley, Fortune Brands was advised by Centerview Partners and the law firm of Chadbourne & Parke. 

        
 Wall Street Is Hiring in Anticipation of Recovery
        
Boutiques Grab M&A Market Share From Big Firms

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOLF (94%); PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); EBITDA (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); HARDWARE STORES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); OFFICE PROPERTY (54%) Blackstone Group; Callaway Golf; Centerview Partners; Cerberus Capital Management; Chadbourne & Parke; Fila; Fila Korea; Fortune Brands; Jefferies; Korea Development Bank; McDermott Will & Emery; Mirae Private Equity; Morgan Stanley; Nomura; Golf; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Fortune Brands Incorporated; South Korea; Fortune Brands Incorporated|FOPRA|NYSE; Mergers & Acquisitions; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BEAM INC (92%); CALLAWAY GOLF CO (91%); ACUSHNET CO (85%); FORTUNE BRANDS HOME & SECURITY INC (85%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (68%); FILA KOREA LTD (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%) Fortune Brands Incorporated

TICKER: BEAM (NYSE) (92%); ELY (NYSE) (91%); FBHS (NYSE) (85%); 081660 (KSE) (58%); BX (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (52%) Fortune Brands Incorporated; FOPRA; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS551114 CORPORATE, SUBSIDIARY & REGIONAL MANAGING OFFICES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS337110 WOOD KITCHEN CABINET & COUNTERTOP MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (92%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (91%); NAICS332913 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTING & TRIM MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3432 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTINGS & TRIM (85%); NAICS315280 OTHER CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: BRUCE A CARBONARI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



659 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Podcast: I.M.F., the Mortgage Crisis and the Dollar

BYLINE: JEFF SOMMER


HIGHLIGHT: A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen.

 BODY:
Since it was founded in 1945, the International Monetary Fund has often played an important role in global finance. But it has rarely received as much news coverage as it has recently. The recent burst of attention, of course, wasn't the intention of the organization's leadership. It came as a result of the arrest of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who has resigned as I.M.F. managing director after being charged with sexually assaulting a maid at a Manhattan hotel. Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a prominent political figure in France, had helped to arrange the bailouts of Greece, Ireland and Portugal, and with debt problems flaring up again in Europe, his problems have complicated matters.
But in a conversation in the Weekend Business podcast, Floyd Norris, the chief financial correspondent for The Times, says the I.M.F.'s deep executive ranks should be capable of keeping the organization operating smoothly for a while, until a permanent replacement has been named. In the meantime, John Lipsky, an American who had been Mr. Strauss-Kahn's top deputy, is serving as acting managing director. 
In a separate discussion on the podcast, David Gillen and Gretchen Morgenson discuss the subprime mortgage crisis, the subject of Ms. Morgenson's new book, "Reckless Endangerment," an adaptation of which appears on the cover of Sunday Business. And I chat with Christina Romer, the Berkeley economist and former Obama administration adviser, who writes in the Economic View column in Sunday Business about what government officials would say if they could speak openly about the dollar. The official line is that the dollar is the purview of the Treasury, and that the government favors a strong dollar. The truth is that the dollar is subject to market forces, and that sometimes it is helpful if the dollar weakens. 
You can find specific segments of the podcast at these junctures: Floyd Norris (28:46); news summary (19:36); Gretchen Morgenson (18:02); Christina Romer (9:38); the week ahead (1:51).
As articles discussed in the podcast are published during the weekend, links will be added to this posting.
You can download the program by subscribing from The New York Times's podcast page or directly from iTunes.

        
Podcast: Economic Turbulence, and a Call for Fed Action
        
Will Ireland Default? Ask Belgium
        
Another Thought About China and Its Currency
        
Debating the Securitization of Mortgages
        
Who's Afraid of a Bank Tax?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); PODCASTING (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); EURO CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); SECURITIZATION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%) Christina Romer; dollar; financial crisis; International Monetary Fund; mortgage-backed securities; U.S. Dollar; Weekend Business; Romer, Christina D; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Subprime Mortgage Crisis; US Dollar (Currency)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); CHRISTINA ROMER (88%); BARACK OBAMA (55%) Romer, Christina D

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (76%); FRANCE (76%); PORTUGAL (72%); BELGIUM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



660 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Will the I.M.F. Rise Again?

BYLINE: SCOTT MALCOMSON


HIGHLIGHT: Everyone has some fascination with the combination of sex, money and power, but who would have thought they would all point to a career at the International Monetary Fund?

 BODY:
Everyone has some fascination with the combination of sex, money and power, but who would have thought they would all point to a career at the International Monetary Fund? Founded in 1945 at the Bretton Woods Conference with a mandate to prevent wild swings in national currency values, the fund, I would have imagined, would set itself against swinging of every kind. That is clearly not the case. According to Alan Beattie's interview this morning with I.M.F. semi-renegade Simon Johnson, the fund was firstly aimed at helping struggling postwar economies in Western Europe, and its first loan (in 1947) was to France. For 35 of the fund's 64 years, its managing director was French. When Western Europe had recovered, the fund went on to other things and secured for itself, let's say, a mixed reputation. From the 1960s onward, and culminating in the period of strict I.M.F. loan "conditionality" and rigid programs of "structural adjustment," the fund earned a reputation as a corps of technocratic drones pitilessly contented in their air-conditioned hotel rooms as they imposed cookie-cutter "solutions" on prostrate governments. You would read from time to time of "anti-I.M.F. riots" in one poor capital or another, and you could guess what it meant, and it wasn't pretty. By the early part of our own century, the fund was entering a period of repentance, not least because some poorer countries were now "emerging markets" and making a big point of repaying I.M.F. loans and swearing never to take them again. Escaping the I.M.F. became a symbol of freedom. But if the fund wasn't making loans it had no income, and we know what that means: time for reform! Emerging-market players, with a sympathetic United States, pushed for changes in voting power. In essence, the developing world would get more I.M.F. power at the expense (slightly) of the United States and (mainly) of Europe. Several reforms, first undertaken in 2006 and most recently last year, would take the voting share of "advanced economies" from 60.6 to 55.3, and of "emerging market and developing countries" from 39.4 to 44.7. 
Much of this process came during the recently and abruptly ended term of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who took office in November 2007. At the end of that year the fund had only one large borrower (Turkey) and its outstanding loans had, in just three years, dropped by 75 percent. Then the financial collapse hit, the world turned upside down, and the I.M.F. roared back. In his 2008 book "Fixing Global Finance," Martin Wolf - an economist and ex-World Bank man, now for many years at The Financial Times and commonly called the dean of financial journalists - wrote that the I.M.F. "is dominated by countries that will never borrow from it," that is, by rich countries. Even Homer nods, and Wolf was wrong: Countries that seemed rich, or richish, at the time, like Ireland, Portugal, even Greece, are now dependent on I.M.F. supervision, and countries that really are rich, like Germany, depend on the I.M.F. to help administer the bailouts of said countries and protect the exposures of their own banks and of their currency, the euro. Strauss-Kahn's considerable political skills and quick intelligence were crucial to getting the fund into this game and thus renewing its purpose and reviving its income. So the Europeans are arguing that his replacement should also be a European, because so much of the fund's business is now in Europe, a banker should understand her clients, etc. I can imagine this same argument was made in 1945, and it has real plausibility, but of course we must remember that for most of the fund's history its clients were not European and yet there was never, ever, or even once, a non-European managing director. And the very slow increase in non-European voting power at the fund was a direct result of this, eked out over many years one-tenth of one voting share at a time. Interestingly, deliciously even - ironywise - this makes Kemal Dervis a top candidate also. Yes, a Turk! How unpredictable history can be! The Turks certainly do know a lot about the I.M.F., having borrowed on a number of occasions - yet another thing the Turks have in common with Europeans, as it turns out, which might strike everyone as a common interest if E.U.-Turkish relations weren't so mired in bitterness. I'm particularly struck by the idea of a Turk helping to administer the harsh fiscal medicine, on behalf particularly of Germany, to its old rival Greece, which has been so tireless (together with France and, um, Germany again) in keeping Turkey out of the European Union. And meanwhile Turkey's own economy is doing just awesomely, thank you very much. According to Landon Thomas Jr.'s report today, Dervis has some office-romance past of his own - though it seems almost chaste compared to the apparent norm. More intriguing, he is, according to the same report, close friends with Greece's current prime minister. Could a Turk and a Greek together, in effect, rescue Europe, as well as bring the international institutions a step further into the 21st century? This story just gets stranger.

        
The Old World's Growing Pains
        
Finland Turns to the Right. Is France Next?
        
Ancien-Regime Change
        
French Cesar Awards Are Actually Funny

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CURRENCIES (72%) Dominique Strauss-Kahn; Europe; France; Greece; International Monetary Fund; Kemal Dervis; Turkey; Strauss-Kahn, Dominique; Bretton Woods Agreement; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (91%) Strauss-Kahn, Dominique

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); GREECE (72%) Europe; France; Greece; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



661 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Is the Ryan Budget a Litmus Test for 2012 Republicans?

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Declared and undeclared candidates for the Republican nomination are treading carefully around Representative Paul D. Ryan's budget proposal.

 BODY:
Has the Republican budget crafted by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin become a litmus test for Republican presidential hopefuls? 
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, said on Friday that he would have voted for the budget framework had he been in Congress. And he added that he would have done so knowing that it meant a vote for the plan's most controversial provision: turning Medicare into a voucher-based system.
"I would've voted for it," Mr. Huntsman told ABC's George Stephanopoulos on "Good Morning, America." Asked about Medicare specifically, Mr. Huntsman said: "Including the Medicare provisions. Because the only thing that scares me more than that is the trajectory that our debt is taking." 
The response by Mr. Huntsman, who is weighing a bid for the Republican nomination, came just a few days after Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, upended his own campaign by criticizing Mr. Ryan's budget as "social engineering."
A torrent of criticism came from party leaders, conservative pundits and even voters. One man in Iowa stopped Mr. Gingrich -- with camera's rolling -- and accused him of undercutting Mr. Ryan and his allies in Washington. "You're an embarrassment to our party," the man said.
Mr. Gingrich quickly apologized to Mr. Ryan and declared that he would have voted for his plan had he been in Congress.
The fallout for Mr. Gingrich, and Mr. Huntsman's quick and definitive statement, suggest that for some Republicans, Mr. Ryan's plan is seen as a kind of third-rail that cannot be criticized without risking serious political harm from within the party.
Democrats are seizing on that dynamic to try to tie the Republican candidates to Mr. Ryan's Medicare proposals. Dan Pfeiffer, the director of communications for the White House, sent a Twitter message on Thursday saying: "Biggest takeaway from the Gingrich flap - ending Medicare as we know it is the new GOP litmus test."
And on Friday, Joshua Dorner, a spokesman for American Progress, a liberal group, said in a statement: "So, one day on the trail in New Hampshire is all it took for Huntsman to fall out of love with the Affordable Care Act and decide to embrace the G.O.P.'s plan to end Medicare, which he acknowledges is scary."
But not everyone is embracing Mr. Ryan's plan like Mr. Huntsman and Mr. Gingrich. 
Several of President Obama's potential Republican rivals have issued mushy statements indicating general support and admiration for Mr. Ryan and his efforts to reduce debt, while keeping their distance from the specific proposals in the budget.
Here is a rundown of some of the current 2012 Republican candidates -- as well as some of those considering a run -- and their most recent public statements on the Ryan plan:
Tim Pawlenty, former governor of Minnesota: "I'll have my own plan and it'll have many of the same elements to it. And I certainly appreciate Congressman Ryan's courage and leadership that he's exhibited in contrast with President Obama, who until recently was ducking the issue. But as to the details of Congressman Ryan's plan, I will soon have my own plan, which will have many similarities."
Mitt Romney, former governor of Massachusetts: "Chairman Ryan's plan is not identical, I imagine, to what I will be putting forward in a campaign that will potentially go forward. But it's the right step. We're on the same page, to put this agenda out there and to talk about spending restraint, and ways to give future seniors more options and more control over their health care."
Representative Ron Paul of Texas: "Well, I give him a lot of credit. You know, I get frustrated because I don't think it's going to last that long to deal with it, because I keep thinking the way we spend money, and the way inflation's coming back, we're going to run up against a brick wall a lot sooner," Mr. Paul said. "So I don't fully endorse what he wants. I give him a lot of credit - at least he's going in the right direction. It just wasn't enough for me."
Mr. Huntsman: "I would've voted for it. Including the Medicare provisions. Because the only thing that scares me more than that is the trajectory that our debt is taking. And the trajectory that our debt is taking, now beyond $14 trillion, is going to have an impact on our currency."
Mr. Gingrich, about his "Meet the Press" appearance: "I made a mistake. And I called Paul Ryan today, who's a very close personal friend, and I said that. The fact is that I have supported what Ryan has tried to do on the budget. The fact is that my newsletter strongly praised the budget when he brought it out. And the budget vote is one that I'm happy to say I would have voted for. I will defend and I will be glad to answer any Democrat who attempts to distort what I said. And I made a simple mistake."
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota: "I supported that budget blueprint, though I've expressed caution about how we approach the issue of Medicare. We must keep our promises to those who receive Medicare benefits, and those who are nearing the age of Medicare eligibility. Our challenge is to reduce the soaring amounts that government spends on health care, without burdening those who are most vulnerable."
Mitch Daniels, governor of Indiana: "The House budget resolution is the first serious proposal produced by either party to deal with the overriding issue of our time. The national debt we are amassing threatens the livelihood and the liberty of every single American, and in particular the life prospects of our young people. Anyone criticizing this plan without offering a specific and equally bold program of his own has failed in the public duty to be honest and clear with Americans about the gravest danger we are facing together."
Sarah Palin, former governor of Alaska: "It's a good, fiscally sound and courageous plan. Ryan's budget is a big difference, as opposed to the Obama budget, which of course, has us on the road to bankruptcy. Paul Ryan's plan saves us $1.2 billion every single day over a decade."

        
Republicans Bet Public Will Reward Them for Proposing Cuts
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
Foreign Policy Looms Large as 2012 Election Issue
        
Roemer to Run as Irritant to Republicans in 2012
        
Obama Strategy: Share Credit (and Blame?)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); POLITICS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (76%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%) 2012; barack obama; CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; Paul Ryan; Republicans; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Federal Budget (US); Politics and Government; United States Politics and Government; House of Representatives; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (94%); JON HUNTSMAN (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



662 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Floyd Norris)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Who Are These People?

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Aside from that, how did Dominique Strauss-Kahn do?

 BODY:
Can you identify any of these people?
A. H. Johannes WitteveenB. Pierre-Paul SchweitzerC. Rodrigo de RatoD. Horst KohlerE. Michel CamdessusF. Ivar RoothG. Per JacobssonH. Camille GuttI. Jacques de Larosiere
Had someone given me this quiz a week ago, I would have gotten two of them right. (E. and I.) Can you do better now?
Here's a hint: Those are nine of the 10 men who have held a certain job. The 10th one was reasonably well known in financial circles a week ago, but now is world famous, with his picture on the front of every newspaper.
Still need another hint? In the front-page photos, he was wearing handcuffs and accompanied by New York City police officers.
Answer: They are the first nine managing directors of the International Monetary Fund. 
The I.M.F. is an institution that is normally ignored by most people -- until it is their country that is pleading for help. Then the head of the fund can become a target of anger as the one forcing austerity measures. Most important policy decisions are made by the fund's board, whose members represent governments.
Aside from the reasons he became infamous, Dominique Strauss-Kahn will be remembered for his decision to get the I.M.F. involved in the Greek bailout. There was initially resistance from Europe to such involvement, which did not want outsiders involved, and the fact he knew everybody that mattered helped to ease the way.
At the moment, that decision is not looking good.
"Mr. Strauss-Kahn's decision to treat the crisis as a matter of liquidity rather than solvency led the I.M.F. to eschew any notion of debt restructuring, or exiting from the euro, as a solution to the periphery's public sector and external imbalance problems," wrote Desmond Lachmann, a resident fellow of the American Enterprise Institute, in The Financial Times on Thursday. "Rather, he opted for draconian fiscal tightening and radical structural reform as a cure-all."
That has not worked. Greece must default at some point, and the extra year has only served to leave a lot of Greek debt in the hands of the European Central Bank while deepening the Greek recession. 
His successor will have to decide if, or how, to change a failed policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (88%); CORPORATE DEBT (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); EURO (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); POLICE FORCES (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%) Strauss-Kahn, Dominique; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); International Monetary Fund; Greece; Finance

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) International Monetary Fund

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (93%) Strauss-Kahn, Dominique

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GREECE (91%); EUROPE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Greece

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



663 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Reap the Dividends of Fuel Economy?

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: Because the Big Three's light trucks and larger cars have farther to go, they have greater potential to add consumer value through improved fuel economy, a report says.

 BODY:
There are two basic arguments over whether and how the country should respond to climate change and other environmental challenges. One focuses on government's right to regulate industry, and the other on the costs and benefits of such regulation.
A new, almost biblical twist to one of these arguments was presented at a recent conference organized by Ceres, a Boston-based nonprofit that brings together investors, companies and environmental organizations who embrace sustainable business practices. twist. When it comes to automobile fuel economy, two analysts suggested, the worst shall do best.
A report by analysts at Citigroup distributed at the conference said that while the fuel-economy standards currently under consideration by the Obama administration would result in a 6 percent increase in industry sales in 2020, compared with their baseline scenario. But for Detroit's Big Three automakers, which have lagged behind companies like Toyota in this area, sales would increase 8 percent and profits 12 percent.
The report, which leans heavily on analyses by the Transportation Research Institute at the University of Michigan, said that, in playing catch-up on fuel economy, "light trucks and larger cars, in which the Detroit Three sport a greater share, have greater potential to add consumer value through improved fuel economy than do smaller cars and car-based trucks."New federal and California fuel-efficiency standards for the model years 2017 to 2025 are to be announced in September. Current rules require auto companies to produce a fleet of vehicles averaging 34.1 miles a gallon by 2016. 
The Citigroup report also estimates that by 2015, hybrids' market share will rise to 3.4 percent from 2.4 percent in 2010, with a combination of new plug-in and fully electric vehicles combined representing 2.6 percent of the market.
Suppliers of pollution-control technology needed to meet the new fuel standards like Johnson Controls and BorgWarner will be "key beneficiaries" of an industry fuel-efficiency standard, according to the report, which estimates that it will reach 42 miles a gallon in 2020.
The report was distributed at a news conference featuring Mary D. Nichols, the chairman of the California Air Resources Board and a reliable advocate of the economic benefits of clean-air regulations.

        
A Curmudgeon's View of the Energy Challenge
        
Piston Engine Holds Promise for Fuel Economy
        
Hybrids vs. Nonhybrids: The 5-Year Equation
        
A Spin in the Chevy Volt
        
Honda Is Greenest, Study Suggests

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (70%); MARKET SHARE (69%) CERES; Citigroup; fuel economy; fuel efficiency standard; Nichols, Mary D; Obama, Barack; Automobiles; Conservation of Resources; Fuel Efficiency; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Trucks and Trucking; Citigroup Inc; Detroit (Mich); Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Business; Energy Economics; Living

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); BORGWARNER INC (55%); JOHNSON CONTROLS INC (53%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%) Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); BWA (NYSE) (55%); JCI (NYSE) (53%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (53%); SIC3822 AUTOMATIC CONTROLS FOR REGULATING RESIDENTIAL & COMMERCIAL ENVIRONMENTS & APPLIANCES (53%); SIC2531 PUBLIC BUILDING & RELATED FURNITURE (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%) Nichols, Mary D; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



664 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' New Tactic: Praising 2012 Republicans

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: What's with all this Democratic praise of the Republicans eager to oust Mr. Obama from office? A hint: it's not a sudden outbreak of bipartisanship.

 BODY:
At a fund-raiser in Boston this week, President Obama went out of his way to praise Mitt Romney, the former Republican governor of the state, for "an assist" in passing health care reform.
Earlier in the week, a progressive group formed by labor and Democratic operatives called Mitch Daniels, the Republican governor of Indiana, "another welcome adult voice." And a separate Democratic group declared Jon Huntsman, the former Republican governor of Utah, to have a "sensible and sometimes progressive record."
What's up with all this Democratic praise of the Republicans eager to oust Mr. Obama from office? 
Here's a hint: It's not a sudden outbreak of bipartisanship in Washington. Democrats have decided that meddling in the Republican primary might offer some election-year benefits for the president and his party. 
On the surface, the statements are models of kumbaya rhetoric.
"Governor Daniels could be another welcome adult voice in the health care policy debate," said Eddie Vale, a spokesman for Protect Your Care, a group formed to promote Mr. Obama's health care reforms. "When push comes to shove on actual policy, his administration in Indiana has been pretty good at helping to implement the Affordable Care Act."
But the real idea is to put Republican candidates in an uncomfortable position. Here's how the strategy could work, according to several Democratic advisers involved in implementing it: 
1) Convincing conservative voters that Republican candidates like Mr. Romney or Mr. Huntsman hold similar views to Mr. Obama might make them unacceptable in a Republican primary dominated by Tea Party activists.
If that happens, the Republican party is more likely to nominate a fringe candidate whose views - while acceptable to the activists who participate in the Republican primary voting - would be seen as too far-out in a general election.
A perfect example of this, Democrats said, might be the efforts to point out the kind words that Mr. Huntsman has said about Mr. Obama. "You are a remarkable leader," Mr. Huntsman wrote in a private letter to Mr. Obama after being chosen as the president's ambassador to China.
2) If Republican candidates like Mr. Romney or Mr. Huntsman push back against the Democratic praise, they run the risk of looking like they are flip-flopping on positions they once proudly held.
The best example here might be Mr. Romney, whom Democrats lavished with compliments for pushing through a health care plan in Massachusetts that embraced a mandate that individuals have health insurance. 
The more Mr. Romney pushes back against the Democrats, the more he looks like he has no principles. If he stands firm on his past support for an individual mandate, he plays into the Democratic efforts to taint him in the eyes of conservatives.
3) Finally, if one of the Republicans emerges as the party's nominee despite the Democratic plaudits, it may be tougher for that candidate to draw distinctions with Mr. Obama on those issues where they have seemed to agree.
Groups like Protect Your Care hope that by identifying Republicans who have said supportive things about similar health care proposals, they will help bolster the popularity of Mr. Obama's overhaul. When Republicans attack "Obamacare" for requiring individuals to buy health insurance, Democrats are eager to point to Mr. Romney's support for the mandate.
But one Democratic operative, who asked not to be named discussing political strategy, said the primary goal is to nudge the Republican party in the direction of a candidate that will be easier to beat in the general election.
"You'd rather run against what you perceive to be their weakest candidates, the ones that fall far outside the mainstream," the operative said. "If you were the Democratic nominee, would you rather run against Mitt Romney or Jon Huntsman? Or would you rather run against Michele Bachmann or Newt Gingrich?"
The desired impact? To twist Republicans in knots on some of the nation's biggest issues.
"It's either going to push their party, their primary process, so far to the right that they come up with someone so far to the right that it's a Goldwater-type election," said a second Democratic strategist.
"Or, if a Romney or Huntsman gets through," the strategist said, "now you are going into a general election setting up the frame that both guys have the same position on health care."
Privately funded Democratic groups are not allowed to coordinate the strategy with Mr. Obama or the Democratic National Committee. But several strategists noted that it's not hard for everyone involved to see what is being said publicly. 
And even if Republicans are merely annoyed by the repeated Democratic praise, that's fine, too.
"None of us think that the Democratic party can dictate the outcome of the Republican nomination fight," said one strategist. "But we can have some fun."

        
Obama Strategy: Share Credit (and Blame?)
        
Obama Speech Defends Liberal Principles
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
The Case for Obama Campaigning as a Foreign Policy President
        
Lots of Talk, but Still No 2012 Republican Candidates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%) 2008 election; 2012 election; barack obama; Congress; CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; economy; health care; jon huntsman; Mitch Daniels; mitt romney; presidential election; Republicans; Daniels, Mitchell E Jr; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Politics and Government; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITCH DANIELS (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%) Daniels, Mitchell E Jr; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



665 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Embracing the Anthropocene

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Getting comfortable with sitting in the planetary driver's seat.

 BODY:
Following up on my coverage of the first scientific conference on the proposition that we have entered a geological epoch of our own making, the Anthropocene, Room for Debate has assembled a great cast of characters to discuss whether this is a good, bad or indifferent thing.
Weighing in are Emma Marris, the author of "Rambunctious Garden"; Jon Foley, the director of the Institute on the Environment at the University of Minnesota; Brad Allenby, a professor of engineering and ethics at Arizona State University; Ronald Bailey, science correspondent for Reason magazine; Erle C. Ellis, an ecologist at the University of Maryland (who spoke at the London meeting); and Ruth DeFries, an ecologist at Columbia University.
In many ways, this discussion, and the meeting at the Geological Society of London a week ago, all grow out of the shift that Stewart Brand made in the 40 years between the "Whole Earth Catalog" and his latest book, "Whole Earth Discipline."
Those years took him from the relatively relaxed dictum, "We are as gods; we might as well get good at it," to a more urgent one, "We are as gods and have to get good at it." (Read this Edge.org essay by Brand for his explanation of that change.)
Until recently, on issues like the growing human influence on climate, many people have had a tendency to echo, perhaps silently, the comment made in 2006 by Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia when he was politely corrected for mixing up the stratosphere and troposphere during arguments over the Clean Air Act and carbon dioxide: "Troposphere, whatever," Justice Scalia replied. "I told you before I'm not a scientist." Over a brief flutter of laughter from observers, he added: "That's why I don't want to have to deal with global warming, to tell you the truth." [related blog post]Through the early days of the Anthropocene, ignorance was blissful. We could tear into forests or vacuum up fish stocks or burn fossil fuels with abandon. Even now, I get the strong feeling we're kind of like the wayward teenager being nagged by grownups (that's the role scientists seem to have adopted).
The question that really nags at us, of course, is one I explored here a couple of years ago: What do we want to be when we grow up?
One clear reality is that for a long time to come, Earth is what we choose to make of it, for better or worse.
Taking full ownership of the Anthropocene won't be easy. The necessary feeling is a queasy mix of excitement and unease. I've compared it to waking up in the first car on the first run of a new roller coaster that hasn't been examined fully by engineers.
That's a very different sensation than, say, mourning the end of nature.
It's more a celebration, in a way -- a deeper acceptance of our place on the planet, with all of our synthetic trappings, and our faults, as fundamentally natural.
In fact, in the broadest sense we have to embrace the characteristics, good and bad, that make humans such a rare thing -- a species that has become a planet-scale force. Cyanobacteria also were a planet-scale force, oxygenating the atmosphere some two billion years ago. The difference is that cyanobacteria weren't aware of their potency, while we are at least starting to absorb that reality.
It's a slow process. That's why I liked the proposition laid out by someone at Arizona State University after my recent onstage conversation with Braden Allenby (one of the Room for Debaters):The way I would like to see it is in, say, 100 years in the future the London Geological Society will look back and consider this period...a transition from the lesser Anthropocene to the greater Anthropocene.That has a nice feel to it. Fully integrating this awareness into our personal choices and societal norms and policies will take time.
It is "the great work," as Thomas Berry put it. Technology alone will not do the trick. Another keystone to better meshing humanity's infinite aspirations with life on a finite planet will be slowly shifting value systems from the foundation up, not through some Beltway debate.
Bhutan's experiment with "gross national happiness," along with other countries' more formal efforts to develop indices of well being to complement strict economic metrics, are a step in that direction.
Edward O. Wilson's "Biophilia" was a powerful look outward at the characteristics of the natural world that we inherently cherish.
Now we need a dose of what I've taken to calling anthropophilia, as well.
We have to accept ourselves, flaws and all, in order to move beyond what has been something of an unconscious, species-scale pubescent growth spurt, enabled by fossil fuels in place of testosterone.
In "The World Without Us," Alan Weisman created a haunting thought experiment - imagining a planet awakening after the vanishing of its human tormentor.
The challenge is that there is a real experiment well under way, and we're all in the test tube.
We're stuck with "The World With Us."
It's time to grasp that uncomfortable, but ultimately hopeful, idea.

        
Confronting the 'Anthropocene'
        
On Cathedrals, Dreams and Climate
        
Darwin and Havel's Unified Planet Theory
        
Earth is Us
        
The Many Forces Driving Extinction

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); ETHICS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WRITERS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Anthropocene; noosphere; Sustainability; environmental policy; History; human nature; intelligence; resilience

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (88%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



666 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 20, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Netanyahu Arrives

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
In Today's Times:President Obama will meet this morning with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on the first day of the Israeli leader's five-day visit. Helene Cooper looks at the brittle relationship between the men, who will meet at 11:15 at the White House, hold a press conference around noon, then work through lunch into the early afternoon.
In a speech on the Middle East on Thursday, Mr. Obama declared that the prevailing borders of Israel before the 1967 war - adjusted to some degree to account for Israeli settlements in the West Bank - should be the basis of a deal. Mark Landler and Steven Lee Myers write that Mr. Obama's statement represented a subtle but significant shift in American policy. And it thrust the president back into the region's most nettlesome dispute at a time when conditions would seem to make reaching a deal especially difficult.
The Israeli reaction came quickly, Ethan Bronner reports. In a pointed statement just before boarding a plane to Washington, Mr. Netanyahu said that while he appreciated Mr. Obama's commitment to peace, he "expects to hear a reaffirmation from President Obama of American commitments made to Israel in 2004 which were overwhelmingly supported by both Houses of Congress."
In his speech Thursday, Mr. Obama also announced financial support for Egypt and called on oil-rich nations to underwrite transitions to democracy in the Middle East and North Africa. In a news analysis, David Sanger looks at how the president's sales pitch runs into economic realities in the United States and Europe.
On Capitol Hill, Senate Republicans have succeeded for the first time in blocking one of Mr. Obama's judicial nominees. The victim: Goodwin Liu, a California law professor who was nominated to a federal appeals court. Carl Hulse writes that the Liu vote suggests a new Republican willingness to blockade judicial nominees, an indication that Mr. Obama could face serious resistance as he tries to fill vacancies on the bench.
Charlie Savage reports that Congressional leaders have reached a deal to extend by four years several statutes that expanded the Federal Bureau of Investigation's counterterrorism and surveillance powers after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The provisions, he explains, "allow investigators to get 'roving wiretap' court orders allowing them to follow terrorism suspects who switch phone numbers or providers; to get orders allowing them to seize "any tangible things" relevant to a security investigation, like a business's customer records; and to get national-security wiretap orders against noncitizen suspects who are not believed to be connected to any foreign power."
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has released instructions on how to deal with apocalypse zombies. Seriously. Donald G. McNeil Jr. and Gardiner Harris report that the guidance is part of a larger effort to highlight the public health agency's role in saving lives and an attempt to help the agency avoid Congress's budget shears.
Around the Web:Mr. Obama's proposal to extend for two years Robert Mueller's tenure as director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation director has caused some grumbling among agency staff members who say Mr. Mueller isn't abiding by term limits, even though he imposed them on his subordinates, according to The Washington Post.
The Wall Street Journal follows Newt Gingrich to Iowa and New Hampshire, where the Republican presidential candidate is working to salvage his campaign from early stumbles.
NATO officials say the mission in Libya has significantly damaged the regime of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, and commanders believe it will eventually collapse under pressure from allied forces, The Los Angeles Times reports.
Happening in Washington:
Mr. Obama will appear at the C.I.A. headquarters in Virginia to thank employees for their work in bringing down Osama bin Laden.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (86%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (84%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%); WIRETAPPING (65%); APPEALS COURTS (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPE (79%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



667 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: On Tyson's Face, It's Art. On Film, a Legal Issue.

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
Hollywood is accustomed to lawsuits over salaries, movie credits, even half-baked concepts that become movies. And now a studio may be going to court over a tattoo -- or at least over the original concept of the tattoo.
In ''The Hangover Part II,'' the sequel to the very successful what-happened-last-night comedy, the character played by Ed Helms wakes up with a permanent tattoo bracketing his left eye. The Maori-inspired design is instantly recognizable as the one sported by the boxer Mike Tyson, which is part of the joke. (Mr. Tyson makes an appearance in both films, playing himself.)
But S. Victor Whitmill, a tattoo artist formerly of Las Vegas and currently from rural Missouri, doesn't quite see the humor. Mr. Whitmill designed the tattoo for Mr. Tyson, called it ''tribal tattoo,'' and claims it as a copyrighted work.
He has gone to Federal District Court in St. Louis to ask a judge to stop Warner Brothers Entertainment from using the tattoo in its posters or in the movie, which would amount to stopping the film from being released, as well as to demand monetary damages for what he calls ''reckless copyright infringement'' by the studio. 
''Mr. Whitmill has never been asked for permission for, and has never consented to, the use, reproduction or creation of a derivative work based on his original tattoo,'' argues the lawsuit, which was filed April 28, and will be taken up next week.
The suit isn't frivolous, however, legal experts say. They contend the case could offer the first rulings on tricky questions about how far the rights of the copyright holder extend in creations that are, after all, on someone else's body. They are questions likely to crop up more often as it becomes more common for actors or athletes to have tattoos and as tattoo designs become more sophisticated.
Warner Brothers responded on Friday in a brief to Judge Catherine D. Perry, stating that any delay in releasing the film would have huge economic costs. It also argued that there was no legal precedent for Mr. Whitmill's assertion of copyright, saying he had put forward a ''radical claim that he is entitled, under the Copyright Act, to control the use of a tattoo that he created on the face of another human being.''
Copyright and trademark law can be hard to understand intuitively -- for example, the idea that you can ''own'' a photograph or a letter, but not own the right to reproduce its content. The example of a tattoo, where ''ownership'' means having it become part of your body, actually does little to clear up the matter.
The wrinkle in the ''Hangover'' lawsuit is that Mr. Whitmill has taken pains to leave Mr. Tyson out of it. ''This case is not about Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson's likeness, or Mike Tyson's right to use or control his identity,'' the complaint says. ''This case is about Warner Bros. appropriation of Mr. Whitmill's art and Warner Bros. unauthorized use of that art, separate and apart from Mr. Tyson.''
''One of the things that the copyright law gives you as an artist is control over your work -- and he lost control here,'' said Michael A. Kahn, the lawyer who is representing Mr. Whitmill. The complaint includes a photograph of the tattoo being inked and a statement from Mr. Tyson agreeing that ''all artwork, sketches and drawings related to my tattoo and any photographs of my tattoo are property'' of Mr. Whitmill's business.
If a tattoo clearly violates copyright -- say, exactly reproduces a Keith Haring drawing or an Annie Leibovitz photograph without permission -- could a court order it removed?
The case gets more serious, according to Christopher A. Harkins, an expert on copyright and patents who has written the definitive law review article on the subject, when someone tries to profit from the copying -- by, for instance, selling photographs of the infringing tattoos.
''I don't see a court forcing someone to remove it, or wear a burqa, but they may not allow me to profit from that work that I had tattooed on my body,'' he said, adding that it would be very unlikely that this action could delay ''The Hangover Part II'' from being released.
The range of material that individuals and businesses are seeking to get copyright protection for has only been expanding, often at the insistence of movie studios. Mattel has gone to court to assert the copyright of the face of its Barbie doll; fashion companies have been lobbying Congress to pass a law to protect unique, nontrivial new designs. And trademark, which is governed by different laws and is much more contextual, has been used by athletes and coaches to get a measure of control over terms like ''three-peat'' or ''Revis Island.''
In 2005, Rasheed Wallace and Nike were sued by a tattoo artist, Matthew Reed, over a commercial that outlined a tattoo as he discussed why he had it created; the case was settled. David Beckham and his favorite tattooist, Louis Molloy, had a public dispute that year over his plan to highlight them in an advertisement. The feud culminated in an interview with Mr. Molloy in The Daily Mirror that ran under the headline ''I Own Beck's Tattoo .. and I'll Sue.''
''It is such a nascent area,'' Mr. Harkins said, ''and courts are always struggling to keep up with technology. I don't think Rasheed Wallace ever thought about copyright infringement.''
Warner Brothers in its brief also invoked the ''fair use'' defense for ''Hangover Part II,'' namely the right to parody what has become a well-known tattoo since it first appeared on Mr. Tyson's face in February 2003.
''That's the real question: the copyright act balances the copyright owners' rights and not stifling the creativity of the owners -- it would stifle creativity to not be able to make a parody,'' Mr. Harkins said.
Issues like how central the tattoo is to the plot, how much of the film it is in and whether it is shown in a non-parody context were the kind of factors a judge would consider when determining if ''fair use'' was in play, he said.
With so many factors in play, and the motivator of ever-rising legal fees, Mr. Harkins said, ''it will be settled out of court, as most of them are.''
Mr. Whitmill declined to be interviewed, but Mr. Reed, the tattooist who sued Rasheed Wallace and Nike, spoke from his shop in Portland, Ore.
While he would not comment on his case directly, he explained that one could think of the process as a collaboration between the tattooer and the tattooed, ''owned by both people, based on the trust that is used to create it.''
''It's there for everyone to enjoy,'' Mr. Reed added, ''but if you think you are going to make money from it, you should get the artist's permission.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In ''The Hangover Part II,'' Ed Helms sports Mike Tyson's face tattoo. Its designer is suing, claiming it is copyrighted work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) (A1)
 Mike Tyson's tattoo is by S. Victor Whitmill, who is suing Warner Brothers, but has taken pains to leave Mr. Tyson out of it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS PIZZELLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); FILM (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); LITIGATION (89%); COPYRIGHT (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); DAMAGES (78%); TATTOO PARLORS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (67%); TRADEMARK LAW (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (56%) MISSOURI, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

TITLE: Hangover Part II, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



668 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: New York City Opera to Leave Lincoln Center

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Just two years after a $107 million renovation at its Lincoln Center home, the troubled New York City Opera plans to move out and perform in various places around New York, officials of the company said on Friday.
City Opera disclosed its plans as it announced that it had settled on a slimmed-down budget for five operas and three concerts, starting in October, after speculation that financial woes would force it to halt performances.
The opera's departure would be the first major defection from America's premier arts complex, although City Opera has been talking about a move for 30 years. The New York Philharmonic also flirted with the idea of relocating, to Carnegie Hall in 2003, but that deal fell through.
After leadership turmoil, a canceled season and severe financial difficulties, the current move represents yet another sharp drop in prestige at City Opera. Founded in 1943 as the ''people's opera company,'' it has nurtured great artists like Beverly Sills, Samuel Ramey, Placido Domingo and Sherrill Milnes. 
Apparently the board, which met in a daylong session on Thursday and continued discussions on Friday morning, saw moving as the only way to keep the company breathing. Abandoning the David H. Koch Theater will save $4.5 million in yearly costs, company officials said.
''We love Lincoln Center,'' said George Steel, City Opera's general manager and artistic director. ''It's a wonderful place. But the reality is that the fixed costs of living here are simply too high. That's why we are looking at leaving.''
He added, ''I think we're leaving for good.''
But many questions remained. Mr. Steel declined to identify what operas the company would perform or where. He also refused to give the amount of the budget, although he said it would be ''significantly smaller'' than this year's budget of $22 million. Charles R. Wall, the chairman, said, ''We just don't want that information to be in the public domain.''
This season's deficit amounted to $5 million. Mr. Wall pledged to make up half of the gap and said efforts were under way to cover the rest. Meanwhile, the endowment, which was raided to pay for operating losses and shrank further in a bad economy, has dropped to $9 million from a recent high of $55 million.
Now, just five months before the season, potential ticket buyers do not know what music they will hear, who will be singing, what the tickets will cost or where to go to take their seats. The prospect is almost mind-boggling in a world where schedules are fixed years ahead.
Mr. Steel did say that two of the five productions would be on a smaller scale -- Baroque works or the like -- and would play in theaters of, say, 300 to 900 seats. The others would be in a ''relatively unorthodox'' performance space comparable in size to the Koch theater, which has about 2,600 seats. The company is also looking for administrative offices.
''My plan is to establish a home base for the company at a single venue and branch out,'' Mr. Steel said. ''We have a very good idea where we will do these productions.'' City Opera also presented five operas in each of the last two seasons, compared with four times as many in past decades.
It was also not clear what legal and contractual steps were necessary to part company with Lincoln Center, or what the effect would be on the whole complex.
''The relationship is too complicated for me to summarize it handily,'' Mr. Steel said. ''We are going to sit down with all of the stakeholders and have a discussion.''
A Lincoln Center spokeswoman, Betsy Vorce, said it was ''premature for us to comment on New York City Opera's situation'' and declined to address what the financial effect on Lincoln Center would be.
City Opera has long been frustrated by the poor acoustics of the Koch Theater, which were primarily designed to muffle the footfalls of the dancers of its co-tenant, New York City Ballet. It had previously looked at locations including the World Trade Center site and Damrosch Park in Lincoln Center.
When its latest plan -- a projected new home on Amsterdam Avenue and 66th Street -- fell through in July 2006, Susan L. Baker, then the chairwoman, remained unswayed, saying, ''We feel even more firm in our resolve about the need and desire to have a new home.''
Seven months later, the company hired the Belgian impresario Gerard Mortier to be its general manager. Mr. Mortier immediately announced that the company would stay put, and a major renovation was undertaken. The designers installed a hydraulic lift for the orchestra pit, enlarged the pit, carved out two aisles through the rings of seats and sought to improve acoustics. Mr. Mortier resigned in 2008.
Mr. Steel declined to comment on the seesaw history. ''I didn't make most of the decisions you are referring to,'' he said.
Mr. Wall also said he felt no embarrassment about the company's leaving its prestigious home. ''It's going to be quite nice to be in another outstanding venue in the city,'' he said. ''Not everybody is built to be at Lincoln Center.''
The renovation work forced the company essentially to halt operations for a season, digging it a deeper financial hole. The situation is now complicated by looming contract negotiations with important unions. Alan Gordon, the president of the American Guild of Musical Artists, which covers the chorus, singers and stage managers, saw the very existence of a season -- even if the stages were unknown -- as positive.
''It doesn't matter to us where they perform,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''If they can satisfy the guarantee of 26 weeks or close to it, that's good.''
But in a later e-mail, he also criticized Mr. Steel for trying to eliminate guaranteed salaries and to pay employees per rehearsal and performance, like ''an old-fashioned shape-up on the waterfront.'' Under that structure, he said, the company would ''not be an opera company worth existing,'' and guild members ''would not work for that sort of company.''
He added, ''Steel's approach is out-and-out stupid and it's designed to assure that City Opera goes out of business.''
The chairwoman of the orchestra committee, Gail Kruvand, a double bassist, was more circumspect. ''We will just sort of wait and see,'' she said. ''It would be very easy to second-guess. We can't do that right now.'' She added that the renovations made the pit a much more comfortable place to play.
''Should it come to pass that we move out,'' she said, ''yeah, we'll miss it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center. The opera's departure would be the first major defection from the arts complex. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CITY OPERA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 George Steel, the general manager and artistic director of the New York City Opera. The group has cut its annual budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RENE PEREZ/NEW YORK CITY OPERA) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); RELOCATIONS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); COST OF LIVING (71%); TICKET SALES (63%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



669 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Bin Laden Files Discuss Attacking Oil Tankers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Files belonging to Osama bin Laden discussed the idea of hijacking oil tankers and blowing them up at sea last summer, creating explosions he hoped would rattle the world's economy and send oil prices skyrocketing, American officials said Friday. 
United States officials said the tanker idea, included in documents found in the compound where Bin Laden was killed nearly three weeks ago, was little more than a fantasy.
But the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security issued a confidential warning to police departments and the energy industry on Friday. The alert said that Al Qaeda had sought information on the size and construction of oil tankers, had decided that spring and summer provided the best weather to approach the ships, had determined that blowing them up would be easiest from the inside and believed that an explosion would create an ''extreme economic crisis.''
''We are not aware of indications of any specific or imminent terrorist attack plotting against the oil and natural gas sector overseas or in the United States,'' a Homeland Security spokesman, Matthew Chandler, said in a statement on Friday. ''However, in 2010 there was continuing interest by members of Al Qaeda in targeting oil tankers and commercial oil infrastructure at sea.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (91%); BULK SHIPPING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



670 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: A Bad Year for Bargains

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The average price for a new car in the United States is edging toward $30,000, as automakers remain stingy with discounts and there just are not enough of the most popular vehicles available.
Though the average price remains below historic highs when adjusted for inflation, nominally it has never been so high, according to the auto-research site TrueCar.com. That concerns some car company executives, who fear that the industry's recent comeback could be stalled if buyers start experiencing sticker shock.
And early sales data for this month are not encouraging: Retail sales of new vehicles are projected to total about 850,000 in May, according to J. D. Power & Associates. That translates to an annual seasonally adjusted selling rate of about 9.6 million units, a significant drop-off from the 10.7 million rate achieved from January through April. The data exclude sales to rental car and other fleets. 
''You've got to figure out that sweet spot where you offer just enough incentives to get people to buy your cars without sacrificing profitability,'' said Jesse Toprak, vice president of industry trends at TrueCar.
Several factors account for the rising prices. Because there are more new models on the market than in recent years, automakers need fewer incentives to lure consumers into the showrooms. The earthquake in Japan has also caused shortages of some cars and crossover vehicles built there by Toyota, Honda and Nissan, which has driven the prices up on the limited inventory in stock.
Car companies are also commanding better prices for their small cars because of added features like entertainment systems and heated seats. Consumers are increasingly paying more to get upscale options on smaller cars that were once primarily bare-bones purchases.
''On a dollar basis, they're paying more, but they're getting a whole lot more car than in the past,'' said Mr. Toprak.
The average transaction price for a new vehicle in the United States, including rebates and other incentives, reached $29,602 in April, according to TrueCar.com. That figure represented an increase of $324 over March. But automakers are not necessarily getting greedy, industry analysts said. Some of the increases are going toward covering higher material costs, and the companies are also taking advantage of strong demand.
General Motors, for example, is running short on supply of its Chevrolet Cruze compact car, and the Ford Motor Company is low on inventories of its Focus sedan and Explorer S.U.V. Some of the biggest year-over-year price increases are found on revamped, hot-selling models like Chrysler's Jeep Grand Cherokee and Honda's Odyssey minivan.
''The pricing is more of a symptom of lack of supply than anything else,'' said Jim Farley, Ford's head of global sales marketing. ''But it is affecting the industry's volumes.''
Ford and Toyota announced across-the-board price increases this year on their 2011 models. Ford said it would raise prices by an average of $117, or 0.4 percent, while Toyota said it would lift prices by about 1.7 percent on many of its Toyota, Lexus and Scion models. G.M. has said it will charge more for many of its vehicles, by an average of $123.
But the increases are only part of the equation. Overall discounts and sales incentives fell to their lowest levels in five years in April, according to the automotive site Edmunds.com.
Incentives averaged about $2,320 per vehicle in April, a $370 reduction from the period a year earlier. Some of the reduction is attributed to sales programs that expired and were not renewed. Japanese carmakers have also pulled back incentives because of the earthquake-related shortages, and the American companies have followed suit.
''Our incentive strategy is based on the competitive environment,'' said Mr. Farley. ''There's been a drastic change because stocks have been depleted and we're launching a lot of new products that don't require incentives to sell.''
Automakers always try to balance the need for incentives against consumers' demand. But if companies pull back too far on discounts, some potential shoppers will simply wait until the next deals are announced.
The American automakers are not as reliant on heavy incentives as in years past, mostly because the companies closed dozens of factories to bring their production in better balance with their market shares.
They also have little reason to pile on discounts when their Japanese competitors have cut incentives so drastically.
''Putting incentives on cars you don't have doesn't make sense,'' said Neale A. Kuperman, president of Rockland Toyota in Blauvelt, N.Y.
Mr. Kuperman said he usually sold up to 20 Prius gas-electric hybrid cars each month, but so far in May has only sold six. His overall dealership sales volumes are down about 50 percent because of inventory shortages.
There are no discounts available on many models because of supply constraints, he said.
''As much as everybody likes to think that we set the prices, the market dictates it,'' said Mr. Kuperman. ''When there's less of a supply, the prices tend to go up. When there's more, the prices go down.''
J. D. Powers's executive director of forecasting, Jeff Schuster, said the lower sales so far in May could be attributed partly to higher transaction prices, as well as rising fuel costs and inventory shortages.
With fleet sales included, the annual selling rate for May so far is about 11.9 million vehicles, compared with a 13.2 million rate for the previous four months combined.
Even with the sales drop, Mr. Schuster said that vehicle prices, without incentives, had risen about 1.6 percent in May from April.
''It makes for better margins for the automakers, but on potentially lower volumes,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Drivers are eager for revamped models like the Jeep Grand Cherokee. The average price for a new vehicle reached $29,602 in April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 A Ford Focus assembly line in Wayne, Mich. Several automakers have announced price increases, and discounts are down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) CHART: AVERAGE PRICE PAID FOR AUTOS: The average price that United States customers actually paid for vehicles, less all incentives. Does not include taxes, title or registration fees. (Source: TrueCar.com) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MINIVANS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); SEDANS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SALES REBATES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); TRUECAR INC (57%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



671 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Illegal Immigrants' Underground Lives Hobble Their U.S.-Born Children, Study Says

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Eulogia was scared and adrift. At 25, she was poor, pregnant and an illegal immigrant. She worried about how she would pay for medical care and raise her baby, and even whether a trip to the hospital might prompt her deportation to Mexico.
But when she plunged into a postpartum depression in 2003 after the birth of her daughter, the first of three children, a hospital social worker referred her and her husband to an East Harlem social service agency that has counseled them and helped them get care for their family and get the government assistance their children were eligible for as American citizens. 
''I think I very am lucky,'' Eulogia said in an interview this week, asking that her last name not be used because she still fears deportation. She said most illegal immigrant parents felt tremendously isolated and did not have ''the confidence to ask for help.''
Indeed, a recently published study of the early development of children born to illegal immigrants in New York City suggests that most stories that begin like Eulogia's do not end as well.
Even though the children have citizenship and live in an immigrant-friendly city that offers them a wide array of services, many are still hobbled by serious developmental and educational deficits resulting from their parents' lives in the shadows, according to the study, whose author says it is the most comprehensive look to date at the effects of parents' immigration status on young children.
''The undocumented are viewed in current policy debates as lawbreakers, laborers or victims -- seldom as parents raising citizen children,'' wrote the author, Hirokazu Yoshikawa, a Harvard education professor who has published the study as a book, ''Immigrants Raising Citizens'' (Russell Sage Foundation, 2011).
Professor Yoshikawa found that by the time the children of illegal immigrants reached age 2, they showed significantly lower levels of language and cognitive development than the children of legal immigrants and native-born parents.
''Millions of the youngest citizens in the United States, simply by virtue of being born to a parent with a particular legal status, have less access to the learning opportunities that are the building blocks of adult productivity,'' he wrote.
The implications for the nation are potentially far-reaching and long-lasting, he said, considering that of all preschool children of illegal immigrant parents in the United States, an estimated 91 percent -- four million children -- are American citizens.
Poor cognitive development can lead to lower school performance, which in turn can lead to higher dropout rates, an undertrained work force and lower economic productivity. ''Ignoring these children has costs for society,'' Professor Yoshikawa warned.
He and his team began their research by visiting maternity wards at public hospitals around New York in 2004 and getting permission to study nearly 400 babies newly born to Chinese, Dominican and Mexican parents, as well as to native-born African American parents. The researchers, who were affiliated with the Center for Research on Culture, Development and Education at New York University, followed the children for three years.
The researchers found that poor immigrants cannot afford learning materials or stimulating programs in child care centers. Fear of deportation or ignorance about how the city works often prevents those parents from seeking help from government agencies that provide child care subsidies or food stamps.
Many illegal immigrants, particularly those belonging to newer immigrant groups, like Mexicans in New York, have smaller extended families or less-developed social networks than others, and therefore fewer people around to help raise children.
The psychological stress suffered by illegal immigrants -- many of whom work long hours for low wages and live in crowded, poorly maintained apartments -- can be transmitted to young children, the study says.
''Greater hardship among parents, both economic and psychological,'' Professor Yoshikawa wrote, ''can harm children's learning by lowering parents' active engagement with their children, the quantity or quality of their language or their warmth and responsiveness.''
In an interview, he pointed out that illegal immigrants' anxieties about seeking help -- and those anxieties' effects on children -- could be even worse in places with ''harsher'' immigration policies.
Eulogia, the East Harlem mother, said she was brought to the United States by her parents when she was 11 and lived in a succession of cramped apartments in New York. She helped her parents sell flowers on the street to make ends meet. Though she graduated from high school, she remained an illegal immigrant, and imagined that her own children would live the same kind of existence.
Little Sisters of the Assumption Family Health Service -- a community-based organization in East Harlem that provides counseling and other assistance to poor people, especially immigrants -- helped Eulogia and her husband get food stamps and enroll in the federal Women, Infants and Children assistance program. Her eldest daughter, now 7, receives after-school tutoring at the center, while her second child, a 2-year-old boy, is getting speech therapy. And the family has secured better housing.
In his book, Professor Yoshikawa extols the work of groups like Family Health Service.
''By bringing these families out of the shadows and providing them with access to better work conditions and learning opportunities,'' he wrote, ''we can ensure that the nation's most vulnerable young citizens have an equal chance to succeed in their early development, later schooling and adulthood.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giovanna Baca, a speech-language pathologist, works with Miguel Angel Arista Juarez at Little Sisters of the Assumption Family Health Service. It helps illegal immigrants and their children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); CHILDREN (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); WRITERS (88%); DEPORTATION (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PARENTING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (70%); DEPRESSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



672 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: An Investment Asks, How Much Can You Afford to Lose?

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
INVESTOR interest in private equity and debt offerings continues to increase a mere three years after these illiquid investments caused a lot of anxiety, if not substantial financial losses. The problem is there is little sign that investors are any more aware now of the risks involved in these deals than they were then.
At the beginning of the year, wealthy investors were abuzz over a private placement investment in Facebook, the social networking site. But deals that large are not the norm. Most private offerings, or placements, are smaller -- with minimum investments of $25,000 as opposed to the reported $2 million in the Facebook offering -- but carry the same high risks and high fees.
''We're starting to see more of it because more and more of our clientele are having the ability to invest in these sorts of things,'' said Drew Kanaly, chairman and chief executive of Kanaly Trust, which manages $1.8 billion. ''This is where they're going to see better returns going forward, but the pros and cons are tough.'' 
Jeffery and Linda Knippa, who now live in Point Venture, Tex., found this out the hard way. After coming into a modest inheritance and selling their home in Houston, they made two investments in private placements, in 2005 and 2007, that totaled $80,000. They say they did so on the recommendation of their broker, Don L. Devens, a registered representative of the broker-dealer Capital Financial Services. Their goal was to keep their money safe, they said, until they returned from Colombia, where Mr. Knippa was sent to work as an oil field engineer.
Instead, they lost their $80,000. The Knippas filed an arbitration claim against Capital Financial Services in November 2009 and are waiting for a hearing.
''We knew him through the Lutheran church, so we put our trust in him,'' Mrs. Knippa said.
Mr. Devens declined to comment. John Carlson, chief executive of Capital Financial Services, said he could not comment while the case was pending.
Regardless of the size of these deals, investors need to weigh many factors before getting in, including their willingness to lose the money they put in. Here is a look at the considerations:
LIKELIHOOD OF LOSS The reality is the Knippas should never have gotten into such a high-risk investment. They did not have the net worth to be what the Securities and Exchange Commission calls ''accredited investors'' -- those with at least $1 million in net worth or a $300,000 annual salary for a couple. Nor did they understand the potential downsides.
''We had no financial experience,'' Mrs. Knippa said. ''That was the reason we sought out Don.''
She said her husband was now working at an oil field in Baku, Azerbaijan, to rebuild their nest egg.
While private placements represent a tiny share of all investments, the number of arbitration cases involving limited partnerships, which is how some private placements are structured, has nevertheless increased in the last few years, to 80 in 2010 from 19 in 2007, according to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Andrew Abramowitz, a lawyer in Manhattan who has worked with both buyers and sellers of private placements, said every investor should approach a private placement skeptically.
''As long as the expectations are, 'I can lose this and I may not be able to sell it,' then nothing goes wrong,'' he said. ''That may not come to pass. People who are savvy about this do a bunch of them and hope one will pop.''
For those who do not understand this, the experience can be life-altering. ''We miss that $80,000 every day,'' Mrs. Knippa said. She said the remainder of their money was now in low-yielding certificates of deposit.
MEMBERSHIP IN THE CLUB There are many reasons the S.E.C. tries to limit private placements to accredited investors, but one of them is surely that they can afford to lose money.
Yet Andrew Stoltmann, a securities lawyer in Chicago who is representing the Knippas, said that there was not necessarily a link between wealth and financial sophistication, which would give you a fighting chance to assess one of these offerings.
''I know a lot of people who have $1 million or $2 million in net worth, but they don't know anything about investing,'' Mr. Stoltmann said. ''Think about a football player who signs a $30 million N.F.L. contract: he's an accredited investor, but he's not sophisticated with finance.''
These placements, then, are best reserved for a small group of people.
Karl Wellner, president and chief executive of Papamarkou Wellner Asset Management, said one of the things his firm did for clients was arrange ''clubby deals from time to time.'' These are private placements in their original form: led by people who have already made significant money in the area where they are investing and see an opportunity that requires them to raise money quickly.
Right now, Mr. Wellner's firm, which manages several billion dollars for 150 families, is helping to arrange a private placement that will invest $150 million in farmland in the United States. The attraction is the promise of steady returns in an asset class that has historically done well in both uncertain and inflationary times.
He arranged something similar after the construction markets collapsed in 2008. The firm put together a deal to buy and store various noble alloys used to make steel stronger. Their prices had fallen by 60 to 80 percent when construction dried up. But the family leading the deal had made its money in metals and believed the price would rebound.
Within two years, the 15 to 20 families who had contributed a total of $65 million had received a 40 percent return. ''There is a very real attraction to unique, boutique, clubby transactions that we often have access to,'' said Thorne Perkin, managing director at Papamarkou Wellner. ''But we're in the stay-rich business, not the get-rich business.''
Mr. Perkin has a point: if his clients lose millions in an investment, they still have plenty of money left. When couples like the Knippas lose $80,000, their lifestyle changes.
WHAT TO LOOK FOR Of course, investors will be attracted to promises of high returns just as surely as moths fly to a flame. When should they take a chance and when should they walk away?
Every adviser will say researching the deal and examining the track record of the managers are essential. This is easier said than done when limited information is available.
Mr. Kanaly said potential investors should make sure that the general partners had their own money at stake -- from 1 to 5 percent of the deal -- and should also understand how they will be paid out. ''You want to see a preferred rate of return for you until they meet their objectives,'' he said.
Mr. Abramowitz said investors should not have any illusions that they will have a say in how their money is managed. One warning sign is if the company is widely promoting its private placement. Such marketing violates S.E.C. rules.
Still, the lure of huge returns is strong. ''You can tell them it's illiquid, but making them understand that the money is locked up and gone is difficult,'' Mr. Kanaly said. ''Even if the return is higher, that lag to the first drink of water can be years. You have to be pretty wealthy to wait that long.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Abramowitz, a lawyer in New York, said private placements should be approached with caution. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ISSUES (90%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); ACCREDITATION (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: JAN CARLSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (75%) TEXAS, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (75%); AZERBAIJAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



673 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: States Seeking New Registries For Criminals

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE

 BODY:
Lawmakers around the country are pushing for online registries, like those used for sex offenders, to track the whereabouts of people convicted of a wide variety of crimes, from arson and drunken driving to methamphetamine manufacturing and animal abuse.
State senators in Illinois are considering a law to create the nation's first registry for first-degree murderers. In Maine, legislators are debating an online registry of drunken drivers. And proposals to register animal abusers have been put forward in several states; one such registry, in Suffolk County on Long Island, will become operational next week.
Under a canine version of Megan's Law, Virginia even registers dangerous dogs, including Elvis, a cat-killing collie in Roanoke whose bad acts are among those listed on the state's database.
Advocates for online registries, many of them searchable by the public, argue that people have a right to know about potentially dangerous offenders in their midst and that the benefit of alerting parents, neighbors and others in a community outweighs any privacy concerns. 
But as the registries proliferate, so do questions about their value. Critics say that while the registries are attractive to politicians who want to appear tough on crime, they often do little more than spread fear and encourage vigilantism.
The monitoring systems cost money at a time when recession-strapped states can ill afford the extra expense, the critics say, and their effectiveness is dubious: Sex offender registries, for example, have had little success in reducing repeat crimes, studies suggest.
Wayne Logan, a professor at Florida State University College of Law and the author of a recent book on registration and notification laws, likens the registries to ''legislative catnip.''
''You'd be hard pressed to find a more politically popular movement in recent years,'' he said. ''Whether it's actually good public policy is a distinct and independent question from whether it's politically popular and makes us feel good.''
Mr. Logan noted that once passed, the laws were difficult to remove because politicians did not want to seem to diminish the suffering of victims. Instead, they are added ''like Christmas ornaments on a tree, year after year.''
The New York State Senate voted 57 to 4 on Tuesday for a violent offenders registry. In Illinois, the murderers registry bill passed the House in April by a 97-to-1 vote. The legislation is now before the Senate.
Representative Monique Davis, the lone member of the Illinois House to oppose the law, said that although she favored the state's sex offender registry, ''I just don't think that a murderer registry is of much value to anyone except those getting paid to set it up.''
She noted that the recidivism rate for murder was very low to begin with and that the state, facing a deficit of more than $4 billion, could not afford the cost of another registry.
But voting against such a measure, she said, is ''very difficult to do, because sometimes the public perceives you as being soft on crime.''
Representative Dennis Reboletti, the main sponsor of the House bill, said that it ''would allow not only law enforcement, but also the community to know who resides here, who our family members are associating with and who our children are dating.''
''These are people who are lying in wait,'' Mr. Reboletti said in a phone interview. ''It's cold. It's calculated. It's planned over time. And it's one of the most evil things that somebody can do on this earth.''
The inspiration for the murderers' registry, as for many such laws, was a high-profile crime, the 1998 murder of Andrea Will, an 18-year-old freshman at Eastern Illinois University who was strangled by her ex-boyfriend, Justin Boulay. Convicted before Illinois adopted a truth-in-sentencing law, Mr. Boulay was paroled from prison after serving half of a 24-year sentence, a turn of events that Ms. Will's mother, Patricia Rosenberg, said she saw as ''a slap in the face.'' She was even angrier when Mr. Boulay promptly moved to Hawaii to join the medical school professor he had married while in prison.
''I felt like I had to do something because I never felt justice was served,'' Ms. Rosenberg said in a recent phone interview.
She consulted with Mr. Reboletti on the idea for the legislation, known as Andrea's Law. The law would require registration for 10 years after the offender is released from prison. It would affect 300 to 500 convicted first-degree murderers on parole in Illinois, Mr. Reboletti said, and 3,000 more who at some point will be released from prison.
A spokesman for the Illinois State Police, which would establish and maintain the registry, said the cost would depend on whether it could be built onto the state's existing registries for sex offenders and child murderers, as some legislators have proposed, or would have to be created from scratch.
In Maine, concerns about cost have also been raised about the registry for drunken drivers. State Representative Gary Plummer, a Republican, said establishing any new registry was ''prohibitively expensive.''
''I haven't even gotten to the point of considering is it fair to put people on this type of registry, when we don't have the resources'' to do it, he said of the drunken driver bill, adding that he had also opposed proposals for arsonist and animal abuser registries as too costly.
Perhaps the biggest question about criminal registries is how effective they are in preventing offenders from committing future crimes.
Jill Levenson, an associate professor of psychology at Lynn University in Florida, who has written extensively about sex offender registries, has noted that Department of Justice figures suggest that only 13 percent of new sex crimes are committed by known sex offenders, and that such crimes are at least six times more likely to be committed by other types of offenders who do not appear on any sex offender registry.
Only a handful of studies have so far examined the effect of registry and notification laws for sex offenders on recidivism, Dr. Levenson said, but ''so far, the vast majority of those studies do not show a decrease in repeat sex offenses that can be attributed to sex offender registry or notification.''
Murderers have among the lowest rates of recidivism. Only about 1.2 percent of convicted murderers go on to commit another murder within three years of their release; roughly 35 percent commit other types of crimes within the same time period.
But in Ms. Rosenberg's view, if even one murder is prevented by notifying the public it is worth it.
''Would it be more plausible if you thought they would commit four, five, six, seven murders?'' she asked. ''I think any life, one life, is worth saving.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The early release of Justin Boulay, who killed his ex-girlfriend in 1998, prompted Illinois to push for a murderers' registry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG LAWHEAD/CHARLESTON TIMES-COURIER)
 Virginia tracks dogs that have been declared dangerous. (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (90%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (89%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (89%); MURDER (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); RECIDIVISM RATES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); ARSON (78%); DOGS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); ANIMAL WELFARE (72%); METHAMPHETAMINE (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); WRITERS (64%); CHRISTMAS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



674 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: For Gay Employees, An Equalizer

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
The battle to legalize same-sex marriage may be dominating the headlines, but that issue could take years to resolve. More immediately, a growing number of companies have taken it upon themselves to make life a little more equal for their gay employees.
These companies are reaching into their own pockets to pay for an extra tax that their gay employees owe on their partners' health insurance -- something that their married heterosexual co-workers don't have to worry about because the federal government recognizes them as an economic unit.
To gay employees, gaining equal benefits is about more than the money. The gesture itself validates their relationship with their partners at a time when the government has not.
Most heterosexuals take for granted that they can add a spouse or children to their employer's health plan. But gay employees with partners have that option only if they work for an organization that offers domestic partner coverage. 
And even when the coverage is available, it costs gay couples more because they are taxed on the value of those benefits.
Over the last year, however, as the word has gotten out about this inequity, more companies have begun to ''gross up'' these workers, as the policy is known.
''It very quickly became a litmus test among employees for how welcoming their firm was,'' said Daryl Herrschaft, director of the workplace project at the Human Rights Campaign. ''A lot of folks were very proud of their companies and wanted to tell a lot of people, and in doing so, it sparked some competition.''
The competition has become most apparent in a handful of industries, notably law firms, big consulting companies and in Silicon Valley. More Wall Street firms, meanwhile, are said to be considering the policy. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, the New York law firm, is the latest firm to follow suit. And Teach for America, the nonprofit teaching program, adopted the policy earlier this month after initially learning about it on Bucks, the personal finance blog on The New York Times Web site, which has been singling out the companies that gross up and those that do not -- the New York Times Company among them.
''We realized that it was the right thing to do and we were in a position to do it, so we did,'' said Rex Varner, vice president on the human assets team at Teach for America.
A small number of organizations, including Kimpton Hotels and Cisco, have had the policy in place for several years. But it wasn't until Google started compensating its employees last June that the movement really began to take off. Apple, Facebook, Barclays, McKinsey and Bain & Company are some of the prominent names that followed suit.
Even more companies have said they publicly support same-sex marriage or equal financial treatment for gay couples, but they haven't gone as far as adopting the policy.
About 58 percent of Fortune 500 companies extend domestic partner coverage to employees with same-sex partners, according to the Human Rights Campaign. But when you look at a broader group of companies, the numbers shrink: Only about 36 percent of large companies, or those with more than 200 workers, offered the coverage in 2009, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation survey. About 20 percent of small companies offered the coverage.
Even as the number of companies that ''gross up'' increases, they remain a distinct minority. (The online version of this column links to our running list of companies.) In fact, a large group of major corporations joined a coalition, led by the Human Rights Campaign, that supported legislation to eliminate the tax, but most of them don't gross up their own employees.
Another group of prominent business leaders recently signed an open letter urging New York lawmakers to legalize same-sex marriage, arguing that it would help attract and retain talent. But not everyone on that list, including Lloyd A. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, for instance, has started to gross up employees within their own offices. That would also, arguably, help attract and retain talent. Both Goldman and Morgan Stanley (whose board chairman, John J. Mack, also signed the letter) said they were reviewing their policies. So we'll see what happens.
One of the biggest obstacles to adopting the gross up policy has been concern about the cost and legal implications. Will people rush to sign up? Many firms, for instance, decided to make only same-sex employees with domestic partners eligible since opposite-sex couples have the option to marry.
''To spend money to make up for the inequities for our government and our governmental policies is a very significant thing,'' said Ross Levi, executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda, a gay rights organization in New York. ''Companies shouldn't have to be making up for the ways that government is failing its L.G.B.T. people and our families,'' he added, referring to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. That said, he added that the private sector had historically ''led government in terms of equality for L.G.B.T. people.''
Generally, it would cost an employer about $2,000 to $2,500 to gross up an employee who incurred extra taxes of $1,200 to $1,500, according to Joseph S. Adams, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery who specializes in employee benefits. The numbers will vary depending on several factors, including the employee's tax bracket and state of residence. This example assumes a 25 percent federal tax bracket (and includes rough estimates for state, local, and employment taxes for Social Security and Medicare, bringing the total tax rate to about 40 percent).
On average, a typical employee with a domestic partner will pay about $1,069 more a year in taxes than a married employee with the same coverage, according to a 2007 report by Lee Badgett, research director of the Williams Institute, which studies sexual orientation policy issues. (That figure, which is bound to be higher now given escalating health care costs, includes taxes on the benefit itself as well as the money employees would save if they could pay for their benefits using pretax dollars like heterosexual employees can. There is an exception: If the partner is considered a dependent, the extra taxes aren't levied.)
At Barclays, which began compensating gay employees at the beginning of the year, the team working on the policy considered how it might affect their expenses. But when Barclays looked at the numbers, they concluded the cost was ''not material.'' And, in any case, they said it was the right thing to do.
''Too often people come with ideas requiring creativity and people start explaining obstacles about why you can't do it,'' said Jeffrey G. Davis, managing director and co-chairman of Barclays' L.G.B.T. employee group. So they worked with their human resources department to find ways to make it as simple as possible. Instead of reimbursing employees in every paycheck, for instance, they provide a lump sum at the end of the year.
His advice to others who want to lobby their own employers is to ''anticipate peoples' concerns and questions before you go to them for approval, so you have the right answers.''
''That is the biggest part of the effort,'' he said.
The Human Rights Campaign has materials on its Web site to help guide employees and their companies through the process, too.
With more companies adopting the more generous policy, others are now looking at whether they're offering the basics for gay employees. As Cynthia Yeung, a San Francisco resident who is on the steering committee of her employer's L.G.B.T. group, put it, ''When you raise the bar, everyone has to jump a little higher to be average.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rex Varner and Lora Cover, officials with Teach for America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); COHABITATION (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); LAWYERS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (84%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); BAIN & CO (60%); GOOGLE INC (50%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (54%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (81%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



675 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Fears About Consumers Send Shares Tumbling

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Signs that consumer demand may be weakening led to a broad sell-off in stocks Friday, setting the market on course for its third week of losses.
The retailers Gap Inc. and Aeropostale each lost more than 14 percent after cutting their profit forecasts for the year, in part because of higher costs for raw materials. Gap's sales have been sluggish, a worrying sign for investors who are counting on shoppers to lead a recovery in consumer spending.
Gap's results pushed down other clothing companies that have been hit hard by the rising price of cotton and the reluctance of shoppers to splurge. Polo Ralph Lauren and J. C. Penney each dropped over 4 percent, while Urban Outfitters fell more than 3 percent. 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 93.28 points, or 0.74 percent, to 12,512.04. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.33 points, or 0.77 percent, to 1,333.27. The Nasdaq composite index fell 19.99 points, or 0.71 percent, to 2,803.32.
One exception to the gloom among retailers was the bookseller Barnes & Noble, which jumped nearly 30 percent after Liberty Media offered to buy the company for $1 billion in cash.
A stronger dollar also hurt stocks. The dollar rose against the euro after the Fitch ratings agency downgraded Greece's debt three notches further into junk status, escalating worries about the European debt crisis.
For the week, the major indexes each declined less than 1 percent.
In recent months, markets have fallen when the dollar rises against the euro because the stronger American currency has signaled that European countries are still struggling to get their debt under control.
''A stronger dollar and a stronger U.S. market can coincide, but not when the U.S. economic data are weak,'' said Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist for Prudential Financial. ''This has been a stronger dollar that has come because of another currency weakening, not a stronger U.S. economy.''
Concerns about the strength of the economy pushed government bond prices higher as investors sought out safer assets. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 7/32, to 99 26/32, and the yield fell to 3.15 percent from 3.17 percent late Thursday.
Oil prices settled at $99.49, up $1.05, after trading lower most of the day on new signs that demand for gasoline is falling. Even as most energy stocks fell, Anadarko Petroleum jumped 4 percent on hopes that the company would owe less than expected to the oil giant BP for its part in the Deepwater Horizon disaster.
BP said it would receive a $1 billion payment from Moex, which owned a 10 percent stake in the Macondo oil well in the Gulf of Mexico. The settlement was for a smaller amount than Moex investors feared, and suggested that Anadarko, which owned 25 percent of the well, would also pay less to BP.
BP's stock rose more than 2 percent on expectations that other companies will share costs related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
There were two notable exceptions to the downward trend. The software company Salesforce.com rose almost 8 percent after its first-quarter profit beat expectations. Netflix, the movie rental and streaming company, gained 1.3 percent. In Europe, shares moved lower late in the session. The FTSE 100 index of leading British shares ended 0.1 percent lower, and Germany's DAX was off 1.2 percent. The CAC 40 in France was down 0.9 percent.
The euro fell on Friday 0.75 percent to $1.4203.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BOOKSTORES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); BONDS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (74%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); EURO (70%); DEBT NOTES (70%); EURO CRISIS (70%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); OIL SPILLS (64%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (63%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (60%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (60%)

COMPANY: GAP INC (93%); BP PLC (81%); URBAN OUTFITTERS INC (56%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (53%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (51%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (93%); BP (NYSE) (81%); BP (LSE) (81%); URBN (NASDAQ) (56%); PRU (NYSE) (53%); APC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (81%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (53%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (51%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (51%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



676 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Adapting to the Reality of Everyday Video Chatting

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
WHEN I was young, people marveled at the idea of making a phone call and actually seeing the person you were talking to.
But like individual jet packs, it seemed a futuristic concept that was always just around the corner, but would never actually arrive.
Well, the future may be now. Videoconferencing, Skype and similar technology are not new, but neither have they been widely used by the average consumer or business. That's changing, though.
''I think we've hit a critical mass,'' said Rick Osterloh, head of Skype's consumer product management. This month, Microsoft announced that it planned to buy Skype, the leader in Internet and voice communication, for a staggering $8.5 billion.
So why is the technology taking off now? What exactly are the options out there? 
And, perhaps more important, what impact will this have besides requiring more people who work at home to change out of their pajamas?
First, a primer on what we're talking about. There are all sorts of choices out there for those who want to talk face-to-face without being in the same room. Philipp Karcher, a researcher at Forrester Research, helped me sort them out.
First, there are desktop platforms that allow face-to-face video chats and Web conferencing, among them Skype, MSN Messenger, Google and Yahoo Messenger.
Skype is by far the largest, claiming 170 million users. Calls are free unless they involve more than one person or are from a Skype user to a non-Skype user.
Companies like Fring, Tango and Qik (which has been acquired by Skype), also allow video calling between smartphones and from mobile devices to desktops. Apple, through Facetime, offers video calling between Apple devices.
Just to give you an idea of the popularity of such a concept: the first day Skype began offering video calls on iPhones, on Jan. 1, users placed one million video calls from their mobile phones.
Next is the idea of room-based videoconferencing. ''A lot of people invested in it over the last 20 years,'' Mr. Karcher said. That consists of a camera on a screen allowing groups of people to talk to and see each other. Companies are now replacing or upgrading these systems with high-definition systems.
And the ''corporate jet of videoconferencing'' is Telepresence, which as much as possible immerses people in a lifelike situation, using multiple cameras and screens and specially designed rooms.
Such technology will probably be slower to catch on, Mr. Karcher said, since the cost is high. Telepresence can cost up to $400,000 a room.
Finally, there is virtual life, which is used most frequently to allow people to virtually attend conventions and conferences. It creates worlds where people -- sometimes in the guise of avatars -- can ''visit'' these places and wander around just as they would at a real conference.
The reason we're finally seeing video calls and conferencing grow so rapidly, Mr. Osterloh said, was ''the pervasive adoption of broadband and PCs and really powerful smartphones.''
''Whenever technology is first introduced, you see a strong inertia toward using what you're comfortable with,'' he said. ''And, of course, there are times you don't want to see people face-to-face and times you don't want to do video calls, but generally we've seen a huge demand for more and better.''
And as more and more people are telecommuting and not working in the same office -- or state or country -- there's more of a need to find other ways to communicate.
My first reaction is to be wary of yet another tool that stops us from getting together in person.
''The more communications channels to the world in our living room, the less likely we are to leave the living room,'' said Thomas Lewis, an assistant clinical professor at the University of California, San Francisco School of Medicine and a practicing psychiatrist.
Dr. Lewis has used video chats to treat patients in other locations for quite a while, he said, and finds it better than doing it over the phone. But the disconcerting thing, he said -- as others have mentioned -- is that the current technology means one is rarely looking eye to eye.
Because the camera on a desktop is at the top of the screen, if you actually look directly at your video partner, it appears that you're looking down.
''When someone doesn't look us in the eye, the brain deduces this as someone being less likable, less confident and less honest,'' Dr. Lewis said. ''This is problematic in trying to create business relationships.''
Even though intellectually we may know this is simply a technological quirk, deep down in our brains it's hard to overcome feelings of suspicion when someone doesn't look you straight in the eye, he said.
But this is less likely to be a problem with someone we know and trust, like family members, he said. ''When I go on business trips and Skype home to talk to the kids, I find it tremendously rewarding.''
Much of the newer technology has made us more socially distant. Video chats, on the other hand, while not necessarily as satisfying as old-fashioned human contact, do allow people to see each other and read body language.
Nonetheless, we will need to learn new methods of business communication as face-to-face -- but not person-to-person -- meetings become more common, said Judith Olson, a professor of informatics at the University of California, Irvine.
A business traveler flying to India for a meeting, for instance, would probably learn some basic cultural practices to avoid offending the host, Ms. Olson said. The same is true for an Indian coming to the United States.
''We have a saying, 'When in Rome, do as Romans,' '' she said. ''But if I'm videocasting, whose Rome am I in? Whose cultural norms do we take on?''
One way to try to ease into a friendlier atmosphere through videoconferencing is to build in time to chit-chat, she said. When people go to live meetings, they tend to engage in small talk before getting down to business, and often find some common ground that makes everyone feel more comfortable -- and more likely to trust each other.
That is not done in videoconferencing, and should be, she said.
No one, however, seems to think that in-person meetings are a thing of the past.
One New York investment banker, who asked that I not use his name since he was not an official spokesman for his company, said 90 percent of his clients were located outside the United States and while he was traveling less, he was still spanning the globe for meetings.
''I'm in an industry that necessitates a lot of handshaking, and human capital is our investment,'' he said. While videoconferencing and chats help in developing ideas long-distance, ''at pitch time it makes sense to fly the senior people over to show we're involved and interested.''
Paradoxically, the ability to easily talk to people thousands of miles away may have created distance from those who are geographically closer to us.
Rosanna Guadagno, an assistant professor of social psychology at the University of Alabama, has studied and used video communications for a long time and says she thinks it's over all a net gain. But, she said, we do lose something.
''Close social ties might not get strengthened as much,'' she said. ''I talk with people across the world, but I don't know my neighbors next door.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kelly Bush, center, of ID Public Relations in Los Angeles, has a videoconference meeting with members of her staff in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIDEO CONFERENCING (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECONFERENCING (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (70%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (68%)

COMPANY: SKYPE SARL (92%); GOOGLE INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (71%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (71%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



677 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LOWER EAST SIDE JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: In an Unlovely, Old Market, Bonds Run Deep

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Several things to note about the Essex Street Market on the Lower East Side. Unlike its glamorous uptown peers, the factory-chic Chelsea Market and the glossy food palace that is Eataly, it is more Plain Jane than beauty, with utilitarian flooring and generic signs that announce each vendor while screaming municipal ownership.
It is a place where one can visit a botanica, buy a hot-tub-themed cake or order a breakfast platter called ''Pig Newton'' off a 500-item menu. It opened in 1940, many years before the word ''artisanal'' was used adjectivally to describe that staple of all self-respecting city markets: handmade cheese. 
What is shared by the market's 20-odd merchants -- who include an Uzbek barber, Korean and Dominican grocers, a young Greek ex-lawyer-turned-baker and the irascible Kenny Shopsin, creator of the aforementioned platter -- is a deep connection to their airy, if unlovely, space. The red brick building, at the northeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets, has been a home to vendors since the day it opened.
There is a sizable chance, however, that the Essex Street Market will be moved in the coming years, as part of a long-discussed plan to build shops and mixed-income apartment buildings on the property and the city-owned parking lots across the street, a project called the Seward Park Urban Renewal Area.
The city's Economic Development Corporation, which manages the market, has promised to ease the transition for vendors should the market move. Options will be explored at a community board meeting on Wednesday.
For the merchants, the prospect elicits an array of reactions, from dismay to denial to ambivalence. Dismay, as felt by Anne Saxelby, of the much-feted Saxelby Cheesemongers: ''It you have a vibrant, community-oriented marketplace that fell on hard times and is now going great, it just doesn't seem like something you want to mess with.''
Denial, as expressed by Zack Shopsin, son of Kenny: ''I don't think it's moving anyway.''
Ambivalence, as exhibited by Ira Stolzenberg, 62, proprietor of the Tra La La juice bar and Rainbo Fish, and a baker of theme cakes, who has been at the market for 38 years: ''The buzz is it's not supposed to happen for at least five years, and by that time I'll hopefully be retired.''
What is certain is that a move would disrupt the delicate ecology of the place, where relationships among vendors have been forged, and forced, by close proximity and the simple fact that nearly every shop is essentially an open-air indoor stall.
To wit: the friendship that has blossomed between the market's newest vendor, Rona Economou, 33, and Luis Batista, the 53-year-old Dominican who opened Batista Grocery there 18 years ago. Ms. Economou opened her wee 7-foot-by-7-foot Greek food stall, Boubouki, last July, after losing her job at a Midtown law firm. Mr. Batista's grocery and produce shops share a corner with Ms. Economou's space. When her refrigerator started to break down, Mr. Batista and his son, Luis Jr., quickly offered her space in theirs. After Mr. Batista noticed that Ms. Economou rarely had time for a break, he began sharing his lunch, which his wife prepares, with Ms. Economou every day.
On Wednesday, lunch was yucca, avocado and cod. ''You ate?'' Mr. Batista asked Ms. Economou as he walked by, a smile creasing his face. ''I did. It was great,'' Ms. Economou replied. She beckoned him over, and threaded a yellow freesia, presented to her by a customer, through his lapel.
Around them the market bustled, with regulars slipping easily into their well-worn routines.
Nearby, Jesus Dumois, 78, a retired ambulette driver from Cuba, was perched on the seat of his rolling walker, just outside Formaggio Essex. Six days a week for 10 years, Mr. Dumois has traveled, by bus and in a pained shuffle, to this spot from his home in the Jacob Riis houses on Avenue D. He sits all day long, happy amid the market's buzz.
At the southern end of the market, Kenny Shopsin rested his large frame on a small padded bench outside his restaurant, Shopsin's General Store. If the Essex Street Market is, as Ms. Saxelby says, ''oddly like Sesame Street,'' Mr. Shopsin is its resident Grouch.
The market's property manager, George Otero, describes him as the ''Essex Street Nazi,'' and Mr. Shopsin certainly competes with Jerry Seinfeld's Soup Nazi for causticity. As unsuspecting customers have learned, a request for a different table leads to no table, or service, at all. (The New Yorker's Calvin Trillin penned an ode to Mr. Shopsin in 2002, before he moved his restaurant to the market from Greenwich Village.)
Nevertheless, his shop does just fine, and he and his son are not exactly publicity hounds anyway.
''I'd like to chat with Kenny about the market possibly moving?'' this reporter asked Zack Shopsin last week.
''No,'' the younger Mr. Shopsin replied.
''Can I just...''
''NO!''
Ms. Economou is among the many vendors who have benefited from Mr. Shopsin's unpredictable wrath, as his exiled customers, still hungry, have been known to drift over to her stall. She has yet to sample Mr. Shopsin's wares but hopes to soon, when she is feeling brave, and her business slows a bit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Grocery and produce stands at the Essex Street Market, at the northeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets. Redevelopment may force the market, home to vendors since 1940, to move. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CHEESE SHOPS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); CHEESE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



678 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: A Summer to Simmer

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Wow. What a week.
This week we lurched back and forth between the prurient and philosophical, between personal egos and our national ethos, between Schwarzenegger and Strauss-Kahn and President Obama and his considered-but-contentious vision of a new Middle East.
But, interestingly enough, this week's big news, both high and low, has no more legs than last week's fake furor over a rapper reciting poetry at the White House or the week Osama bin Laden was killed in a Pakistani safe house. 
The one true constant in this country for the foreseeable future, and the issue that'll likely consume the summer, is the economy. As a Gallup poll reported earlier this week, ''Three in four Americans name some type of economic issue as the 'most important problem' facing the country today -- the highest net mentions of the economy in two years.'' Only 4 percent each mentioned ''ethics/moral/religious/family decline; dishonesty'' or ''wars/war (nonspecific)/fear of war.''
For the poor and unemployed struggling to land a job and provide some family security, the sexual exploits of rich sexagenarians may provide a moment of socio-economic schadenfreude, but it'll do nothing to salve the long-running, underlying angst.
For the powerless and voiceless making choices between bills and food, articulating a more coherent North African and Mideast policy that doesn't sacrifice our moral standing to our strategic interests may feed the soul, but not the stomach.
For far too many Americans, this will not be a summer for the silly or even democratic existentialism. This will be yet another summer to simmer, yet another summer to wonder when the recovery that now wafts freely between the Temples of Greed on Wall Street will make its way to the half-barren bungalows on Main Street, yet another summer to see just how little regard ''job creators'' -- a favorite Republican term of art for the G.O.P.'s corporate Geppettos -- have for the American people who built this country.
Take these recent examples:
As The New York Times reported last Friday, health insurers are reporting record profits for the third year in a row as people postpone or forgo care. Yet the insurance companies are still pressing for higher premiums.
And who among the insured is cutting back on needed health care? Many doing so are seriously ill.
According to a July 2009 report from the Kaiser Family Foundation entitled ''Health Care and the Middle Class: More Cost and Less Coverage'': ''Nonelderly adults with medical debt are almost twice as likely to have an ongoing or serious health problem compared to others with private coverage. Unfortunately, the privately insured who have medical debt are also as likely as the uninsured to postpone care, skip recommended tests and treatments and not fill drug prescriptions -- any of which can lead to more serious illness and even disability, which are difficult and costly to treat.''
In short, we as a country may pay for these companies' profits later with a sicker population.
Also last week at a hearing of the Senate Finance Committee about oil subsidies, John Watson, C.E.O. of Chevron -- which reported last month that first-quarter net income rose 36 percent from the same period last year to $6.21 billion -- said that ''I don't think American people want shared sacrifice. I think they want shared prosperity.'' The problem is, Mr. Money Bags, that you and other corporate interests are the only ones sharing in the prosperity. For Americans on the lower end of the income spectrum, it's all sacrifice.
And a USAToday/Gallup poll released earlier this week found that nearly 7 in 10 said that higher gas prices were causing financial hardship, more than half said that they ''have made major changes'' to compensate and 21 percent said that the impact is so dramatic that ''their standard of living is jeopardized.''
And lastly, The Wall Street Journal reported last week on some 40 states that use prepaid debit cards to issue payments like unemployment benefits and child support. Turns out, the banks love these cards because ''they largely escaped the recent crackdown by U.S. lawmakers and regulators on fees, interest rates and billing practices for credit and debit cards.''
So the fat-cat bankers are allowed to fleece the most needy and most vulnerable in the most outrageous of ways. Some charge fees for checking the balance on the card, others charge high withdrawal fees, and the most callous even charge an ''inactivity fee'' when the recipient doesn't use the card. According to The Journal, one bank executive said of his bank: ''Prepaid debit cards and other products will help the company recover roughly half of the revenue likely to be lost from swipe-fee rules being written by regulators.'' How do these people sleep at night? On pillows stuffed with cash, no doubt.
This summer has the potential to be another turning point for the electorate, and it's not necessarily pegged to the performance of the president. It may hinge largely on the callousness of conservatives and their seemingly inexorable desire to overplay their hand.
This may be the summer that we see more clearly that the working class has developed a lingering sense of disillusionment, that right-wing politicians have developed an unshakeable immunity to empathy and that corporations have developed a taste for blood squeezed from turnips.
And it may be the summer for seeing through the right-wing squawk machine that hopes to distract us from the damage the rich and the right are doing by manically hurling torches at the Obama administration to see if something catches fire.
This week, Representative Paul Ryan, a Republican of Wisconsin, suggested to the Economic Club of Chicago that the president's attempt to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans amounted to ''class warfare'' and promoted ''class envy.'' Ha! The war is already being waged against the poor and vulnerable, and the envious have-nots didn't start it. The right and its cabal of economic cannibals did.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Across the Board: Top five most important problems, by political party. (Source: Gallup Poll conducted May 5-8 of 1,018 adults nationwide) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (84%); INSURANCE (84%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ETHICS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (56%); RELIGION (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (72%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



679 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman Takes His Potential Campaign for Test Drive in New Hampshire

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
HANCOCK, N.H. -- Jon M. Huntsman Jr. knows how to speak Mandarin Chinese. He knows how to ride a motorcycle. He knows how to play keyboard in a rock band. He is trying to pick up one more skill: how to run for president.
For the past 21 days, since returning from his post as ambassador to China, Mr. Huntsman has been hunkered down with a team of advisers to study the intricate details of campaigning for the Republican nomination. He is displaying what he has learned during a five-day New Hampshire visit, an ambitious trip designed to introduce him to voters and introduce his family to the obstacle course a presidential race entails.
The transition to becoming a presidential candidate can be steep for the most seasoned politicians. But after spending two years in Beijing, the learning curve is even more abrupt.
''Compare and contrast where we've been for the last two years,'' he said, reflecting on a stop at a house here. ''The thought that you can just walk in and be surrounded by members of the free press, who can take what you say and do whatever they want with it, and to have neighborhood folks show up and ask random questions, it's the quintessential American experience.'' 
He was twice elected governor of Utah -- a point he reminded voters of again and again -- but he has spent the past two years in China, where he could not practice the art of politicking. Everywhere he went on Friday, he was trailed by a large swarm of photographers, reporters, bloggers and curious onlookers, who made it impossible for him to audition in obscurity.
Mr. Huntsman, 51, is the newest potential contestant in the Republican presidential field. He told voters that he was in the ''diligence phase'' and would decide in June whether to declare his candidacy and fight for the chance to challenge President Obama, who sent him to China.
''It's an intimidating and daunting thing, particularly when your daughter gets lost among a sea of reporters and you have no idea how it's going to turn out,'' Mr. Huntsman said Friday at one of many points when he seemed to be thinking aloud. ''It might sink our enterprise absolutely instantaneously.''
His enterprise seemed to be staying afloat during his inaugural trip to New Hampshire, which holds the first-in-the-nation primary, which he sees as the best place to take on Mitt Romney. He chatted easily with voters, blending small talk (''Are we going to play pool?'' he asked as he walked through a V.F.W. club) with a more serious discussion about the challenges ahead (''Our debt level is shipwrecking the country,'' he said).
While he traveled to South Carolina two weeks ago to deliver a graduation address, the trip to New Hampshire provided the first opportunity for Mr. Huntsman to give a window into what his campaign themes would include.
He endorsed the concept of turning Medicare into a voucher-based system to help contain the nation's debt burden. He called for a new industrial revolution to make America competitive again and to spur economic growth. He rarely mentioned Mr. Obama's name -- and issued a call for civility -- but he offered criticism of the president's decision to intervene in Libya, saying that future military engagements should be carefully weighed based on their financial cost.
''It's an affordability issue,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''With all of our deployments and all of our engagements abroad, we need to ask a fundamental question: Can we afford to do this? That should be driven by the second point, which is whether or not it's in our national security interest.''
In a brief question-and-answer session with reporters, where Mr. Huntsman stood in a living room here on Antrim Road, he outlined elements of a foreign policy agenda for the first time since he started contemplating a presidential bid. He said that he did not believe the humanitarian threat was significant enough in Libya to warrant intervention by the United States.
''We could be responding to corners of the world constantly if that were the motivating criteria,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''I think we have to be very careful about where we choose to spend our money.''
He recoiled at the notion of being described as a moderate Republican, a label born out of his endorsement of civil unions for gay couples, support for the president's economic stimulus program and his support for expanded immigration rights.
''We've got to get beyond this tag mentality where everybody's described as being this, that or the other,'' Mr. Huntsman said. ''It's artificial, it's superficial and it's misleading.''
When asked to describe himself, he declared: ''I'm not going to give myself a label. I can say I'm a pragmatic problem solver.''
But in conversations with voters, Mr. Huntsman presented himself as a sunny alternative to the Republican field. If he decides to run, he will test whether the party has an opening for a candidate who sits in the middle, rather than the right, of the Republican spectrum.
The plan is ripped from the playbook of Senator John McCain's campaign in 2000 and the early parts of his 2008 race, including many of the same advisers who surrounded Mr. Huntsman on Friday. (The stops also included the exact houses and V.F.W. halls visited by Mr. McCain.)
Mr. Huntsman, who served as a national chairman of the McCain campaign four years ago and often traveled here with the senator, is almost entirely unknown outside of a small circle of Republican operatives. He drew modest crowds -- at times smaller than his entourage -- but interviews with several voters suggested that he made a good impression.
''He brings things to more of an adult level than we've seen and heard,'' said Ted Leach, a retired newspaper publisher. ''He showed a global view -- not just the usual tripe about how we have to reduce spending. He understands how all the pieces fit together.''
With his wife, Mary Kaye, and two of his seven children at his side on Friday, Mr. Huntsman showed signs that he was well prepared from his presidential campaign boot camp.
He showed self-deprecation (''I'm the margin of error guy,'' he said, when asked about his standing in the polls). He exhibited local knowledge, noting that he was aware that the state's Veterans Affairs hospital had closed. And he demonstrated that he knew voters were not inclined to love at first sight. (''From what I've been told, it takes more than a handshake, it takes more than a single conversation,'' he said with a smile.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who is considering a run for president, answered questions in Keene, N.H., during a tour of the state.
 Mr. Huntsman, who resigned this year as the ambassador to China, spoke at several homes across New Hampshire. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



680 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Backing Her Man With Impressive Resources

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and MAIA DE LA BAUME

 BODY:
PARIS -- She was much more famous than her husband, and much wealthier, too.
Now she joins the unhappy club of wives standing by their man in the face of a crescendo of tales of sexual betrayal, spurred in her case by extraordinary and tawdry criminal charges of attempted rape of a hotel maid.
When Anne Sinclair married Dominique Strauss-Kahn in November 1991, she was a famous television journalist, her brown hair and steely blue eyes a fixture on the most popular interview show in the country, called ''7/7.'' She did over 500 interviews, including of presidents like Francois Mitterrand, Mikhail Gorbachev and Bill Clinton, as well as Hillary Rodham Clinton as first lady, and stars like Yves Montand and even Madonna. The show attracted as many as 12 million viewers every Sunday.
The 1991 marriage was a love match -- Mr. Strauss-Kahn had been married twice before and had four children, and she had been married once and had two children of her own. The New York-born child of a family who fled to America to escape the Nazis, and of a father who had the code-name ''Sinclair'' in the French Resistance, she insisted on a Jewish ceremony after the legal exchange of vows in a Paris city hall. 
And as a measure of her beauty and fame, she was married in a room with a bust of Marianne -- the symbol of freedom and republican pride in France -- that was modeled on her. Her face was not only on most French televisions, but in every city hall.
The two met, predictably, on a television set in 1989. Michel Taubmann, who wrote a recent biography of Mr. Strauss-Kahn timed for a possible presidential campaign, said: ''She was subjugated by his intelligence and charm.''
She quit her show after 13 years to avoid a conflict of interest when her husband became finance minister in 1997. She herself became deputy director of channel TF1 and later, director general of its Internet arm. ''When you spend 13 years interviewing politicians,'' she said then, ''you aren't fascinated by power anymore.''
Still, she was the driving force behind Mr. Strauss-Kahn's political ambitions, and her wealth, inherited from her grandfather, the art dealer Paul Rosenberg, enabled the couple to live lavishly and independently, with two extraordinary apartments in Paris, a $4 million house in Georgetown and a riad in Marrakesh.
She also helped finance a group of political advisers, press aides and Internet sites that were preparing the ground for what was soon supposed to be a triumphant return to France for Mr. Strauss-Kahn, to begin a race for the presidency many thought he would win.
''She always wanted to prove that, 75 years after Leon Blum, the French were capable of electing a Jew,'' a friend told Le Monde. ''In her eyes, that would be a formidable revenge on history.''
But her close friend of many years, Alain Duhamel, said in an interview that ''she feared the campaign a lot -- she knew it would be a great sacrifice in her way of life.'' She and her husband considered their religion, he said, ''a practical question for the campaign,'' not some great cause.
Repeated efforts to contact Ms. Sinclair, through her friends and spokeswoman, both here and in New York, where she flew to see her husband, were unsuccessful.
THE same age as her husband, 62, she was born Anne-Elise Schwartz. Her father, Joseph-Robert Schwartz, legally took the name Sinclair a year later, in 1949; her mother, Micheline Nanette Rosenberg, was painted by Picasso, who called her ''Michou.'' From Mr. Rosenberg, one of Picasso's early champions, the family inherited part of a collection of paintings worth many millions of dollars. Just one Matisse, ''L'Odalisque, Harmonie Bleue,'' was sold in 2007 at Christie's for $33.6 million.
Ms. Sinclair is on the board of the Picasso Museum in Paris and is writing a book about her grandfather and his life. She graduated from the Institute for Political Studies in Paris and in law from the University of Paris, beginning her career as a radio journalist for Europe 1.
Elie Wiesel was a close friend of Ms. Sinclair and her first husband, the Hungarian-born journalist Ivan Levai, whose mother brought him to France as a child and was then deported, killed by the Nazis. Mr. Levai, who was hidden in the French countryside, once called her ''too beautiful for me.'' The couple's second son, Elie, is named after Mr. Wiesel.
''She was charming, intelligent, famous in the best sense of the word,'' Mr. Wiesel said. ''She was a combination of Charlie Rose and Barbara Walters, very well read, very well prepared.''
But there is no way to prepare for the kind of purgatory Ms. Sinclair has entered since her husband's arrest a week ago on charges of attempted rape. She was in Paris awaiting the birth of her first grandchild when, according to Paris Match, she got a call from her husband about 11 p.m., or 5 p.m. in New York, just after the police pulled him off an Air France plane about to leave the gate.
Her face turned pale. He reportedly told her there was ''a serious problem.''
On Sunday she issued a statement unreservedly backing her husband and saying that she did not believe the charges against him, and then flew to Manhattan, where she has undertaken to pay Mr. Strauss-Kahn's $1 million bail and the other costs associated with it -- including an apartment, an electronic bracelet and armed guards provided by a company authorized by the court.
''I don't believe for a single second the accusations of sexual assault by my husband,'' she said. ''I am certain his innocence will be proven.''
BUT she is already learning the hard price of intense media attention. Having taken two apartments in a building where rents can run to $14,000 a month, she was told that her husband was not welcome there. For now, he is staying in quarters provided by the company that is in charge of his security.
There is no doubt that Ms. Sinclair was aware of her husband's skirt-chasing, but in public, at least, seemed not to care. Asked in 2006 by L'Express if she suffered from his reputation as a womanizer, she said: ''No! I'm even proud of it. It's important to seduce, for a politician. As long as he is still attracted to me, and I to him, it is sufficient.''
Mr. Duhamel said that Mr. Strauss-Kahn's behavior was talked about among her friends, but not with her. ''This is something she didn't want to hear,'' he said. ''Her choice has always been that of passionate solidarity with him.''
The largely unexamined history of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's relationships was highlighted in 2008, when he was investigated by the International Monetary Fund for abuse of power when he had an affair with a married Hungarian economist, Piroska Nagy. The bank concluded that the affair was consensual and rebuked him, but he kept his job. He hired a public-relations firm and issued a statement regretting the affair and apologizing to Ms. Sinclair.
She then wrote on her blog -- ''Two or three things seen from America'' -- that ''everyone knows that those things happen in couples' lives; this one-night adventure is behind us.''
In his letter of resignation from the I.M.F., written from jail, Mr. Strauss-Kahn said, ''I think at this time first of my wife -- whom I love more than anything -- of my children, of my family, of my friends.''
Mr. Wiesel expressed sadness for Ms. Sinclair. ''There is a Talmudic saying, 'No one is the owner of his instincts,' '' he said. ''But controlling them, that is civilization.''
On April 30, Ms. Sinclair wrote about the wedding of Prince William. ''I can understand those who didn't miss a crumb. As if, quite simply, we were like children who, before going to sleep, want a tale, a story with a princess and a dream, because real life catches up with you soon enough. ...''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anne Sinclair is the driving force for Dominique Strauss- Kahn's political ambitions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
 ANNE SINCLAIR (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (76%); WRITERS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (61%); ART DEALERS (60%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (57%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: TELEVISION FRANCAISE 1 - TF1 SA (52%)

TICKER: TFI (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



681 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Was LinkedIn Scammed?

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
If there's one thing we've all learned in the aftermath of the financial crisis, it's that stiffing your client is not a crime. Not if you're an investment bank.
Deutsche Bank, according to a recent report by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, sold its clients subprime mortgage bonds that one of its own traders at the time described as ''pigs.'' Goldman Sachs took unseemly advantage of unsuspecting clients to offload its most toxic assets in 2007 and 2008. During the subprime bubble, this kind of behavior was par for the course.
It still is, apparently. On Thursday, LinkedIn, an Internet company that connects business professionals, became the first major American social media company to go public. The company had hired Morgan Stanley and Bank of America's Merrill Lynch division to manage the I.P.O. process. After gauging market demand -- which is what they're paid to do -- the investment bankers priced the shares at $45. The 7.84 million shares it sold raised $352 million for the company. For this, the bankers were paid 7 percent of the deal as their fee. 
For a small company with less than $16 million in profits last year, $352 million in the bank sounds pretty wonderful, doesn't it? But it really wasn't wonderful at all. When LinkedIn's shares started trading on the New York Stock Exchange, they opened not at $45, or anywhere near it. The opening price was $83 a share, some 84 percent higher than the I.P.O. price. By the time the clock had struck noon, the stock had vaulted to more than $120 a share, before settling down to $94.25 at the market's close. The first-day gain was close to 110 percent.
I have no doubt that most everyone at LinkedIn was thrilled to see the run-up; most executives at start-ups usually are. An I.P.O. is an important marker for any company. And, of course, the executives themselves are suddenly rich. But, in reality, LinkedIn was scammed by its bankers.
The fact that the stock more than doubled on its first day of trading -- something the investment bankers, with their fingers on the pulse of the market, absolutely must have known would happen -- means that hundreds of millions of additional dollars that should have gone to LinkedIn wound up in the hands of investors that Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch wanted to do favors for. Most of those investors, I guarantee, sold the stock during the morning run-up. It's the easiest money you can make on Wall Street.
As Eric Tilenius, the general manager of Zynga, wrote on Facebook: ''A huge opening-day pop is not a sign of a successful I.P.O., but rather a massively mispriced one. Bankers are rewarding their friends and themselves instead of doing their fiduciary duty to their clients.''
There is nothing wrong with a small ''pop'' in the aftermath of an I.P.O.; investors, after all, don't want to buy a stock that is going to go down immediately. But during the Internet bubble of the 1990s, the phenomenon of investment bankers wildly underpricing I.P.O.'s so that money could be diverted to favored investors got completely out of hand -- stocks would sometimes rise 500 percent on the first day. It was obscene.
Indeed, most business journalists writing about the LinkedIn deal focused on the first-day run-up as evidence that we've entered another Internet bubble. But over at the Business Insider blog, Henry Blodget -- who knows a thing or two about bad behavior on Wall Street -- had the perfect analogy for what the banks had done to LinkedIn.
Suppose, he wrote, your trusted real estate agent persuaded you to sell your house for $1 million. Then, the next day, the same agent sold the same house for the new owner for $2 million. ''How would you feel if your agent did that?'' he asked. That, he concluded, is what Merrill and Morgan did to LinkedIn.
It's worth remembering that most of the young Internet companies with those eye-popping I.P.O.'s back in the day are long gone. With their flawed business models, maybe they were doomed from the start -- but the cash they left on the table at the I.P.O. might have allowed at least a few of them to survive.
Similarly, LinkedIn is still a fragile enterprise. Its business model remains unproved. It is going to have to grow awfully fast to justify its stock price. Its executives may yet rue the day they let themselves be sold down the river by their investment bankers. LinkedIn is supposed to be the client, but it was treated like the mark.
Ever since the financial crisis, investment bankers have been constantly questioned about whether they have any larger social purpose besides making money. What they invariably say is that they play a critical role in capital formation, meaning that they help companies raise the money they need to grow and prosper.
The LinkedIn deal suggests something darker. The crisis hasn't changed them a bit. They're still just in it for themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%)

COMPANY: LINKEDIN CORP (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: LNKD (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



682 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Who Should Run the I.M.F.? The choice should be based on merit, not geography

 BODY:
The arrest of Dominique Strauss-Kahn has turned the International Monetary Fund into front-page news and cast a harsh light on its dysfunctional workplace culture. Whoever is chosen to succeed Mr. Strauss-Kahn must be prepared to address both the European debt crisis and the institution's own problems. 
For 65 years, all of the fund's managing directors have been chosen from the wealthy industrialized countries of Europe. That tradition, along with the United States choosing the president of the World Bank, may have fairly reflected the economic geography of 1946. But it does not reflect today's world, and powerful new players like China, India and Brazil rightly resent it.
Both jobs ought to be filled on merit alone, with a strong emphasis on technical and diplomatic competence and managerial skills. That should not exclude qualified Europeans, but neither should it guarantee them the job.
European governments are already lobbying for Christine Lagarde, who is now the French finance minister, a job Mr. Strauss-Kahn also held. The I.M.F. has been led by French managing directors for 36 of its 65 years. That is too clubby for an institution whose main business has been to persuade foundering governments to undertake unpopular economic reforms in exchange for loans.
Even before the Strauss-Kahn scandal, the fund had a reputation among many of its female staff members as a workplace that failed to police unwanted amorous advances and other forms of harassment. The next managing director will have to make zero tolerance the rule.
Ms. Lagarde, who would be the first woman to hold the job, has the experience and many other strong qualities. But there are other talented candidates to consider, including Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Singapore's finance minister and chairman of the I.M.F.'s financial committee, and Arminio Fraga Neto, a former head of Brazil's central bank and an architect of that nation's successful economic reforms. Voting on the governing board is weighted by historic economic heft. So if the European Union lines up behind Ms. Lagarde, no single developing-world alternative emerges and Washington backs Europe's choice, there may be no real contest. It would be better for the I.M.F., and for the winner, if there was.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); GEOGRAPHY (75%); LOBBYING (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EURO CRISIS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (92%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



683 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
NEWSPAPER IN PAKISTAN
PUBLISHES WIKILEAKS CABLES
Pakistan's leading English-language newspaper, Dawn, began publishing a selection of more than 4,000 American diplomatic cables obtained from WikiLeaks, opening a window onto the American-Pakistani relationship and domestic politics never before seen there. PAGE A7
QUEEN CONCLUDES IRISH VISIT 
Queen Elizabeth II wrapped up her groundbreaking four-day visit to the Irish Republic, a trip that ranked among the most politically freighted of her almost 60 years on the throne. While the queen has no formal political power, her visit -- the first by a British monarch -- offered powerful symbols of reconciliation. PAGE A4
MUGABE VOWS TO RUN AGAIN
Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, one of Africa's longest-serving leaders, declared that he intended to run for president this year at the age of 87, and live to be 100. PAGE A5
JAKARTA'S PLAN TO SAVE FOREST
Indonesia released the details of a $1 billion program to curb forest destruction and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but environmentalists said the plan gave industry too much leeway to continue clearing vital ecosystems. PAGE A5
KILLINGS TERMED GENOCIDE
The Georgian Parliament voted to recognize the 19th-century killings and deportations of ethnic Circassians by czarist Russia as genocide, a move that is likely to inflame tensions between the two countries. Moscow is extraordinarily sensitive to any anti-Russian movements in the North Caucasus. PAGE A5
National
FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT TO LIE
ABOUT MILITARY SERVICE
The Stolen Valor Act is a 2006 law that makes it a federal crime to lie about being a military hero. But some federal courts have said it violates the right to free speech. PAGE A10
BAD SEASON FOR STINK BUGS
As the temperatures rise and stink bugs emerge from their winter quarters,entomologists say, the infestation could prove even worse this year, with the bugs making their way beyond the Mid-Atlantic and into new areas of the country. PAGE A13
New York
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS' CHILDREN SUFFER, DESPITE CITIZENSHIP
Even though they have citizenship, many American-born children of illegal immigrants are still hobbled by serious developmental and educational deficits resulting from their parents' lives in the shadows, according to a new study. Its author says it is the most comprehensive look to date at the effects of parents' immigration status on young children. PAGE A15
CATHOLIC LIFE AFTER COLLEGE
A nationwide pilot program aims to keep actively Catholic college students just as actively Catholic after they graduate. The program, Esteem, has operated from the contrarian premise that a college graduate who is suddenly reduced to being the young stranger in a new parish may well grow distant or even alienated from Catholicism. PAGE A15
Business
REGULATORS FIND FLAWS
IN DESIGN OF NEW REACTORS
In a setback for the only model of nuclear reactor for which ground has been broken in the United States, government regulators have found additional problems with the design of its shield building, a crucial component, the chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said. PAGE B1
EQUALIZER FOR GAY WORKERS
A growing number of companies have taken it upon themselves to pay for an extra tax that their gay employees owe on their partners' health insurance -- something that their married heterosexual co-workers don't have to worry about because the federal government recognizes them as an economic unit. PAGE B1
Arts
REMEMBERING THE TUNES
THAT BROKE BARRIERS
The singers and musicians in ''More Than a Song: The Music That Integrated America,'' a sturdy, thoughtful revue at the Allen Room, delivered emotionally connected performances that transcended a revue format. Stephen Holden, Music Review. PAGE C4
GARDENS OF ISLAMIC DELIGHT
The New York Botanical Garden's exhibition ''Spanish Paradise: Gardens of the Alhambra'' is an homage to the meditative pleasures of the 14th-century palace complex in Granada, Spain, including a modest reproduction of one of the Alhambra's fountains. Edward Rothstein, Exhibition Review. PAGE C1
Op-ed
JOE NOCERA PAGE A19
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); CHILDREN (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WRITERS (78%); EMISSIONS (72%); DEFORESTATION (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); BIOLOGY (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); GENOCIDE (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); PARENTING (69%); ENTOMOLOGY (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); DEPORTATION (65%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (63%); RESEARCH REPORTS (62%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRELAND (90%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); GEORGIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



684 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Spontaneity Again Causes Mayor Trouble

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Javier C. Hernandez contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Responding to a lawsuit seeking to prevent New York City from closing 22 poorly performing schools, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg made a comment on Friday about parents of children in those schools that immediately prompted outrage.
''Unfortunately there are some parents who just come from -- they never had a formal education, and they don't understand the value of education,'' Mr. Bloomberg said during his weekly appearance on WOR-AM (710). ''Many of our kids come from families -- the old Norman Rockwell family is gone.''
The schools in question are filled with poor, minority and immigrant students, including many who are homeless. 
Bill de Blasio, the city's public advocate, called the mayor's comments ''profoundly disrespectful'' and urged him to apologize.
Kenneth D. Cohen, an executive of the N.A.A.C.P., a plaintiff in the suit, which was filed Wednesday, lamented what he called Mr. Bloomberg's broad-brush description of parents ''who look like the majority of parents in city schools.'' Zakiyah Ansari, a parent organizer with the Alliance for Quality Education, an umbrella organization that is also part of the suit, said she was insulted.
''How dare he say we don't know what we're talking about!'' said Ms. Ansari, whose organization represents more than 200 parent, teacher and student groups. ''How dare he assume that because we're poor or black or Latino or homeless or all of the above, that we're uneducated, that we don't know what's best for our kids!''
The comment was just the most recent through which the mayor, a multibillionaire, seemed to unwittingly demonstrate his distance from many of his constituents. During his re-election campaign in 2009, Mr. Bloomberg remarked that President Obama ''doesn't get paid that much'' (at $400,000 a year, his salary is more than seven times the median household income in New York). While much of Brooklyn and Queens remained buried in snow from the blizzard late last December, he insisted that ''the city is going fine,'' noting, ''Broadway shows were full last night.'' And in February, many were aghast when he joked that he was used to seeing ''people that are totally inebriated hanging out the window'' of the American Irish Historical Society.
Regarding Friday's radio show, Marc La Vorgna, a spokesman for the mayor, said Mr. Bloomberg was trying to point out that there were ''vastly different requirements'' for education in today's economy, where a college diploma is all but essential for success, than there were in previous generations.
During the show, Mr. Bloomberg recounted a conversation he had with a mother who told him that her child went to a great school. ''How do you know?'' the mayor said he asked her. The mother's reply: ''The teacher told me.''
''I said, 'But you just told me the child's not learning how to read,' '' Mr. Bloomberg recalled. ''Well, the objective of a school is not to be great, it's to produce great results.''
Schools Chancellor Dennis M. Walcott said the mayor's comments had nothing to do with ''race or immigrant status,'' adding, ''It's really connected, quite frankly, to what I've been talking about all along, that parents and families know what's happening in their child's school and that they're engaged.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HISTORY (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011



685 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Slap Shot)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; hockey

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Big Splashes on N.H.L.'s Big Stage

BYLINE: JEFF Z. KLEIN and STU HACKEL


HIGHLIGHT: Over the years, some N.H.L. players have made early and unexpected impacts in the playoffs.

 BODY:
The biggest story in the Stanley Cup playoffs last week was Tyler Seguin, the second overall choice in the entry draft last June, who, after an undistinguished rookie season, was inserted into Boston's lineup for Game 1 against Tampa Bay and scored Boston's only goal. Three nights later, Seguin got two more and two assists, leading Boston to a 6-5 win.
It is unusual, but not unprecedented, for a player to make his first big splash in the playoffs, the most difficult level of play. In fact, the playoffs have been the launching pad for some notable careers.
Probably the most famous was that of the Hall of Fame Montreal goalie Ken Dryden, who played most of his first pro season in the American Hockey League before the Canadiens summoned him at the end of the 1970-71 campaign. He played six games, then backstopped the Canadiens to the Stanley Cup, winning the Conn Smythe Trophy as the most valuable player in the playoffs before his official rookie season the next year.
Four seasons earlier, Montreal summoned another rookie goalie, Rogie Vachon, from the Central League as a midseason injury replacement. He got into 19 games, then started all but one of the Canadiens' 10 playoff games. Montreal lost the Cup to Toronto in the finals, but Vachon won six of his nine starts, earning a job in the N.H.L. that included one Stanley Cup as the Canadiens' starter and, later, full-fledged stardom in Los Angeles.
In the 1961 playoffs, the Rangers lost the first two games to Toronto when they called the future Hall of Famer Rod Gilbert from Kitchener-Waterloo of the Eastern Professional Hockey League. He played on a line with Dave Balon and Johnny Wilson, and they scored three goals as the Rangers won. Two nights later, he scored twice and set up Balon for the game winner as the Rangers evened the series. Toronto won the semifinal round in six games, but Gilbert notched five points in four games to begin his run with the Broadway Blues.
The man who finished the longest Stanley Cup game, Modere Bruneteau, who was nicknamed Mud, split the 1935-36 season between the Red Wings and their Detroit farm team in the International League. He had only two goals in his first 24 N.H.L. games, but he ended more than nine periods of scoreless hockey in his first Stanley Cup game on March 24-25 with a goal against the Montreal Maroons at 116 minutes 30 seconds of overtime. He became a regular after that, a three-time Cup champion and the Red Wings' co-captain during a 10-year N.H.L. career.
Jets Still Circling
A report on The Globe and Mail's Web site Thursday that an agreement had been reached to relocate the Atlanta Thrashers to Winnipeg set off a celebration into Friday morning at that city's major intersection, of Portage and Main. Hundreds of fans wearing vintage Jets jerseys and waving Jets flags whooped and chanted "Let's Go Jets" as cars drove by honking horns, all cheering the return of the N.H.L. after a 15-year absence.
Some major aspects of the story - that a deal had been concluded and would be announced by the league on Tuesday - were swiftly denied by the N.H.L., the Thrashers and True North Sports and Entertainment, which has been in negotiations to buy the team from the Spirit of Atlanta Group.
But with no buyer to keep the team in Atlanta, it appeared that the franchise's relocation was inevitable. The mayor of Winnipeg, Sam Katz, said Friday that the move was just "a matter of time." He added: "There is no doubt that the fan base is there. The corporate support is there."
One partner in True North is David Thomson, chairman of Thomson Reuters, with a personal net worth estimated at $19 billion to $24 billion.
Nevertheless, the fiscal realities of a team in Winnipeg, Manitoba, may not be sunny.
With a population of fewer than 750,000, the region would be the league's smallest. The MTS Centre seats 15,005, which would make it the smallest arena in the N.H.L.
The corporate community in Winnipeg is not large, and economic growth, brisk in recent years, has turned flat. The Canadian dollar, worth 65 United States cents when the Jets moved in 1996, is roughly at par now. But if the loonie, as it is known, were to falter again, costs would escalate for a new team in Winnipeg.
Asked on the Montreal radio station the Team 990 if a new Winnipeg team would prosper, Stephan Brunt, who wrote The Globe and Mail article, alluded to Thomson.
"I think they probably will, you know?" he said. "They've certainly got a pretty deep-pocketed sugar daddy."

        
Answers About the Stanley Cup Playoffs
        
Ask About the Stanley Cup Playoffs
        
Role Players Help the Lightning Strike Twice in Playoff Series
        
Teams That Score First in Playoff Games Are Tough to Beat
        
Three Veterans Having Impact in Postseason

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); CELEBRITIES (75%); RELOCATIONS (60%) Stanley Cup playoffs; Hockey, Ice; Stanley Cup; National Hockey League

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); MONTREAL CANADIENS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%) National Hockey League

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (88%); DETROIT, MI, USA (76%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%) QUEBEC, CANADA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%); GEORGIA, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



686 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: The Privacy Challenge in Online Prize Contests

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: Two new online prize contests raise the same privacy challenges that scuttled a second Netflix $1 million competition a year ago.

 BODY:
Two big new prize contests just getting under way take a page from the innovative, exciting competition run by Netflix. In a nail-biting finish in the fall of 2009, the movie rental service paid $1 million to a global team of data mavens, who just edged out another group, in most improving its online film recommendations.
The Netflix contest was celebrated as a triumph for the company and as a catalyst for bringing new techniques to data analysis. But in 2010, Netflix was forced to cancel a planned second prize because of privacy concerns. Two researchers showed that the supposedly anonymous data from the first contest could be used to identify customers. That eventually brought an inquiry from the Federal Trade Commission and a lawsuit. So Netflix shelved its plans for a second contest.
Earlier this month, Overstock.com, an online retailer, announced it would sponsor a $1 million contest to the person or team that could most improve its product recommendations. And a few weeks earlier, the Heritage Provider Network, a medical group in California, released the data and the details for its $3 million contest. Its prize will go to the team that comes up a technique for most accurately predicting which patients will be admitted to hospitals in the next year.
Both contests, like the Netflix competition, require contestants to come up with predictive algorithms, using anonymized personal data as the test bed.
So how to avoid a Netflix-style privacy blowup in the new contests?
Darren Vengroff, chief scientist at Rich Relevance, a start-up that develops recommendation technology for online retailers, has a plan. Rich Relevance is running the RecLab Prize, with Overstock putting up the $1 million.
Mr. Vengroff's strategy involves limiting the number of contestants who receive real customer data, with names and other identifying information stripped off. In the early round of competition, teams will instead get a hypothetical data set.
Then, in the semifinals (10 contestants) and finals (down to three), he explains, the competing algorithms will be running on real customer data. But that customer data will reside on Rich Relevance's computers, in a private "cloud" environment. That is a different approach than the model used by Netflix, which released the anonymized data to contestants.
Mr. Vengroff, who called the Netflix contest "tremendously valuable" for elevating the field of data analysis, said the privacy model in his contest was far more secure.
The organizers of the $3 million Heritage Health Prize, it seems, are counting on Arvind Narayanan. He was one of the two researchers who took the Netflix data, and showed it could mined and massaged to identify customers.
Heritage has put Mr. Narayanan on its advisory board. Today, he is a postdoctorate researcher at Stanford University and a scholar at Stanford's Center for Internet and Society.
Mr. Narayanan said he had not yet finished his report for the Heritage prize organizers, so he would not speak of that contest in detail.
But Mr. Narayanan did have some advice for any company or institution that wanted to use anonymized personal data for research. "Be honest and ask nicely," he said. Handling personal data on the Web, even when stripped of personally identifying information like names and credit card numbers, is a risk management game.
"There are privacy risks, even if they are small," he said.
Mr. Narayanan points to the consent request to use anonymized personal data for medical research by 23and me, the genetic testing service, as a model of candor.
As sensitive as people understandably are about personal health information, Mr. Narayanan suggested that it might be easier to protect privacy in the Heritage prize contest than it was for Netflix.
Each anonymized account in the Netflix database, he recalled, had an average of more than 200 movie ratings or reviews. "That's a lot of behavioral information," rich in clues to identity, Mr. Narayanan said. "There are many subtle differences in different kinds of personal information."
Two

        
The Economics of Privacy Pricing
        
U.S. Agencies Plan a Public Forum on Location Services
        
Who Could Become the Data Sheriff?
        
New York Attorney General Subpoenas Sony
        
Sony Explains PlayStation Attack to Congress

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); HOSPITALS (67%); HEALTH CARE (67%) Heritage Health Provider Network; Netflix Prize; overstock.com; Privacy; Stanford University; Contests and Prizes; Netflix Inc; California; Netflix Inc|NFLX|NASDAQ; Advertising and E-Commerce; Internet; Online Marketing

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%) Netflix Inc

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (91%) Netflix Inc; NFLX; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (91%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) California

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



687 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Your tip sheet for Sunday's political talk shows.

 BODY:
From Medicare to the debt ceiling, budgets deals and proposals are the main topic of conversation on the Sunday talk shows.
Representative Paul Ryan's plan to revamp Medicare has put the entitlement program back under the spotlight and will be discussed on C-SPAN's "Newsmakers" this week. Dr. Donald Berwick, administrator for the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, will appear on the program to talk about the alternative futures of Medicare under the Obama administration and under Mr. Ryan's plan.
ABC's "This Week" nabbed an exclusive sit-down with George Mitchell, the former special envoy for Middle East peace, for his first interview since leaving office. He will explain why he walked away from negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians and offer insight on the chance of a peaceful resolution in the region. Later, King Abdullah II of Jordan will talk about the prospects for Middle East peace and the recent Arab Spring.
Newt Gingrich, former Republican congressman from Georgia and speaker of the House, will appear on CBS' "Face the Nation" to discuss recent events that have threatened his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.
Representatives Mike Rogers and C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, members of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, will weigh in on improving intelligence gathering in the wake of the Arab Spring on CNN's "State of the Union." Senator Dick Durbin, Democrat of Illinois and majority whip, will then talk about the reduction of the "Gang of Six" to a group of five and the fragile status of bipartisanship on Capitol Hill.
And from the other party, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican leader of Kentucky, will give an update to "Fox News Sunday" on how the Senate will recover from the "Gang of Six" breakup.
Herman Cain, business owner turned Republican presidential aspirant, is next up for the "2012/One on One" series on "Fox News Sunday" to discuss his likely campaign for the White House.
He won't be running for reelection in 2012, but Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and House Budget Chair, will be speaking to NBC's "Meet the Press" about the fiscal proposals that have caused a stir among critics in both parties.
Austan Goolsbee, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, will join TV One's "Washington Watch" to discuss the potential impact on the nation's economic recovery if Congress can't agree on a deal that would raise the debt ceiling. Later, Dr. Cornel West will explain his recent criticism of the president, and why he said "Barack Obama has a certain fear of free black men."
Univision's "Al Punto" will feature a sit down with Anders Fogh Rasmussen, NATO secretary general, to talk about global issues that directly affect the United States. He will answer questions about the aftermath of Osama bin Laden's death and the military operations in Libya.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); CAUCUSES (72%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MEDICAID (58%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (58%); C A DUTCH RUPPERSBERGER (58%); MIKE ROGERS (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (55%); RICHARD DURBIN (55%); MITCH MCCONNELL (54%); HERMAN CAIN (51%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); ISRAEL (79%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



688 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Former Pizza Executive Joins Presidential Race

BYLINE: ERIC LICHTBLAU


HIGHLIGHT: Herman Cain, who made his fortune pitching soda, burgers and pizza before turning to politics late in life, declared himself a candidate Saturday for something that few others seem to want these days: the Republican nomination for president in 2012.

 BODY:
Herman Cain, who made his fortune pitching soda, burgers and pizza before turning to politics, declared himself a candidate on Saturday for something that few others seem to want these days: the Republican nomination for president in 2012.
At a noontime rally at a park in Atlanta, his hometown, Mr. Cain, 65, whose conservative fiscal credentials have made him a favorite among some Tea Party backers, promised "a real vision" to confront the nation's growing economic and foreign policy problems.
And he vowed to prove wrong the "doubting Thomases" who regard him as a long shot. "I'm not running for second!" he shouted to cheers from several thousand supporters, as he laid out "the Cain doctrine" for promoting economic growth and protecting national security.
In a stylish video that accompanied his announcement, Mr. Cain offered few specific proposals but instead relied on sweeping, Reaganesque themes and allusions to God's role in America as he promised what he called "a new American dream."
"We can turn this country around," he said. "We will make this country great again."
Mr. Cain, who has never held public office, hopes to leap headlong into a Republican race that is as notable for who is not running as who is.
Big names like Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor; Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi; and Donald J. Trump, the businessman and reality TV star, recently announced that they would not seek the Republican nomination to run in the general election next year against President Obama.
Sarah Palin, a former governor of Alaska, has yet to declare her intentions. But the rest of the field is slowly coming together. Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota, is scheduled to declare his candidacy on Monday in Iowa. Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, has opened an exploratory campaign and is aggressively raising money. Jon M. Huntsman, a former Utah governor and United States ambassador to China, is considering entering the race and Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana has said he will announce his plans soon.
While other possible contenders have skipped many of the early events this year, Mr. Cain has been aggressively crisscrossing the country and trying to build name recognition among a public more familiar with the company he once ran, Godfather's Pizza, than with the candidate himself.
A graceful public speaker with a deep baritone voice, Mr. Cain has spoken at dozens of Tea Party rallies. In March, he attended a forum in Iowa that marked his informal kickoff to win the state's delegates, and he was one of just five second-tier hopefuls who took part in a Republican presidential debate in South Carolina this month.
Mr. Cain's early supporters are hoping that his plainspoken speaking style, his up-from-the-bootstraps life story, and his success in business will appeal to conservative voters.
The son of a chauffeur and a domestic worker in Georgia, he graduated from Morehouse College, a historic black college, with a degree in mathematics, and he earned a master's degree at Purdue before joining the Navy. He then began his rise in the corporate world, first at Coca-Cola and then at the Pillsbury Company, where he was an executive overseeing Burger King and chief executive at Godfather's Pizza.
His first venture into national politics was almost accidental. At a nationally televised town hall meeting in 1994, he challenged President Bill Clinton's health care plans and their potential effect on businesses. When Mr. Clinton assured him that the proposal would not harm businesses, Mr. Cain answered that "in the competitive marketplace, it simply doesn't work that way."
He used his newfound prominence among conservative groups to become more outspoken in politics, hosting a radio show in Atlanta, writing books on political themes and losing a 1994 Republican primary for the United States Senate in Georgia.
Nearly two decades after his televised run-in with Mr. Clinton, Mr. Cain will probably use his opposition to President Obama's health care plan as one focal point of his campaign in railing against what he called "an out-of-control federal government that spends recklessly, taxes too much and oversteps its constitutional limits far too often."
At Saturday's rally, he also pledged to cut corporate tax rates and make permanent the tax breaks enacted under President George W. Bush. He also said he would push for new energy policies to make the United States less dependent on foreign oil, protect Israel's interest in the Middle East and pursue tougher immigration policies to secure American borders.
He drew perhaps his loudest cheers when he praised Arizona's controversial immigration law, which gives state officials more power to move against suspected illegal immigrants, and condemned the Obama administration's decision to sue the state over the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); REALITY TELEVISION (50%) Elections; The Caucus

COMPANY: GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BRAD HENRY (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



689 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: The Math of Heartbreak

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOKOLOVE. 
Michael Sokolove is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Levittown, Pa.
WHEN he first introduced cuts at a public meeting last month, Samuel Lee, the superintendent of the Bristol Township School District, was plainspoken and direct. He did not say that everyone would pull together and the children would get the same great education, but, rather, that worthy programs would be dismantled and young teachers would lose jobs. ''Everything that is going to be presented tonight is not good for our kids,'' he said as about 300 teachers, parents and students looked on. ''We are heartbroken.''
I grew up in blue-collar Levittown, and have written about it several times for this newspaper as a window into national sentiment. The community was deeply skeptical of Barack Obama early in 2008, then voted for him in huge numbers in the fall. In 2010, the local Democratic congressman was turned out of office amid a wave of national anger over the economy. 
Over the past several weeks, I have watched as local officials and community residents confronted a budget shortfall that threatens to reverse hard-won gains in schools that once performed poorly. But I did not hear much of the polarization, argumentation and point-scoring that the cable news universe reflects as the totality of our civic discourse. In Levittown, this time around, the mood is one of sadness, loss and resignation. ''We're all struggling in this community,'' W. Earl Bruck, an electrician, and chairman of the board's budget committee, told those at the meeting. ''I can tell you that I've been out of work for 56 weeks.''
Levittown was once ringed by industrial giants: United States Steel, 3M, Vulcanized Rubber and Plastics. Its language is relentlessly concrete. It is about the job. The hourly wage. What it takes to get ahead -- or fall behind. Mr. Bruck said he found it ''wrenching'' to cast a vote that would lead to layoffs.
The Bristol Township School District, one of three that educates Levittown children, draws students from the lower end of town. It has never been quite the educational wasteland that some of its neighbors in mostly prosperous Bucks County, just north of Philadelphia, might imagine. Although few of the district's students qualify for or can afford the nation's most prestigious colleges, about 70 percent of its graduates in recent years have continued their educations, many of them in community college or in Pennsylvania's web of state colleges.
And there are pockets of excellence. For the past year, I have been working on a book about one of them: the drama program at Harry S. Truman High School, one that against all odds is perhaps the best in the nation. (The high school and its longtime drama director, Lou Volpe, were chosen to stage the first high school production of ''Rent,'' to see if it would work at that level; several years before, when Truman piloted ''Les Miserables,'' the Broadway and West End producer Cameron Mackintosh arrived in Levittown by limousine to see the production.)
One thing I noticed right away while following this vaunted program: Sometimes a student, even one of the leads in a production, will walk offstage in the middle of rehearsal, pull on his uniform for Chick-fil-A or some other local business, and leave. No objections are ever raised. Here, where the unemployment rate hovers around 10 percent, well above the national average, a paycheck is paramount. People may not be surprised or angry that the school district is in dire straits because, well, that's where they are too.
''Our youngsters used to work so they could drive a car and pay their insurance,'' said Palmer Toto, who began teaching English at Truman High in 1969 and is now director of its guidance department. ''Now we have some who are working 30 hours a week, and they're contributing it to the household income.''
Bristol Township faces a nearly $10 million shortfall for next year in a total school budget of $123 million, figures that place the community in circumstances common to hundreds of school districts across the nation. They are facing steep cuts in state education financing and depressed local tax revenue, in part from home foreclosures.
Fifty-one percent of Bristol Township's students qualify for free or reduced lunch. When schools were first measured under the No Child Left Behind act, the district scored near the bottom of state rankings. Through smaller class sizes and more intense attention given to lagging students, it is now near the middle. ''The knock on our schools was you couldn't get a good education here,'' James Moore, the principal at Truman High, told me one recent afternoon. ''Nobody can say that anymore.''
It is that progress, though, that is threatened. In a preliminary budget passed by the school board, as many as 28 of the 125 teachers at Truman High could lose their jobs. Double periods for struggling math and English students -- credited for the district's better test scores -- would no longer be possible. Advanced Placement courses might be combined with regular honors classes. Art and music at the elementary level would be cut back.
No parents who spoke at public meetings scapegoated teachers, though that could still happen in the weeks before the budget becomes final late in June. Beginning teachers in Bristol Township are paid about $40,000, and seasoned ones can make about $100,000; they belong to a local chapter of the National Education Association, one of the last big unions of any kind still standing in the Levittown area. The teachers' union has been asked give up a 3 percent pay raise due next year, a concession that would likely save only some of the jobs even if it is agreed to.
The discussions I heard over the school budget sounded much like a couple talking around their kitchen table with a stack of bills, no hope of paying them and nothing but bad options. Mr. Lee, the superintendent, called the shortfall ''catastrophic'' and added, ''What's worse, I can't promise things will get better next year.''
At the public meeting in late April, and another this month, parents spoke of the budget cuts as if they would lock the community into a kind of cycle. One said that the adults in Levittown struggle economically, so would cutting back on education not condemn the children to the same fate? ''Probably,'' said Mr. Bruck, the board's budget chair. Another parent asked: If the schools start failing again, who is going to want to move into all those foreclosed houses? No one offered an answer to that.
Kevin McCann, a senior at Truman High and a saxophonist in the band, told the board that he had developed his passion in his elementary school music classes. ''I think education is about finding out what you want to do in this world,'' he said.
He also said he had hoped to attend Vanderbilt University, because he ranked near the top of his class. ''I thought I had done everything I could,'' he said. ''But it's a hard school to get into. I didn't make it.'' He said he felt that he was not admitted because Truman's course offerings were not rigorous enough.
Parents in Bristol Township do not generally have the means or, in some cases, the inclination to pay for art or music lessons for their children, or for prep courses and academic enhancements common in wealthier communities. As in many blue-collar towns, the schools are counted on to round out children -- to educate them in the basics, push gifted students higher, pull up the lagging ones, and to give everyone a degree of culture and a vision of what exists beyond the horizon. It's a big, expensive job.
''You want to be able to say that the amount of money you have to work with doesn't matter, and you can do the same quality job with less. And we can try to do that,'' Mr. Lee said as we talked in his office. ''But in what other enterprise is that true?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IMPERILED: A school budget meeting in Levittown, Pa., was full of sadness, not anger.(WK1)
Sour Note: Kevin McCann, a Truman High senior, feels the courses weren't rigorous enough.
 Deficit: Shannon Midzak , a math teacher in Levittown, Pa., which faces painful cuts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SABINA LOUISE PIERCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (53%)

TICKER: X (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (75%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



690 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2890 words

HEADLINE: Mountain Music by the Mile

BYLINE: By SARAH WILDMAN. 
SARAH WILDMAN is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.

 BODY:
IT starts with a well-worn fiddle, held in equally well-worn hands above a tapping black cowboy boot. Then in comes the banjo, plucked with steel finger picks, followed by the autoharp, the mandolin, the percussive beat of an upright bass. Another banjo grabs the melody, and suddenly the room is bursting with knee-slapping, country-porch music. A man in a crisp checked shirt gets up and starts to dance, bouncing out a complicated bumbumBAM bumbumBAM with his feet, moving as smoothly as a Martha Graham dancer, hitting the floor on the downbeat.
It is Thursday night in Fries (pronounced freeze), Va., population 600, on the wide New River. In the century-old Fries Theater, the silk wallpaper, once a glorious aquamarine embossed with gold ferns, is faded. A sign promises movies for 10 cents, 25 cents on weekends, but there hasn't been a film here in years. The Fries high school closed in 1989 after the cotton mill that gave birth to this hamlet in 1902 shut down. But where the economy has faltered, the local music culture is thriving. Take a drive through the dozens of one-stoplight towns that are planted along highways that twist through this region's blue hills and green valleys, and you'll find that music is the manna of the community. 
Fries was my first stop on the music trail known as the Crooked Road -- an official designation of the state of Virginia since 2004. The heritage of the path can be found in this dance, in that tune, learned by ear from house to house and passed down through generations. The Road isn't one single highway -- it's a roughly 300-mile series of interconnected two-lane byways and long stretches of Route 58, which skims Virginia's North Carolina and Tennessee borders all the way to Kentucky. The sound here is Appalachian: mountain music. Joe Wilson, who wrote a book on the Crooked Road, calls the area the ''pickle barrel'' of American music. ''You know you can't make a good pickle by squirting vinegar on a cucumber,'' he said. ''You have to let it sit.''
Over five days in April, I rambled along part of the Crooked Road and towns around it, from Fries up to Ferrum and Floyd, back to Galax and out to Marion, dipping down toward Abington, and back to Galax again. With my partner, Ian, his parents and my 2-year-old daughter, Orli, I drove down roads that curve so dramatically that locals joke that you can see your own taillights as you round the bends. The drive cuts through pastures dotted with cows and horses and weather-beaten barns, some abandoned and left to splinter. Many see the land they sold in recent decades now covered in Christmas trees, a boom industry that has changed the landscape. Churches rise up one after the other: Baptist, Pentecostal, Methodist. ''Google Doesn't Satisfy All Searches,'' reads one church sign. ''Can't Sleep? Try Counting Your Blessings,'' says another.
We traveled 370 miles in all, what with switchbacks and retracing our steps to hear just one more tune. We were following the songs that had blown this way and that like so many dandelion seeds across the Blue Ridge Mountains and through the foothills of Appalachia. Our lodgings included everything from a Hampton Inn to an eco-minded auberge decorated by local artists, to a Ragtime-era hotel, recently restored to its former glory.
ALONG the way we stuffed ourselves with buttery biscuits, farm eggs and smokehouse Southern flavors that somehow taste different south of the Mason-Dixon line. Orli loved every minute of it; her affinity for the music was immediate. When she ran onto the dance floor at the Floyd Friday Night Jamboree, the man next to me caught my arm. ''Let her be,'' he said. ''We're mountain people -- we'll take care of her as our own.'' She woke each morning singing the twang of the banjo.
If there ever was a place where musical authenticity was born and nurtured, ''raised up'' as the people around here say, the Crooked Road is it. From the Carter Family Fold in Hiltons (the site of Johnny Cash's last concert) and Clintwood, deep in coal country, to the farms near Floyd, music is still being made on fiddles and banjos, mandolins and guitars, dulcimers and autoharps. Every night you'll find pick-up jams on front porches, performances in theaters and quartets that pack storefronts, an old courthouse and even a Dairy Queen. In summer the area is awash in festivals, from Dr. Ralph Stanley's Memorial Day bluegrass festival in the mountains of Coeburn, Va., to the venerable Old Fiddlers Convention held every August in Galax.
This region is where old-time and bluegrass was born. Old-time is dance music, simpler and older than bluegrass. Bluegrass is filled with vocal harmonies, many made famous by (relative) newbies like Alison Krauss and Gillian Welch. It is suited more for seated audiences than the foot-stomping dance I saw in Fries, which is known as flatfoot. Both genres evolved from tunes brought by Scotch-Irish and German settlers who traveled down the wagon trails from Pennsylvania. They brought dulcimers and fiddles and later picked up the banjo from former slaves.
''It wasn't real practical to bring a piano or an organ till there was a train,'' said David Arnold, a Fries native whose wild white beard reached mid-sternum. I met him at a jam. It turned out he was the chairman of the Music Heritage Committee at the Grayson County Heritage Foundation in nearby Independence.
Our nights were spent looking for music, but during the day there were farms to explore and hikes to be taken through gorgeous parks. But even there, you'll find music. For instance, in June, at the Grayson Highlands State Park, home to herds of photogenic wild ponies, the annual Wayne C. Henderson guitar festival draws some of the best guitar players in a region packed with prodigies.
Mr. Henderson himself is a local legend. He lives and makes guitars in a blink-and-you'll-miss-it village called Rugby (population 7) that's not officially on the Crooked Road, though his shop is something of a pilgrimage site. (Eric Clapton owns one of his guitars.) I met him at one of those musical nights that seem to happen all the time around there -- this one included fellow guitar makers Jimmy Edmonds and Gerald Anderson performing at a community center in Galax while volunteers sold sacks of homemade gingersnap cookies for a dollar. The event was a fund-raiser for a program called JAM (Junior Appalachian Musicians) which aims to get local children involved in their own roots by teaching them to play music and introducing them to regional artists. A kids' string band called Loose Strings played to thunderous applause.
''It was a way of entertainment for mountain people,'' Mr. Henderson said of the music he grew up with. He went on to explain why he became a luthier, or instrument maker, a craft for which he won the 1995 National Endowment for the Arts National Heritage Fellowship. ''I got into making them because I couldn't afford a nice Martin. Living in Appalachia, nobody's got much money.''
It's true. Galax, for one, is a depressed city. There used to be a thriving furniture business there, but lower production costs overseas closed factory after factory. At the edge of town, you'll find an Arby's, Aunt Bea's Barbecue, a decent Mexican place and a Wal-Mart, but there's less work downtown. The streets were quiet the afternoons we wandered through. Folks were around, though, once we started to look. Some were wiping their hands on napkins at the Galax Smokehouse, which is known for pork, but also serves an excellent, juicy barbecue chicken. And then there's the 1920s Rex Theater, which broadcasts live each Friday night on WBRF, a country and bluegrass radio station that provided the soundtrack to our trip.
But the liveliest business in town is Barr's Fiddle Shop. Packed floor to ceiling with fiddles, guitars, amps and all manner of music -- as well as a candy-shop section stocked with fudge -- Barr's hosts music sessions, curious tourists and lesson seekers. In the 1920s, the Hill Billies quartet got its start on the site -- then a barbershop -- and their sound, which came to be known as hillbilly music, swept the nation. ''People are raised up going to the music,'' said Stevie Barr, a 35-year-old banjo virtuoso with a shock of surfer blond hair, who owns the shop his father opened. ''You are born with it, and you are born listening to it.''
I had heard that the best place to be on Friday night, to really see that generational mix, was the town of Floyd. So we bid farewell to Galax, popped a Wayne Henderson CD into the car stereo, and headed up the Crooked Road. ''More dance!'' Orli cried from the back seat. And then, looking out the window, ''More cows! More horses!'' Heaven for a city kid is driving in farm country.
BEFORE we'd gone too far, we came across Harmon's. The sign, calling it the ''Boot Capitol of Virginia,'' was enticing and I couldn't resist pulling into the parking lot. It is a sprawling store filled with stiff Wranglers, Stetson hats and endless rows of cowboy boots. Tucked in back was a museum dedicated to regional law-enforcement: a hodgepodge of Civil War paraphernalia; news reports of a shooting at the Carroll County jail in 1912 that people still talk about; the 1920 Matewan mining massacre; and random bits, like a stuffed two-headed calf. Even here there is a music exhibit, with a dulcimer and a banjo, and records cut by local musicians in the 1920s.
I tried on a pair of boots, shot through with aqua up the shaft, rich mahogany leather at the bottom. The ladies at the cash register clucked with approval. ''That'll look real nice with skirts come summer,'' one said. Impulsively, I bought them and jumped back in our rented Ford. And then I saw Ian with a Harmon's bag. ''I bought a Western-style shirt, $21,'' he said, shrugging.
A few hours later we were picking up tickets for the Floyd Country Store Friday Night Jamboree -- $5 each -- in advance. Then we wandered down the street to Oddfella's Cantina, a cozy restaurant with mismatched furniture, for salads (a relief after all the barbecue) washed down with local Shooting Creek beer. We skipped dessert to hit the jamboree.
The night began with the bluegrass gospel group Janet Turner & Friends. Tiny and snowy-haired, Ms. Turner plays a mean autoharp that pairs well with her sweet, high voice. ''When I die, hallelujah, by and by, I'll fly away,'' she sang. Orli stood in the footlights, playing an air guitar; she and another toddler each began to dance.
But then, within seconds of the band's closing note there was a rush for the dance floor. The audience had changed into double tap shoes, and left a sea of shoes in their wake. What had started out churchlike became a rumble and a roar. The Friday Night Old Time Band had begun. The music picked up, and the number of people in the store doubled, tripled, quadrupled. I swooped Orli up and back, away from the dancing feet. Every inch of wall space was undulating, whooping, stomping. More polished than the dancers at Fries, everyone knew how to flatfoot, and the tap shoes kept the time. A fellow in a T-shirt that read ''Still Truckin' '' spun me onto the dance floor. I did my best to keep up, clicking my boots on the floor.
Catching my breath, I wandered back into the store, past swirls of giant lollipops and displays of Carhartt pants and jackets. The room reeked of sweat; dancers were backed up to the ice cream counter. There I met Jackie Martin in pressed Liberty overalls. The music she said, nearly teary, has kept her going through hard times. ''It's who we are and what we are,'' Ms. Martin said. ''I'm 66 years old and I can still flatfoot!''
The Floyd Country Store may be all about tradition, but the rest of town has a nouveau-hippie vibe, evident in places like the eco-minded Hotel Floyd, in events like Floyd Fest (a summer World Music festival) and in new galleries like Troika, which features decidedly unfolksy pottery, photography, wood pieces and drawings. Owned by the potter Silvie Granatelli, Gibby Waitzkin (a paper artist), and Susan Icove (a lighting designer), Troika emerged out of a biannual gallery crawl called 16 Hands, which takes visitors to the studios of artists who have moved to the region over the last 30 years or so, lured by affordable property and lovely vistas. In the process, they have pushed Floyd toward a creative economy that has buoyed it beyond the economic hardship experienced elsewhere on the Road. (Abingdon, about two hours from Floyd, has that energy too; a regional arts center called Heartwood is due to open in June.) We visited Ms. Granatelli's studio, which is set in a swath of scenery that feels like an Andrew Wyeth painting: lazy cows on the hillside above her white clapboard house, a serene creek below.
In the morning, after stacks of hot cakes, we got on the Blue Ridge Parkway and headed an hour south to the Blue Ridge Music Center on the Virginia-North Carolina border. Run by the National Park Service and the National Council for the Traditional Arts and created by Congress, the Music Center has hiking trails, a marvelous Mid-Day Mountain Music series that runs from May through October and an amphitheater.
''History is under every rock in this area,'' said Erynn Marshall, music program manager at the center, as she showed me around ''The Roots of American Music,'' a new interactive exhibition with instruments, photography and stories that trace the history and sound of the region. It was created by Joe Wilson, chairman of the National Council of Traditional Arts and author of ''A Guide to the Crooked Road: Virginia's Heritage Music Trail,'' and designed by Ralph Applebaum, known for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. In recent years, Ms. Marshall said, there has been a big push toward preserving local history and culture, and she recommended that we head to another place to see even more of that effort: the Blue Ridge Institute & Museum, in Ferrum.
The drive to the museum, we learned belatedly, was on one of the most breathtakingly twisting roads in a region of shockingly complicated driving. But on arrival, we were pleased to find a child-friendly 19th-century working farm. A woman named Rebecca was dressed as the farmer's wife; there were oxen and lambs to pet, horses, a blacksmith and a woman fiddling away on an ancient violin. At the museum, the current show, which is on display through July, is on the history of the dulcimer. Black-and-white photography in another room captures Appalachian women in the middle of the last century.
But there is another kind of history in these parts too. An hour and a half from Galax in Marion, just off Highway 81, the town's main street is darkened by the shadows of empty storefronts. On the edge of town, a Wal-Mart looms. The Lincoln Theater and the Francis Marion hotel next door are lone standouts in a time of deep economic upheaval. Built in 1929 by the furniture factory owner Charles Wassum, the Lincoln is a masterpiece of Mayan revival; it stood empty from 1977 until a renovation in 2004. The hotel hails from the same era; it was rehabilitated from a boarding house to its former glory five years ago. After checking into our neat black-and-white room, we had a bite to eat and ran into the Lincoln for its monthly event, Song of the Mountains, a collaboration between the Lincoln Theater and PBS.
The theater is gorgeous -- Art Deco murals on the walls, depicting scenes of Southern history. Sweet Potato Pie, a five-woman bluegrass band, was on stage. The sound was amazing, but immediately we realized we'd made a mistake. Orli couldn't run here, couldn't dance. She was the only child in the audience. After two songs, she and Ian left for the hotel.
They missed the Carter Family Sound, the group that took the stage next and played a string of songs in homage to one of the first families of bluegrass and country music. I met the group in the lobby after their set, and they laughed that I'd brought a 2-year-old. The place for little ones, they said, is the Carter Family Fold, in Hiltons, a few hours down the road. On Saturday nights, old-time bands pack the house and children run free.
You could spend a whole summer here, I realized, going to jams every night, seeking out sit-down venues like the Fold, and the Lincoln, standing-room-only music sessions in stores, and hiking the trails along New River.
As we drove back home to Washington, I kept thinking of the song playing when we'd left the Fries session that first night. ''Y'all come,'' Karen Carr on the upright bass had sung out, channeling Bill Monroe's country song of that title. ''Y'all come see to us now and then.''
And we promised ourselves that we would.
Correction: June 5, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The cover article on May 22, about a drive along the music trail known as the Crooked Road in Virginia, misspelled the name of a town on the trail. It is Abingdon, as shown on the map and referred to elsewhere in the piece, not Abington. A picture caption with the article misstated the location of another town on the trail, Mouth of Wilson. It is in southwestern Virginia, not northern Virginia. The article also misstated the location of a Carroll County shooting in 1912 that people still talk about. It was in the county courthouse, not the jail.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOVE: Mouth of Wilson, Va., on Route 58 along the Crooked Road in northern Virginia. BELOW: Wade Petty plays the fiddle at the Fries Theater. (TR1)
LEFT: June Larrivee and her husband, Paul, at left, and Dottie Reilly and Mac McGinn dancing at the weekly session at the Fries Theater. RIGHT: The foot-stomping dance is called the flatfoot.
CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT: If you're not dancing, you're keeping time at the Floyd Country Store's Friday Night Jamboree
Wayne Henderson finishes a guitar in his workshop
tuning up at the jamboree
a slow number on the dance floor at Floyd Country Store. (TR4)
TOP: Dancers change into tap shoes at the Floyd Country Store Friday Night Jamboree ABOVE, CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT: The Crooked Road, in Grayson Highlands State Park
Ron Stewart after performing at the Carter Family Fold
the New River by Fries
 wild ponies by Grayson Highlands State Park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR5) MAP (TR4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); DANCE (76%); MAMMALS (74%); DANCERS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



691 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Eclipse of the Proprietor, Rise of the Chef

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
IMAGINE Rick's Cafe Americain without Rick Blaine. Chances are Rick's would have become just another belly-up gin joint whose customers were more faithful to its departing proprietor than to the food.
Which is what happened to Elaine's. Less than six months after Elaine Kaufman died, her legendary celebrity haunt, founded in 1963 at 1703 Second Avenue on Manhattan's Upper East Side, is slated to close. Last call: 4 a.m. Friday, May 27. Diane Becker, Ms. Kaufman's successor as owner and manager, lamented last week that Elaine's was no longer ''viable.''
The recession had not helped. Nor, perhaps, did the commotion caused by construction of the Second Avenue subway. But the ingredient that regulars like Woody Allen, Gay Talese and Carol Higgins Clark missed most wasn't on the menu. It was Elaine herself. 
Other eponymous restaurants have survived beyond their namesakes. Think Peter Luger. Mickey Mantle's. Sardi's. Jack and Charlie's is still thriving, but by the time Jack Kriendler, its co-founder, died in 1947, his hangout was already better known by its speakeasy address as ''21.''
Also, even in a era when the Dublin Philharmonic turns out to be composed largely of Bulgarian musicians and Donald Trump rents his name to luxury properties that other people are developing, no one expects to run into Peter or Mickey or, for that matter, Roy Rogers at a fast-food franchise. Nor do they expect to see many living titular hosts, like Michael Jordan at his steakhouse.
Although some owners or hosts are still pre-eminent (Julian Niccolini and Alex von Bidder of the Four Seasons come to mind) and the maitre d'hotel Oscar Tschirky is commemorated in the name of a restaurant at the Waldorf-Astoria, restaurants today are more likely to be named after chefs. Regardless of whether a celebrity chef is glued to the kitchen, his name confers an assurance of consistent quality. That value ends with his death, though, unlike the comforting spirit of, say, Patrick J. Clarke who, legend has it, owned P. J. Clarke's early in the 20th century. As one food writer quipped, a dead chef is different from a dead saloonkeeper.
''If the name were a chef's, such as Jean-Georges or Daniel or Boulud or Bouley, it would be difficult to survive if it was known that the original was no longer involved or alive, even if that person was not often doing the cooking even when alive,'' said Mimi Sheraton, the food writer.
An eponymous restaurant also raises expectations, which is why, the restaurateur Danny Meyer says, he doesn't have one. ''There's not a day that goes by that I'm not in at least one or two of my restaurants, but I was very conscious of the fact that people would expect to never visit the restaurant without seeing me,'' Mr. Meyer said. ''Anyway,'' he added, ''someone has already named a restaurant Daniel.'' (That ''someone'' is the four-star chef Daniel Boulud.)
If the Zagat survey had a category for eponyms, Elaine's-- more salon than saloon -- might have been listed alongside Toots Shor's or Jack Dempsey's, which depended on their hosts' gregarious presence.
Still, even before Ms. Kaufman died, a review for the 2011 Zagat guide panned Elaine's as ''past its heyday'' with ''snobby service'' and ''overpriced, undergood food.'' Tim Zagat, who founded the restaurant rating surveys, said: ''If the restaurant is a good restaurant with good food, good service, good administration and the owner is not a vital part of it, it will survive. On the other hand, Elaine was Elaine's. The trouble is, the restaurant didn't have all the ingredients that a restaurant requires.''
Which meant that rushing to Elaine's for the food resembled Rick Blaine's stated reason for coming to Casablanca.
''My health,'' Rick told Captain Renaud. ''I came to Casablanca for the waters.''
''What waters? We're in the desert.''
''I was misinformed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ONE LAST TOAST: Elaine Kaufman outside her restaurant in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); FAST FOOD (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

COMPANY: P J CLARKE'S (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (56%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



692 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; NOVELTIES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: The Answer Is (Artificially) Blowing in the Wind

BYLINE: By ANNE EISENBERG. 
E-mail: novelties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ONLY God can make a tree, the poem says. But scientists are working on making artificial leaves that can produce fuels directly from sunlight, water and carbon dioxide, just as real leaves do. One day, the new leaves could help people heat their homes and drive their cars.
''If nature can do it, so can we,'' said Gary Brudvig, a Yale chemistry professor who studies photosynthesis, the process by which plants convert and store energy from the sun. ''We want to use the principles from nature to design an artificial leaf,'' he said, adding that research groups around the world are working on the idea. 
The artificial leaves won't rustle soothingly in a summer breeze, or change from green to red and fall to the ground in autumn. Instead, they will probably be thin sheets of plastic embedded with light-absorbing materials, or sheets of bubble-wrap-like material spread out over a field that take in sunlight and water vapor and emit, for example, hydrogen or methanol.
''Artificial leaves are inspired by leaves, but they won't look like them,'' said Nathan S. Lewis, a chemistry professor at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. He is the principal investigator for a five-year artificial-photosynthesis project that was awarded a grant of up to $122 million by the federal Department of Energy. ''We will be leading a national and international effort to produce fuels directly from sunlight,'' said Dr. Lewis, whose Joint Center for Artificial Photosynthesis is one of three Energy Innovations Hubs set up by the Energy Department.
The center is now hiring chemists, software engineers, theorists and others to work both on the development of artificial photosynthesis, and on the prototypes that will perform the conversion and storage, Dr. Lewis said.
Artificial leaves are hardly new in laboratories, Dr. Brudvig of Yale said, but they have been too expensive, too fragile or too inefficient to compete commercially with fossil-fuel systems.
Dr. Lewis agreed. ''For example, a system may be cheap and efficient, but not enduring,'' he said. During the next five years, however, he and his group will be building prototypes designed to overcome these problems. ''We are going to take the best efforts from around the world,'' he said, ''and bring them together in a system to absorb sunlight at the right energy to make fuel.''
One creator of artificial leaves, Daniel Nocera, the Henry Dreyfus Professor of Energy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, wants to start by putting them on the rooftops of homes in developing countries. He demonstrated the latest version of his artificial leaf at the national meeting of the American Chemical Society in March.
The demonstration is detailed in two papers that are about to be published, he said -- one in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences -- as well as in one more paper he is still working on. ''Our goal is to make each home its own power station,'' he said.
The leaf is made of inexpensive materials and works with ordinary water, he said. For the demonstration, he used a slim piece of silicon about the size of a playing card. The silicon was coated with catalysts, created by him and his group, that speed the breakdown of water into hydrogen and oxygen.
''On one side of the silicon, hydrogen starts bubbling up, and oxygen bubbles up on the other side,'' Dr. Nocera said.
The catalysts are placed directly on the silicon, so no extensive wiring is needed, as in standard photovoltaic cells, to convert sunlight into current and break down the water into hydrogen and oxygen. No extensive membrane is required, either. He plans to collect and use the hydrogen as a fuel.
His system is designed not for the relatively high energy use of a typical American home, but for homes with much more modest needs. One of its advantages is that the water it splits into hydrogen and oxygen need not be pure -- Dr. Nocera sometimes uses ordinary water from the Charles River in Cambridge, Mass., for his demonstrations. Typically for electrolysis, microorganisms in the water, for example, would need to be removed to avoid competitive reactions, said Daniel R. Gamelin, a chemistry professor at the University of Washington in Seattle who also works on artificial photosynthesis.
ANOTHER advantage of Dr. Nocera's system, Dr. Gamelin said, is that the hydrogen need not be delivered to people's homes, but could instead be created on the spot. ''The technology is important,'' he said, ''because people in third-world countries may generate the hydrogen in the place they want to use it.''
In 2008, Dr. Nocera formed a company, Sun Catalytix of Cambridge, Mass., with financing from the Tata Group of India and Polaris Ventures Partners, among others. He said his partners at the company were working on commercial development of the technology.
''They are well beyond the science and into engineering and reliability,'' he said. ''They are building and assessing prototypes for systems for the poor.''
Harry B. Gray, the Caltech chemist in whose lab both Dr. Nocera and Dr. Lewis once apprenticed, said he was looking forward to Dr. Nocera's publication that will provide detailed information about the catalysts on the silicon leaf.
''We need robust catalysts made from earth-abundant materials to help us reach the goal of scalable systems for the production of solar fuels,'' he said.
Such systems could be transformative, Dr. Brudvig of Yale said.
''We don't have a system right now that can be used commercially for photosynthesis that competes with fossil fuels,'' he said. ''But developing one is of central importance if we are to move from a fossil-fuel energy economy to a renewable-energy economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nathan Lewis, left, and Daniel Nocera, right, have been developing artificial leaves that make fuel from sunlight. A sample from work at Caltech is at center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALTECH
LANCE HAYASHIDA
 DONNA COVENEY/M.I.T. NEWS OFFICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMISTRY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENGINEERING (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ALCOHOLS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (50%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



693 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2355 words

HEADLINE: The Defense Can't Afford To Rest

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
WHEN clients call Ivan Vogel's cellphone, they are treated to an unintentional, 13-second economic truth. ''This,'' the recorded message says, ''is the law office of Ivan A. Vogel. Leave your name and number. I'll get back to you as soon as I can.''
Mr. Vogel, a veteran defense lawyer who works mainly in Brooklyn, operates what can only be described as a telephonic practice, advising the accused wherever he may find himself. Not unlike the mobile hustler in the recent legal thriller ''The Lincoln Lawyer'' (who ran his practice from the back seat of a Town Car), his situation is somewhat unconventional, though it is also reflective of the increasingly troubled plight of a specific breed of New York lawyer, assigned-counsel -- or 18-B -- attorneys who represent the poor. 
The lawyers -- there are more than 1,000 in the city -- occupy a difficult and middling spot in New York's crowded legal cosmos, somewhere between the chauffeur-driven celebrities who moonlight as trial-coverage pundits on TV and the earnest young altruists at Legal Aid. They are creatures of the courthouse, where they spend so many hours in proceedings or waiting in hallways for their cases to be called that they are known to justices and janitors alike.
While sometimes thought of as the 97-pound weaklings of the criminal-justice system (''If someone said my name and '18-B' in the same sentence, I'd probably commit suicide,'' a more highly paid lawyer said), they are, in a sense, the heart of that system, serving the city's neediest defendants for what usually amounts to little pay.
Not long ago, it was possible to earn a decent living -- or at least to pay one's bills without unnecessary travail -- as an 18-B lawyer, most of whom, in flusher times, could count on supplementing their low-yielding indigent work with lucrative private clients. With the economic downturn, however, many complain that remunerative retainer cases are harder to find than ever, and that the defendants who do hire private lawyers are increasingly unwilling, or unable, to afford substantial rates.
In the past few years, lawyers like Mr. Vogel have found themselves in a double financial bind: the recession has cut into their private-client income, while the Bloomberg administration, seeking a lower budget, is threatening to shift some of their cases from them by changing 18-B rules.
While the change has not been finalized, the mayor's plan -- announced in February 2010 but delayed by litigation -- could result in the significant diminishment of the 18-B system, which takes its name from the law, decades old, that established New York's method for providing lawyers to the poor. Currently, the Legal Aid Society and similar institutions are the primary line of defense for the impoverished. Assigned-counsel lawyers are brought in to work on homicides and other complex cases.
But this arrangement was thrown into question last year, when the city issued a request for proposals, looking for ''vendors'' to handle -- presumably at a lower cost -- the matters that 18-B lawyers have taken on for years.
''Without the income derived from 18-B assignments, it's unlikely these lawyers will survive,'' Scott H. Greenfield, a defense lawyer, wrote last year on his blog, Simple Justice, in response to the mayor's plan. ''This is the bread and butter of many a law practice. This is how they pay the bills and feed the family. Without it, they're toast.''
To avoid becoming toast, many 18-B lawyers have started cutting costs -- laying off secretaries, scrimping on office supplies and getting spouses to help them do the books. Mr. Vogel, 50, said his practice was 98 percent assigned cases, from which, he added, he made $68,000 last year. Necessity has made him a micromanager of overhead.
He charges his cellphone at outlets in the courthouse and avails himself of the fax machines at Kinko's. He often packs a lunch and no longer accepts collect calls from clients on Rikers Island. (He visits in person or by videoconference.) When alternate-side parking rules are suspended, he gladly leaves his vehicle on the street.
ON those occasions when he has to meet a client face to face, he rents a room -- for $40 an hour (more than half his own hourly rate) -- from a company on the 11th floor of a building at 110 Wall Street, in Lower Manhattan. The other day, with his attache case in hand, he stepped into its lobby, wiped some raindrops from his coat and strolled down the hall into his workplace for the day.
It was a brightly lighted space, containing little more than a conference table, a video screen, a few rolling armchairs and a whiteboard on an easel in the corner. Oddly absent was the typical office clutter: there were no books or legal documents, no framed family photos, no copiers or laptops -- there wasn't even a desk. With its empty anonymity, the room called to mind nothing so much as the business center at a suburban Ramada Inn.
''I heard about this place from some defense guys years ago when I was in the D.A.'s office,'' Mr. Vogel said. ''At the time, I thought: 'Wow, a Wall Street office. They must be doing great.' ''
Mr. Vogel is -- by his own admission and as with many of his colleagues -- not doing great.
''It's a constant hustle,'' said Harold Baker, an 18-B lawyer who does have an office but, lacking secretarial help, types his own legal briefs at the impressive rate of 70 words a minute. ''The only way to survive is to stack up cases and run from court from court. I go anywhere and everywhere I can: Long Island, Queens, New York County, the Bronx.''
Beyond the pinch, the hustle may be the defining job condition for 18-B lawyers, whose shoes, it is said, are usually more worn than white. A few weeks ago, Mr. Vogel hurried from a plea proceeding on the fourth floor of Brooklyn State Supreme Court to a sentencing downstairs. The hearing was delayed. He sat in the back of the room to wait.
Harvey Soss, a fellow 18-B lawyer, was supposed to start a trial in the same courtroom, but turned up 40 minutes late for his appearance. When Mr. Soss rushed in, claiming what amounted to a hustle defense -- he had been ''caught upstairs,'' he said, in a competing matter -- the judge, enraged, fined him $1,000 for contempt of court.
''But I was told you were informed I'd be late,'' said Mr. Soss, a small man with a put-upon demeanor.
The judge said no, that wasn't the case.
''But, Your Honor,'' Mr. Soss said, ''this is utterly unfair.''
''Life's unfair,'' the judge replied.
NEW YORK'S indigent defense system was put in place in 1965, when Mayor Robert F. Wagner signed Executive Order 178 with the tacit agreement of the state's judicial conference and the city's county bar associations. The order was issued in response to New York County Law, Article 18-B, which itself was in response to a landmark 1963 United States Supreme Court case, Gideon v. Wainwright, which held that states were responsible, under the Sixth Amendment, for providing lawyers in criminal cases to defendants who could not afford their own.
For nearly 50 years, the city, which does not have a traditional public defender's office, has employed a hybrid system for the poor in which Legal Aid and its sibling organizations handle most indigent defense work, leaving murder and so-called conflict cases, with multiple defendants, to 18-B lawyers. Under this plan, the five county bar associations have the authority to evaluate the lawyers and appoint them to panels that hand out their assignments. The notion was that the county bars, with their professional expertise and relative freedom from financial considerations, were better suited to assess and organize assigned-counsel lawyers than the city, which pays their fees.
On Feb. 3, 2010, however, the Mayor's Office of the Criminal Justice Coordinator issued its request for proposals, seeking to increase ''the administrative efficiency and cost effectiveness of indigent services.'' In the request, the city said that it planned to employ ''multiple providers'' to handle conflict cases, which are now handled solely by 18-B lawyers, and that while it expected to pay these providers by reimbursing their costs, as is done in the 18-B system, it reserved the right ''to select any payment structure that is in the city's best interest.''
Shortly after the request was released, the bar associations sued Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, claiming he had overstepped his authority by trying, in effect, to seize control of the system. ''At stake is the continued ability of the county bars to fulfill their historic and independent role of advocacy for integrity and fairness,'' the lawsuit claims. ''Through that role, the county bars have served as a check against the pressures created by inadequate funding.''
Last year, the city spent almost $73 million, in all five boroughs, on 18-B lawyers (in contrast, the budget for the Manhattan district attorney's office was $74 million last year). Officials said that while spending on the program had declined slightly over the years -- and might decline further -- such drops were taking place in the context of citywide cuts.
The city pays 18-B lawyers $75 an hour, more than individual Legal Aid lawyers get, but far less than the hundreds of dollars an hour billed by top-flight private lawyers. Under the new plan, ''attorneys in 18-B might see their income decrease, but that's a problem every business model faces,'' said Thomas Curran, chairman of the City Bar Association's criminal advocacy committee. ''There's a new economic reality.''
Four months ago, the judge presiding over the lawsuit, Anil C. Singh, decided in the city's favor, ruling that the bars had wrongly accused Mr. Bloomberg of seizing control. ''The court recognizes that the city's current plan may cause substantial hardship to 18-B attorneys,'' Justice Singh wrote. And yet, he added, ''the economic hardship must be balanced against the city's statutory right to implement a plan that provides adequate representation to indigent defendants.''
While the case is on appeal -- arguments are scheduled for June -- the decision riled many 18-B lawyers, who took cold comfort in Justice Singh's acknowledgment of its possible effect. The lawyers say that, while they do not handle as many cases as Legal Aid lawyers do, they take on the most complicated cases and are more experienced at seeing matters to trial.
''The 18-B guys handle the toughest cases, the robberies and murders that might last a year or two before they're resolved,'' said Christopher M. DiLorenzo, president of the Bronx County Bar Association. ''The institutional providers are great for misdemeanors and quality-of-life stuff. They're more equipped to handle the not-so-complicated matters, which, frankly, are usually resolved by plea.''
In 2009, court statistics show, providers like Legal Aid handled 290,251 cases citywide, 568 of which went to trial. In the same year, 18-B lawyers represented 42,212 defendants, and 623 of them went to trial.
The other thing one invariably hears from 18-B lawyers are complaints about the way they are paid. The lawyers submit self-accounted vouchers to one of two 18-B panels in the city, but they receive their fees only when the cases they are working on are finished.
Mr. Vogel, for example, took on two new murder cases this month: one involved a heroin addict who was accused of fatally stabbing his dealer with a kitchen knife; the other was what The Daily News called the ''Cougar'' case, in which a 40-year-old woman was charged with killing her younger boyfriend.
''I'll start these jobs in 2011,'' he said, ''but I won't see a dime'' -- or rather, thousands of dollars, he estimated -- ''until 2013. In the meantime, my wife's got to carry me. It's kind of embarrassing.''
''If there is a lawyer alive in New York City surviving on $75 per hour, he's probably selling pencils on the side and sleeping in the IRT subway,'' the lawyer Norm Pattis wrote last year on his legal blog. ''A 10-hour day at such a rate yields $750; a five-day week would produce $3,750. You can't pay the rent, a secretary, insurance and all the other bells and whistles needed to keep an office afloat.''
BUT that, of course, assumes one has an office. Mr. Vogel survives -- if at times only barely -- on his rented rooms and on crowded courthouse hallways. He knows, for example, that the northwest corner of the fourth floor of Brooklyn State Supreme Court gets the best cellphone reception, and he can frequently be found there talking with his clients.
It is perhaps unseemly that his legal practice requires the intense local knowledge of a barman and the entrepreneurial doggedness of a bookie, but such are the necessities of the hustle. Recently, however, some 18-B lawyers, having read the writing on the wall, have begun to realize it may be wiser to accept -- instead of attack -- the city's plan.
Wayne C. Bodden, an 18-B lawyer who works primarily in Brooklyn, has done exactly that, assembling a crew of 30 or so colleagues -- mostly from the 18-B system, but also from Legal Aid and prosecutors' offices -- in hopes of creating an institutional team of experienced private lawyers. He plans to bill for less money an hour than 18-B lawyers currently make, but recoup the difference through the skillful management of talent and through economies of scale.
As word of his proposal has snaked through the 18-B grapevine, the reaction from his fellow lawyers has not been wholly sympathetic. ''Indirectly, I've heard comments,'' Mr. Bodden said. ''But the good part of being a tough kid from Brooklyn is I don't take it too hard.''
Mr. Baker, Mr. Bodden's 70-word-a-minute colleague, once said, ''I don't want to do anything but criminal defense work -- I love what I do.'' Then again, after cutting back on postage and photocopying expenses, after taking on 100 cases a year (''I'm a machine''), after putting home improvements and the purchase of a new car on hold, he isn't sure what his alternatives are.
''The long answer is: I hang up my defense practice and go to a firm doing something like medical malpractice work,'' he said. ''The short answer is: I don't know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CONSTANT HUSTLE: Ivan Vogel leaving Brooklyn Criminal Court. (MB1)
BUSY WAITING: Clockwise from top: Ivan Vogel, right, who spends many hours in proceedings or waiting in hallways for his cases to be called
Mr. Vogel with Calvin Simons, another lawyer, who had all his files in a briefcase and was eating lunch in the hallway
Mr. Vogel in Brooklyn Supreme Court
and making a call. He no longer accepts collect calls from Rikers Island.
 NO CHAUFFEUR: Mr. Vogel on the train to Borough Hall in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); LEGAL AID (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MAYORS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); SUICIDE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



694 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Helping the Unemployed

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Going Back on the Deal'' (editorial, May 16) concludes that ''there are better ways'' to help the unemployed than the Jobs Act, and that changes to the unemployment program go back on a December deal between the administration and Congress. 
The only thing the Jobs Act ''goes back on'' is the tired notion that more Washington spending is the only way to help the unemployed.
Here are five facts about the bill: (1) it gives states flexibility to help the jobless in their state get working again; (2) it sets minimum standards to ensure that more people receiving benefits engage in basic job search and education; (3) it helps prevent immediate tax increases on jobs; (4) it doesn't bail out some states at the expense of others; and (5) it doesn't add to the deficit.
DAVE CAMP Washington, May 17, 2011
The writer, the chairman of the House Committee on Ways and Means, is the author of the Jobs Act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); WRITERS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (71%)

PERSON: DAVE CAMP (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



695 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Twilight Year

BYLINE: By TOM CARSON. 
Tom Carson is the movie critic for GQ and the author of the novel ''Gilligan's Wake.'' His new novel, ''Daisy Buchanan's Daughter,'' will be published next month.

 BODY:
2030
The Real Story of What Happens to America
By Albert Brooks
375 pp. St. Martin's Press. $25.99.
As a comedian and filmmaker, the very gifted Albert Brooks has specialized for more than 30 years in cooking up quandaries with no ready solution except humiliation. His often ingenious first novel is no exception to that rule. In the future America of ''2030,'' the national debt has long since surpassed the gross national product. Why anyone would want to be president is ''more and more of a mystery.'' On the rosy side -- well, sort of -- a cure for cancer has been found, turning the man who did it, Dr. Sam Mueller, into a billionaire and a guru.
The bad news? Along with a stock of lesser rejuvenating drugs and gadgets, Mueller's breakthrough has left spry hordes of senior citizens cheerily hogging most of the country's remaining resources. Seeing their own chance at the good life shrink to zero, young people are forming ''resentment gangs'' and committing acts of escalating violence against ''the olds.'' The White House's first Jewish occupant, the brainy but melancholy Matthew Bernstein, would like to give them a fairer share of the pie, but even he doesn't dare risk the wrath of AARP. 
If you mourn Kurt Vonnegut's passing -- and what sane reader doesn't? -- Brooks's synthetic equivalent isn't half bad. But the disaster he invents to start his plot's multiple threads playing cat's cradle has recently become less fanciful. Early in ''2030,'' Los Angeles is finally hit by ''the big one'': an earthquake with a magnitude of 9.1 that kills nearly 50,000 people while leaving most survivors homeless. Even though Brooks's scenario thankfully leaves out nuclear meltdowns, his descriptions of the aftermath resemble the images from Japan more than he would probably wish.
For President Bernstein, however, the pressing issue is the nation's pocketbook: ''Where in God's name would the money come from to fix America's largest city?'' The cost of rebuilding Los Angeles is $20 trillion, and you can guess which foreign country can still afford that kind of loan. Off to Beijing goes Bernstein's engaging new secretary of the Treasury, a former C.E.O. named Susanna Colbert. While imagining a likable version of Carly Fiorina may be Brooks's biggest leap into fantasy, the Chinese turn Susanna down. ''You are a bottomless pit and we no longer feel comfortable feeding it,'' she's told, only to hear they've got another arrangement in mind.
Meanwhile, the other members of Brooks's large, unwieldy cast are getting on with their assigned chores. In Indianapolis, young Kathy Bernard -- once voted ''angriest girl in her sixth-grade class,'' and now hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt after her father's death -- falls for a charismatic budding terrorist named Max Leonard, who's dreaming of a ''final solution'' to the age problem. (His first name may be a nod to Max Frost, the rabble-rousing youth leader played by Christopher Jones in the 1968 trash classic ''Wild in the Streets.'') A grumpy codger named Brad Miller is camped in a refugee tent city in Pasadena, fondling a brochure for the new ''retirement ships'' (floating old-age homes) now that his condo is uninhabitable. As AARP's point man on youth violence gets wind of something major brewing from his new lover at the Justice Department, a health entrepreneur named Shen Li is pondering the business opportunities created by the latest American catastrophe.
From necessity, since even Woody Allen had more box-office clout in his prime, Brooks's movies have always been modestly scaled. It's obvious he enjoys working with print's anything-goes equivalent of a blockbuster budget. Despite his evident care in working out the novel's converging story lines, however, narrative momentum isn't his strong suit.
In his movies, his characteristic method has been to winnow the maximum in observational humor and satirical waggishness out of a more or less static situation before pulling the plug. So a lot depends on the premise's spark. After the early projects that culminated with ''Lost in America,'' the most mordant screen comedy of the Reagan years, his inspirations grew more haphazard later on, leaving his more demanding fans -- and Brooks has very few undemanding ones -- equally frustrated by the mawkish under/current of ''Defending Your Life'' and the sketchiness of ''Mother'' and ''The Muse.''
For all his acuteness about social mores, his movies never manifested much of an interest in politics until the most recent of them, ''Looking for Comedy in the Muslim World,'' an oddity that nonetheless featured some gags as clever as any he's ever thought up. (In more ways than one, it's Brooks's Bob Hope movie.) And little did we know, since this novel is unmistakably the work of a cable-news omnivore who's been let out of his cage at long last and can't stop cracking wonk jokes.
Brooks being Brooks, a lot of the jokes are astute. Calling the United States ''the original 'too big to fail' institution'' is fairly choice, and so is the image of a Chinese summit delegation keeping every/one entertained at Camp David by telling ''great stories about the former North Korea'' -- yes, it's now defunct -- ''as if it were the black sheep in the family.'' Yet he keeps larding the story with similarly impish sidebars well past the point at which his comic conceits need more elaborating. Topical satire depends on briskness, and at 375 pages, ''2030'' can be a slog.
It doesn't help that you occasionally find yourself laboring to keep track of who's who. Not to mention where's where, since vivid locales aren't in Brooks's trick bag. All too plainly, Indianapolis is just a dot in flyover country to him, and Washington no more than a handful of sets he's seen on CNN. (Among other gaffes, he seems to think cabinet secretaries have White House offices.) The various tics and vanities he distributes among his characters are amusing, but they're also interchangeable. By and large, they don't affect anybody's behavior or reveal much except Brooks's ever-keen eye for the niggling side of life.
One partial exception is Max Leonard, the young terrorist, whose mix of idealism (''He still thought that if he could get someone to really understand, they would change'') and egotism (he has mixed feelings when he doesn't show up on a ''Troublemakers'' list) is imagined with just enough empathy to keep him interesting. Still, he's a screenwriter's concoction as opposed to a novelist's. If the people in ''2030'' lack a certain dimension, it's not hard to see why: they're waiting for actors to flesh them out.
No wonder the novel's one completely successful creation is President Bern/stein. That's simply because we can imagine Brooks playing him. Amid too much chaff, every scene of the conscientious and jittery Bernstein interacting with his new Treasury secretary, who is at once a substitute wife and a substitute mom, is comic gold. Let's all just hope Meryl Streep -- the author's ''Defending Your Life'' co-star -- is available to play Susanna Colbert in whichever alternate universe ''2030'' is greenlighted for the screen, $250 million budget be damned.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TINA BERNING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CANCER (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (56%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (71%)

TITLE: 2030: The Real Story of What Happens to America (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



696 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Help From the Herd

BYLINE: By JEFFREY D. SACHS. 
Jeffrey D. Sachs is the director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University. His book ''The Price of Civilization'' will be published this fall.

 BODY:
JOIN THE CLUB
How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World
By Tina Rosenberg
402 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $25.95.
Man, Aristotle said, is by nature a social animal. This is the premise of Tina Rosenberg's new and important book, ''Join the Club,'' which examines the idea that human behavior is defined by our relationships with our acquaintances. Peer pressure, she finds, can lead to acts of great courage, or to great harm. But Rosenberg's particular ambition is to unlock the secret of using it to ''transform the world,'' in the words of her subtitle. Calling this approach the ''social cure,'' she examines how social networks can address some of the world's most recalcitrant problems -- from adolescent cigarette smoking to despotism. 
In tracking the social cure, Rosenberg draws upon her career as a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who has studied the sources of human courage (she chronicled Chile's democratic revolution) as well as the sources of human suffering (she's visited many of the world's most impoverished and disease-stricken places for The New York Times Magazine and other publications). Her new book takes the reader to the democratic revolutions in Serbia, Georgia and Ukraine, the H.I.V./AIDS-racked communities of South Africa, the villages of India and Bangladesh, and even the suburbs of Chicago where members of a megachurch struggle to forge social bonds. She combines her on-the-ground reportage with cleareyed accounts of recent findings in social psychology, neuroscience, sociology, public health and a gamut of other fields. By the end of the book, the reader has circled the globe and the social sciences several times over.
Human beings interact in several different ways -- in the marketplace, in the struggle for political power and as peers in the community. Our market relations are dominated by the quest for profit and consumer satisfaction; our political relations are dominated by the competition for power; and our peer relations are dominated by the search for status, identity and acceptance by others. Rosenberg argues that the third kind of relationship, the search for status and peer approval, is the most powerful motivator of our personal behavior and that it can be employed to remedy social ills. She calls on us to ''reimagine social change . . . based on the most powerful of human motivations: our longing for connection with one another.''
Her examples are often impressive. In Jamkhed, an impoverished district in western India, the training of women to become community health workers broke down the normally high barriers between Indian castes. The low-caste women, Rosenberg notes, ''acquire their new self-image in part through their new role in the village, the satisfaction of helping their neighbors and the respect they have earned from the villagers. As a result of the knowledge and skills of the Jamkhed women, the villages change.''
Rosenberg also reports on African-American and Hispanic students on American college campuses, whose performance in an introductory calculus class soars when they enter an innovative setting that encourages collaborative learning. Students who normally would have struggled with calculus in isolation, perhaps dropping math altogether, surmount their difficulties with peer support, and often go on to excel. In one analyst's view, ''good grades depended on making friends to study with.''
In yet another fascinating tale, Rosenberg shows how antismoking campaigns aimed at teenagers rarely worked until they adopted the message that non-smoking raises one's social status. The usual ads warning that smoking kills were wholly unpersuasive. What was effective, however, was the message that tobacco companies lie to the public about the dangers of smoking. Nonsmoking by teenagers became a kind of rebellion, an anti-authority stance, a stand against manipulative companies. In short, antismoking became ''cool.'' The examples multiply, across continents, social classes and age groups. Much can be learned from these cases about how individuals might meet their own aspirations, strengthen their communities or even bring down tyrants.
Yet Rosenberg's own accounts raise doubts as well. Many of the efforts that she reports on are successes in the short run but not in the longer run, or on a small scale but not a large scale. The peer-/oriented math strategy has not caught on widely in American universities, despite its successes. Trained community health workers, though they are demonstrably beneficial, are still not deployed in most poor regions and countries. Microfinance, though it's much praised by Rosenberg for deploying peer pressure to encourage loan repayments by poor borrowers, and thereby establishing a lending market where none previously existed, is now under heated attack in Asia and Latin America. This is in part because microfinance programs were often promoted with considerable hype as a magic bullet against poverty, and now can't live up to their billing. Even the successful advertising campaigns to fight teenage smoking were mostly discontinued despite their successes, Rosenberg reports, because of the sway of the tobacco lobby.
All this reminds us that peer pressure alone cannot transform the world. After all, economic and political relationships often trump the interpersonal. The social cure is very costly in human time (peer strategies require considerable investments of hours and effort) and often in dollars as well. Many of the programs that Rosenberg describes were paid for by governments but then ultimately killed by budget cuts; significantly, those cuts were often supported by powerful interests (like tobacco companies) that were uninterested in, or even directly opposed to, broader social goals.
The success of peer pressure, moreover, usually depends on selfless leaders who create the organizations that mobilize and inspire a community. Of course, such leaders are hard to find; and many of the programs described by Rosenberg could not really survive a founder's departure. Volunteerism, a core value of many peer programs, eventually wears thin, as volunteers need to eat and feed their families. This has been the case, for example, with unpaid community health workers: early successes with volunteers repeatedly give way to absenteeism and a /longer-term loss of morale. Paid community health workers are necessary for the long haul. The social cure is not self-sufficient; it requires support from the outside.
And of course, as Rosenberg admits, peer pressure for human betterment finds its counterpart in peer pressure for evil. She recounts the role of peer pressure in promoting youth criminality. She describes how Internet chat groups have apparently contributed to contagions of suicide. And she notes how peer pressures play an enormous role in inducing young people to become terrorists. ''The group gives courage. Even leaving aside the logistics, it is very hard to muster the will to go through with a terror plot alone, but the mutual encouragement of the group and men's loyalty to it effectively creates that will.''
These examples confirm Rosenberg's central point -- that peer interactions can shape the deepest of life-and-death behaviors -- even as they undercut the comfortable idea that such powers are necessarily for the good. At a few points she notes that the tightly bound peer groups she observes can feel oppressive to their members -- as in the case of her Midwestern megachurch's local community groups.
Rosenberg valuably reminds us that the success of a society depends on the strength of its communities, because the development of our best traits -- trust, honesty, foresight, responsibility and compassion -- depends upon our close interactions with others. At a time when America is grappling with a decline in trust, and when cooperation across nations and cultures is extremely difficult, Rosenberg's book is timely, thoughtful and important. It illuminates one crucial piece of the complex puzzle of social /improvement.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WOMEN (77%); WRITERS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); POLITICS (72%); SMOKING (68%); NEUROSCIENCE (66%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (63%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (63%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (61%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) WEST INDIA (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) INDIA (93%); SERBIA (79%); CHILE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (69%)

TITLE: Join The Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



697 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 MAZDA 2; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Its Footprint Is Small But Its Chassis Is Classy

BYLINE: By JONATHAN SCHULTZ

 BODY:
A FRIEND recently asked me to recommend an economical, not altogether unattractive small car for his fiancee, whose Honda Fit was nearing the end of its lease. I have not met the lucky woman, but as her appointed car-geek counsel, I felt compelled to suggest a 1990 Subaru Loyale -- roomy and good on gas, but about as pretty as a rust spot.
My subsequent, less flippant recommendation was not another Fit, which would have been an uninspired but shrewd response a year ago, but the Mazda 2, a car that has been showered with praise in overseas markets since its debut in 2007. The small Mazda made its long-overdue arrival in United States showrooms late last year.
Though the Mazda will never perform the moving-day miracles that resourceful Fit owners love to document on Flickr, the four-door hatchback makes optimal use of a small footprint while returning (at least in manual-transmission form, and at least on paper) superior mileage to its boxy rival from Honda. 
The car's greatest strength, however, is something not commonly engineered into the low end of the market. The 2 is a hoot to drive.
Mazda's little achiever rides on arguably the best-sorted chassis in its class, co-developed with Ford. During their union -- Ford retains a tiny stake in Mazda, which it once effectively controlled -- the companies freely swapped platforms, engines and transmissions and, sometimes, as with the Ford Escape and Mazda Tribute crossovers, everything but the badge on the grille.
The Ford Fiesta was born of this coupling, too, and shares the 2's lovely bones. Some in the automotive press have described these two as fraternal twins, yet after back-to-back weekends with the world-beating pair, I'd hesitate even to call them kissing cousins.
For starters, the Ford feels considerably more ponderous than the spry Mazda, which has 200 fewer pounds to push around. And while weight offers a readily quantifiable difference between these two, the greater divergences are more philosophical.
Mazda would love nothing more than to see its 2 anointed the No. 1 budget runabout in America. Conversely, Ford seems so preoccupied with exceeding a budget shopper's expectations that the Fiesta feels burdened by them. What was the appeal of the Ford Sync in-car connectivity system, I wondered, when I couldn't locate the stereo's AM/FM band button? Why did the 6-speed dry-clutch automatic transmission make the car lurch curiously when my foot was off of the gas? Trading up in the Fiesta sometimes felt like a trade-off.
That said, buyers wooed by the Ford's features should not cross-shop the 2 and expect the same refinement.
The Mazda's interior is not the most homely in its class -- the Toyota Yaris and the recently redesigned Nissan Versa continue to contest that cage match -- yet its cheap-feel plastics and afterthought gauges fall squarely into the econobox milieu that the Ford tries so hard to upend.
During a day of errands, the Mazda dashboard's appetite for incidental fingertip smudges suggested a Big Mac had been consumed in the cabin. (I'm a Whopper guy, so this assuredly did not happen.)
Other interior elements appeared clever, but grew irksome. Radio controls fan out from a sundial-like centerpiece on the dash, with climate-control knobs below. It is a pleasing, effective layout, but at night the luminescent center sphere acted like a tractor beam on my right pupil.
For all the interior's shortcomings, the important bits are oriented well around the driver. Mazda positioned the 5-speed manual shifter high, within easy reach of the steering wheel, so the driver's hand travels the minimum distance to change gears -- a feat of ergonomic derring-do rarely seen since the Honda Civic Si of the early 2000s. The wheel does not telescope, yet I found the driving position as comfortable as any offered by the 2's competitors.
The rear seats are not the knees-up proposition they are in the Ford. Despite being five inches shorter than the Fiesta hatchback, and more than a foot shorter than the Fiesta sedan, the 2 yields two more cubic feet of passenger space. Credit Mazda's exterior designers, who pushed the 2's wheels hard to each corner, in the manner of the Mini Cooper, for maximum cabin space.
On the road, the 2 deploys the charms that earned it World Car of the Year laurels in 2008, facing down obstacles that fluster even hard-bitten New York City commuter cars. The chassis remained composed over choppy cobblestones along the South Brooklyn waterfront, and the 1.5-liter 4-cylinder, which makes just 100 horsepower, constantly punched above its weight, pushing the 2 into pockets of fleet-moving street and highway traffic with surprising ease.
A stick shift is the proper tool to exploit the modest power band, and at $14,975 it is the most compelling value.
A car with a 4-speed automatic starts at $15,775. The only notable nondrivetrain option is a $1,455 Touring package that adds cosmetic touches like a spoiler and chrome exhaust.
In my 5-speed test car, the clutch pedal felt too close to the brake, a critique I also have of the 2's equally diminutive stablemate, the MX-5 sports car, formerly known as the Miata. But like the MX-5, the 2 can translate even prudent road speeds into outsize kicks.
That sporting nature, however, can dilute a crucial selling point.
The 2 with a manual gearbox is rated 29 miles per gallon in town and 35 on the highway -- not too impressive when larger cars like the Chevy Cruze Eco and Hyundai Elantra are breaking the 40 m.p.g. highway barrier. My observed overall mileage, in spirited but not police-baiting driving, was just 28 m.p.g.
With the 4-speed automatic, the car is rated 27 m.p.g. urban, 33 highway.
These figures compare favorably with those of the Fit, but the heavier, more powerful Fiesta outsips both cars, thanks to energy-conservation tricks including tall gear ratios that let the Fiesta engine rev lower at highway speeds.
The Ford-Honda-Mazda trio will soon face some formidable new competition, including the redesigned 2012 Kia Rio and Hyundai Accent, two subcompacts that were unveiled last month at the New York auto show and are expected in showrooms by summer. Mazda, however, intends to contest the mileage wars with a suite of efficiency-enhancing technologies called SkyActiv that is expected next year in the Mazda 2. Electric prototypes are also making the rounds in Tokyo (though no production plans have been announced).
Since the 2 is built in Japan, imports have been affected by the March earthquake and tsunami. A Mazda spokesman, Jeremy Barnes, said that while some dealers might not have certain color and transmission combinations in stock, they would work to locate cars that matched buyers' preferences.
For now, the 2's eagerness to champion the driving experience above all else distinguishes the Mazda in a segment that tends to emphasize thrift at all costs.
INSIDE TRACK ''Fun econobox'' is no longer an oxymoron.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKING TRACKS: Mazda 2 shares its platform with the Ford Fiesta but is lighter and livelier, if less lavishly equipped. (AU1)
 GUTSY: Despite its scant 100 horsepower, the 2 moves smartly in the city. (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%)

COMPANY: MAZDA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: 7261 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



698 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: As Mississippi River Recedes, Risk Remains

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
The bulging Mississippi River broke records this week when the crest rolled through in Vicksburg, Miss., at 57.1 feet. 
And while water levels have started to recede slightly in some places, officials warned on Saturday that the river would remain above flood stage for several weeks.
''Just because conditions have crested doesn't mean the flood is over,'' said Robert Simrall, the Army Corps of Engineers chief of water control for the Vicksburg district. ''People think, 'The crest is here! Phew!' and they relax. But people are still gong to be at risk until the water falls off the levees.''
So far, this year's floods have killed at least three people and affected millions of acres of farmland in the Mississippi Delta. The enormous amounts of water shooting downstream have created dangerous currents, especially in parts of Louisiana. Economists and farmers estimate that damages could add up to hundreds of millions of dollars.
Most of the Mississippi River had crested by Saturday, according the National Weather Service, but officials there said they expected water levels to remain relatively static for the next week or two. Rain in the forecast for parts of Arkansas, the Ohio River Valley and the Central and Upper Mississippi Valleys will keep the river swollen.
''That's all going to go downstream and keep levels pretty close to where they are now for some time,'' said Bill Cottrill, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service.
''We could be above flood stage through June,'' Mr. Cottrill added. ''There's that much water coming down the system.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (89%); RIVERS (78%); METEOROLOGY (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); ARMIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



699 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: For Richer, for Poorer, In Floodwaters or on Dry Land

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
VICKSBURG, Miss.
SOMETIMES the bridegroom is missing in the weeks before the wedding. Sometimes this means that he has cold feet, sometimes that he is simply hiding from the barrage of napkin color decisions.
And sometimes he is working sun up to sundown baling hay and herding cattle to higher ground in anticipation of a historic flood.
Mott Roland Headley, 29, is in the latter camp.
This is what a woman asks for when she marries a cowboy, so the bride-to-be, Martha Magnuson, 31, is taking it in stride. 
The wedding is slated to take place here on May 29, but the Mississippi River is spread out into parts of the city and surrounding areas right now. The couple say they're not worried about pulling off their wedding amid all that, but it has thrown up some rare obstacles.
The direct route between Port Gibson, Miss., where the couple live, and Vicksburg, where Ms. Magnuson works as a coordinator of grant-financed projects for Jackson-Hinds Comprehensive Health Center, has been underwater since May 12. Crucial wedding-planning time is spent instead on a long, meandering commute through the countryside.
And then there is the fact that Mr. Headley is away all day every day, trying to keep 1,300 cows from drowning.
''There's usually enough scrambling at weddings,'' said the bride's father, James L. Magnuson, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin and the director of its Michener Center for Writers. ''This is only more so.''
Ms. Magnuson did not seem, on paper, to be a cowboy-marrying type. After spending her college years in Providence, R.I., Ms. Magnuson had headed West. ''To Los Angeles, like all Brown graduates,'' Mr. Magnuson said.
She imagined herself running a movie studio, or so went the plan. She worked as an assistant on a couple of movies, and loved the process. But Hollywood is no place to be if you don't have the drive, and may not be the ideal place to be even if you do, she said. So after six years, she bested the whole industry in a way, by going off to live a life that screenwriters have fits trying to make up.
Vicksburg, in fact, had always been a part of her life. Around the time she was born, Mr. Magnuson, then a struggling playwright in New York, had decided to economize and moved his young family to Broadacres, a cattle ranch some 13 miles southwest of Vicksburg owned by his wife's family.
''There was a group of nuns that fished on our property,'' Mr. Magnuson said. ''We became friendly and comfortable with them, and so when my wife was about to give birth to Martha, we went to the hospital they ran in Vicksburg.''
By the time Martha Magnuson was ready for kindergarten, the family had left Vicksburg and the farm behind and moved to Austin.
But in 2008, when Grey Flowers Ferris, an uncle of Ms. Magnuson, who was a Mississippi state senator and also ran the ranch, died, she wanted to be closer to her grandmother in Vicksburg. So she applied to a graduate program at Tulane University in New Orleans.
''She knew her 91-year-old grandmother would be all alone,'' Mr. Magnuson said. ''So she would visit often and have a toddy with her.''
While there, Ms. Magnuson also decided to learn to ride horses at the ranch, by riding alongside a cowboy on the job. Her riding partner, an older man with a weakness for exaggeration, told Mr. Headley, a fellow cowboy, about the cute girl from Hollywood. Mr. Headley was skeptical.
''Too much sugar for a dime,'' he said.
On a busy day of cattle-herding in late 2008, they met briefly. Mr. Headley was not a charmer at first. You could mark that up to his being a taciturn cowboy, but, Ms. Magnuson said, ''There are plenty of other cowboys who would be more welcoming.''
Still, he was intrigued.
Mr. Headley, whose family has been in the cattle business for four generations, would eventually take over management of the ranch when his father and a business partner bought the herd and leased the land. He would take over the riding lessons as well. In doing so, he now admits, he was making a move.
But he was not sure whether anything long term could come out of this, given his job, which by then he knew would be his career for life.
One day, while out on the ranch with Ms. Magnuson on a four-wheeler, Mr. Headley came clean.
''He was very straightforward,'' Ms. Magnuson said. She, in fact, had already begun succumbing to his quick wit and his rare sort of self-assurance.
And thus began a year of ever more frequent visits to Vicksburg. Mr. Headley is a practical man, so when he invited Ms. Magnuson for a horseback ride in March 2010, and gave no particular reason for it, she knew what was going to happen.
Since that horseback ride they have been planning for the wedding, which is to take place here. One of Ms. Magnuson's uncles will officiate.
Until late April, the planning had been going as well as could be expected. ''We were finally at that point where the broad strokes and the real drudgery was out of the way,'' Ms. Magnuson said.
Then there was the flooding. The Mississippi is expected to stay at a record high level for days if not weeks, cutting off roads, submerging some waterfront properties and flooding hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland.
With much of the city built on a bluff, the two families never doubted that the wedding site, the 95-year-old B'nai B'rith Club, would remain dry. This hasn't stopped some among their more than 100 guests from calling to express concern.
''We've had to quell some fears,'' Mr. Magnuson said. ''We've been getting phone calls from friends in New York. They've been watching the floods on television, and everyone thinks the whole place is under water.''
When another family friend called from Washington to ask if a particular bridge was still open, Mr. Magnuson suggested that she head to the one at Vicksburg, which he assured her was just fine.
''People in low-lying areas are under water, and Highway 61 is closed along with some of the casinos,'' said Hester Magnuson, the bride's unflappable mother. But so far the adjustments have been relatively few.
''My daughter wanted to put some of her guests in some of the outlying cottages at the Cedar Grove bed and breakfast,'' Mrs. Magnuson said. ''But with some of the inn's staff -- whose own homes have been flooded -- occupying those, some guests have been moved into the main house.''
One guest from Hollywood, who reserved a room in the main house, couldn't be happier about it. ''He's staying in the colorfully named Aunt Pittypat suite,'' Mrs. Magnuson said, which like quite a few of the rooms is named for a character in ''Gone With the Wind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BEST LAID PLANS: Mott Roland Headley and Martha Magnuson's wedding preparations include moving cows to higher ground to keep them safe from the Mississippi River's floodwaters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (86%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); WRITERS (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (54%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



700 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE SEARCH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Talk About Pay Today, Or Suffer Tomorrow

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI. 
E-mail: thesearch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
NEGOTIATE your salary? In this economy?
Many job seekers would be thrilled to be offered a job at all. How ungrateful and even risky, they may feel, to haggle over salary when the unemployment rate is so high.
And research shows that even when economic conditions are good, women tend to be more reluctant than men to negotiate for a salary higher than the one initially offered.
But failing to negotiate can be a mistake that reverberates for years, says Linda C. Babcock, an economics professor at Carnegie Mellon University who specializes in negotiation. Because most raises are based on percentage increases, she notes, all of your future raises -- along with contributions to your retirement account -- are likely to be lower than if you had negotiated a higher salary at the start. 
Some people fear that a job offer will be rescinded if they dare ask for higher pay, and that the employer will move on to the next applicant, says Barbara Safani, owner of Career Solvers, a career management firm in New York. But she says that is very unlikely if you negotiate reasonably.
Still, it's easy to understand why the thought of salary negotiation induces fear. That's because the employer holds almost all the cards in this game, and may ask you to give up the few you hold by requesting that you reveal prematurely your past salary and your pay expectations.
Generally, if employers try to broach the salary issue early in the interview process, you should do everything possible to defer this discussion, and, if pressured to give numbers, be as vague as you can, Ms. Safani says.
And once you get an offer, don't accept it on the spot, she suggests. It is perfectly acceptable to say that while you are excited about the job, you need a few days to think about it.
Use that time to clarify your priorities, Ms. Safani says. Is making a certain salary most important to you? Or is it the vacation time, the hours, the responsibilities or something else?
Gather as much salary intelligence as you can about the position, before the first interview and after the offer. Web sites like Salary.com, Glassdoor.com and PayScale.com list salary ranges within an industry, company and geographic location. Don't rely on these sources completely, as they may depend on self-reporting, some of it anonymous. But they can give you a benchmark.
And talk to any people you know within that company, or other ones like it. You don't have to ask them flat-out what their salaries are, Professor Babcock says. Instead, you might ask, ''What do you think a good salary for this job would be?''
This research will help determine your true value in the marketplace and can provide the basis for deciding how hard you should negotiate -- even if you are now unemployed.
In general, when you are ready to negotiate, ''don't ask for what you want, ask for more than you want,'' Professor Babcock says. ''You could typically ask for at least 10 percent more than they offer you.''
Once you have your number on the table, the employer might say, ''Oh, we can't possibly do that.'' In many cases, that does not mean the negotiation is over, Professor Babcock stresses. ''You say: 'How close can you come to that figure?' ''
If the company is reluctant to come closer, she says, you should consider asking, ''Can we meet in the middle?'' That's often effective, she adds, ''because it just seems fair.''
Sometimes, though, employers have a salary limit they cannot exceed, notes Rusty Rueff, a career and workplace expert for Glassdoor.com. Yet there may be ways to work around that so you still come out ahead. Suppose you're offered $100,000, but you wanted $110,000 and the employer says no. You could seek a bonus at the end of the first year if you meet performance goals, he says, or, depending on the industry, try to arrange for an equity stake in the company.
You may also be able to negotiate a signing bonus, additional time off (paid or unpaid), parking privileges, expanded benefits, relocation expenses, work hours or job title and responsibilities.
Do not bluff by saying you won't accept a certain salary when you actually will. But if you state honestly and politely that the pay isn't enough, that may be a catalyst for the employer to offer more. Just be absolutely sure of where your ''walk away'' threshold lies.
Done correctly, negotiation can strengthen the relationship between applicant and employer. But too often, women are unwilling to try it at all. Men are much more likely to negotiate pay than women, Professor Babcock says.
That's because of the way many girls are brought up, she says -- resulting in the feeling that ''there might be backlash against me if I negotiate in a very assertive way.''
''Women often think, 'Well, this is my personality.' No, it's something that our society has done to you,'' she says.
In encouraging negotiation, she reminds people that they don't have to adopt an aggressive, confrontational style that is unnatural to them. In short, she says, you can still be yourself and win a higher salary.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

COMPANY: SALARY.COM INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



701 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Help Before Borrowing

BYLINE: By MARYANN HAGGERTY

 BODY:
EVEN though the housing market remains sluggish, Bernell Grier says that her nonprofit agency is hearing from ''record numbers of people'' seeking advice on how home-buying works and whether they're in a position to own now that real estate prices have fallen.
''There's this thing that the dream of homeownership in America is dead, and we're not seeing that,'' said Ms. Grier, the chief executive of Neighborhood Housing Services of New York City, which promotes affordable housing and is one of several groups that counsel homeowners and would-be homeowners. ''We're still seeing families interested in wanting to own their own property.'' 
The nonprofit GreenPath Debt Solutions, a counseling agency that has several offices in New York and provides telephone support nationally, is also seeing a steady stream of activity. Its goal is to teach about money management, mortgages, the closing process and homeowner responsibilities, ''so first-time home buyers can make an informed decision,'' said Setina Briggs, the housing program manager.
Barry Zigas, the director of housing policy at the Consumer Federation of America, said counseling wasn't an absolute necessity ''to become a competent, well-educated consumer.'' But it's time worth spending, he argued. A home purchase is ''the sort of transaction you ought to enter into with as much information as you can.''
Prepurchase education, although traditionally aimed at low- and moderate-income first-time buyers, is available to anyone. Some loan offerings, like New York City's HomeFirst Down Payment Assistance Program, require that people go through training to participate.
In the wake of the financial crisis, there has been plenty of debate about whether there was too much emphasis on homeownership and whether people who never should have bought were pushed into risky loans. Supporters of prepurchase education, including lenders, say that it reduces the chance that borrowers will get in over their heads.
But a recent study conducted for the Mortgage Bankers Association found that there has been little scientifically rigorous research to prove that claim. Still, Ms. Grier and others cite their positive experiences -- her agency, for instance, reviewed the records of about 250 families who had gone through counseling from 2005 to 2008. ''We did not find anyone who lost their homes due to being in a bad mortgage product,'' she said. Those who did face problems did so because their income had decreased.
Families coming to counseling now say they want to avoid making the mistakes that brought others to the brink, she said. And those going through foreclosure counseling frequently say they wish they had learned the ins and outs of ownership before buying.
Sometimes counseling involves a one-on-one review of finances, in person or over the phone. That can be buttressed with classes -- Neighborhood Housing Services, for instance, has a 10-hour program. Some agencies are experimenting with online education.
Whatever the format, prepurchase education comes at little or no cost to the consumer -- most agencies charge $25 or $50 to pull a credit report and for study materials. The counseling programs are usually financed by a mix of philanthropy, support from lenders and government money.
The government financing is shaky, however: in April, during Congressional talks to avoid a government shutdown, $88 million was cut from the Department of Housing and Urban Development's counseling budget. (HUD-approved counselors can be found at the HUD Web site.)
Programs probably won't be eliminated until at least the end of September, said Eileen Fitzgerald, the acting chief executive of NeighborWorks America, a nonprofit group. Ms. Briggs said that agencies like hers were adequately staffed. A consumer ready for counseling ''could pretty much get in the next day,'' she added.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



702 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS WESTCHESTER; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Disparate Musicians With a Shared Sensibility

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LUTZ

 BODY:
THE trumpeter Marvin Stamm and the saxophonist Jason Rigby might seem unlikely band mates. While both are members of the Westchester Jazz Orchestra, they are of different generations (Mr. Stamm is 71, Mr. Rigby, 36) and arguably of contrasting musical temperament, with Mr. Rigby's small-group projects offering a decidedly freer brand of jazz than Mr. Stamm's.
But when the two musicians took successive solo turns last month at the Bennett Studios in Englewood, N.J., recording the jazz orchestra's second CD -- the tune was Herbie Hancock's ''Eye of the Hurricane'' -- the consensus in the control room was that their improvisations reflected a shared sensibility, one of the traits that have come to define the orchestra under Mike Holober, its artistic director and conductor. Mr. Holober is credited with shaping an ensemble among seemingly disparate musicians that speaks with a single voice. 
''There's now a cohesiveness to the band that I think utilizes all the talent that has been there since Day 1,'' said Gary Walker, the music director at WBGO, the jazz radio station in Newark. Mr. Walker, who introduces the band at its concerts, has been observing it from its first shows in 2003.
Within weeks of becoming artistic director in January 2007, Mr. Holober found himself pulling together the diverse strands of the organization: conducting a concert, leading a workshop and overseeing the band's first recording, ''All In.'' The CD, a collection of new arrangements of jazz standards, spent 13 weeks on the Jazz Week charts, peaking at No. 4.
That recording raised the profile of the 16-piece orchestra considerably. And even as the band reduced its season by one concert amid the recession, a string of notable performances, including the premiere of its first original work, heightened the buzz in Westchester and beyond. Most of the 400 seats at the Irvington Town Hall Theater were filled for all four concerts last season.
The recording made last month at Bennett Studios, ''Maiden Voyage Suite,'' will consist of original arrangements of tunes from Mr. Hancock's 1965 album ''Maiden Voyage.'' The suite was enthusiastically received twice in concert, though it became a candidate for recording only when the orchestra won a $10,000 grant from the Aaron Copland Fund for Music. The award was announced last June. The recording session, Mr. Holober said, was ''definitely overdue.''
The session, a two-day affair, started slowly. The chief engineer, James A. Farber, said he was not used to the studio, a converted railroad terminal. As he worked the controls on the first tune, ''Little One,'' he initially expressed concern about whether the wiring on all of the horns' microphones was intact. And as the alto saxophonist Jay Brandford, who had arranged the tune, prepared to listen to the playback, he admitted to a few tense moments of his own.
But the tension quickly drained away as music filled the control room. Lush one moment and highly articulated the next, the horns -- especially Mr. Brandford's alto, which rose in solo above the band -- revealed no evidence of lost connections. Mr. Brandford, normally one of the band's more reticent personalities, smiled broadly, saying ''Little One'' had never sounded better in the orchestra's hands.
''Eye of the Hurricane'' and the title tune finished off the day in a flurry of mixed meters and complex reharmonizations. On the second day, ''Dolphin Dance,'' ''Survival of the Fittest (Part 1)'' and three short pieces of transitional writing were dispatched with relative ease. The need for specific musicians to redo passages was kept to a minimum. And all of the tunes were completed in two takes -- save for ''Survival of the Fittest (Part 2),'' which needed three.
The suite is the work of four writers -- Tony Kadleck, Pete McGuinness, Mr. Holober and Mr. Brandford -- all of whom are current or former members of the orchestra. Each has a distinctive style. Yet the musicians noted a consistency of voice, largely reflecting the efforts of Mr. Holober, who chose the writers, stayed in touch with them as their work progressed and produced transitions -- a prelude, interlude and epilogue -- that wove in motivic bits from their arrangements.
''Somehow,'' Mr. Stamm said, ''the music came out seamless.''
The record is not intended simply as a document of the suite; parallel versions of some tracks have been recorded for airplay. Endings have replaced segues, and the individual tracks have been kept to a length of less than 11 minutes, which Mr. Walker said would fit WBGO's format. The album, he said, will take its place among the 100 or so new releases from which the station chooses at any one time, and cuts from it might be played three or four times a week.
Given the radio exposure, the reputation of the band members -- some of the most in-demand players on the scene -- and the persistence of the orchestra's executive director, Emily Tabin, ambitions are high for the album. Ms. Tabin said its release is likely before the end of September, a date that would allow time for mixing, editing -- and placing it in circulation just as deadlines for the awards season roll around.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ENSEMBLE: Mike Holober, above, artistic director and conductor of the Westchester Jazz Orchestra, is credited with forming a single voice from the group. The group includes, from below left, George Flynn on trombone
Jay Brandford, shown warming up on the alto saxophone
 and Harvie S on bass. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); THEATER (77%); RADIO FORMATS (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



703 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Our Irrational Fear of Forgetting

BYLINE: By MARGARET MORGANROTH GULLETTE. 
Margaret Morganroth Gullette, a scholar at the Women's Studies Research Center at Brandeis University, is the author of ''Agewise: Fighting the New Ageism in America.''

 BODY:
Waltham, Mass.
IN our hypercognitive society, fear of forgetfulness has made deep inroads into the psyche. Misplacing car keys, once considered mere absent-mindedness, is now a clinical symptom. Technological ineptitude in the prime of adulthood is ascribed to memory failure.
The mere whiff of perceived memory loss can have terrible consequences in an insecure economy in which midlife workers are regularly (and illegally) laid off on account of their age. This epidemic of anxiety around memory loss is so strong that many older adults seek help for the kind of day-to-day forgetfulness that once was considered normal. 
Greater public awareness of Alzheimer's, far from reducing the ignorance and stigma around the disease, has increased it. People over 55 dread getting Alzheimer's more than any other disease, according to a 2010 survey by the MetLife Foundation. The fact that only 1 in 8 Americans older than 65 has Alzheimer's fails to register.
Is the prospect of the disease so horrifying that it should prompt someone to consider suicide? A writer I know whose mother had Alzheimer's told me she is stockpiling pills. An academic told me he has found someone who will help him die ''before I lose my mind.''
Advocacy groups, manufacturers of so-called anti-aging products and the news media have, for varying reasons, tended to inflate the number of sufferers and the horrors of the condition. Doctors, too, have been complicit: some use ''cognitive impairment'' as an argument for ending dialysis or other life-sustaining treatments.
And some voices in our culture amplify these alarming sentiments. Tony Kushner links Alzheimer's to suicide in his new Off Broadway play, ''The Intelligent Homosexual's Guide to Capitalism and Socialism With a Key to the Scriptures.''
His 72-year-old hero, Gus Marcantonio, a retired union organizer, tells his assembled family that he has guessed he has Alzheimer's, and wants to sell the family house and kill himself over the weekend. Gus has no symptoms that the audience can see except once losing his place in a voluble, earnest and moving speech.
In the Korean director Lee Chang-dong's film ''Poetry,'' which won the award for best screenplay at Cannes last year, the graceful and empathetic heroine, who is 66, is given a diagnosis of Alzheimer's. She too has no symptoms other than once forgetting the word for ''bus station.'' Yet in the film she jumps off a bridge.
The characters have other motives besides fear to end their lives -- guilt, mainly. So why is Alzheimer's brought into these plots so conspicuously? Perhaps because no other motivation seems as plausible to an audience as a reason to kill oneself.
Despite the prevalence of Alzheimer's in our national conversation, diagnosing the disease is actually difficult. There is no test that can predict whether forgetting names or words like ''bus station'' is an indicator of the onset of a degenerative disease. Many older people lose the ability to remember proper nouns but then never progress to losing any other part of speech.
Most forgetfulness is not Alzheimer's, or dementia, or even necessarily a sign of cognitive impairment. And yet any prophecy about impaired cognition -- whether it is fulfilled or not -- harms people's sense of self. They begin to be treated like children, patronized with baby talk or avoided. At the assisted living facility where my mother lived until she died last year at age 96, the nursing director told me that some people think Alzheimer's is contagious. Victims of misdiagnosis -- or, just as devastating, self-diagnosis -- dread being shunned, rejected by their offspring, going into debt, becoming a ''burden,'' losing selfhood.
It needn't be this way. People with cognitive impairments can live happily with their families for a long time. My mother was troubled by her loss of memories, but she discovered an upside to forgetting. She had forgotten old rancors as well as President George W. Bush's name. We sang together. She recited her favorite poems and surprised me with new material. We had rich and loving times. Suicide didn't cross her mind.
The mind is capacious. Much mental and emotional ability can survive mere memory loss, as do other qualities that make us human.
In fact, a revolution in care-giving might be slowly taking root, at least among those aware of alternative narratives of memory loss.
Thomas Kitwood, a British psychologist who was a pioneer in the field of dementia care, died in 1998, but his books, which emphasize personhood instead of debilitation, remain influential. ''Making an Exit,'' a memoir by Elinor Fuchs, a drama professor at Yale, explored the conversational patterns of her mother when she was in an advanced stage of Alzheimer's. Anne Basting, director of the Center on Age and Community at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, who wrote a play from poems created by people with Alzheimer's, has a slogan: ''Forget Memory. Try Imagination.''
What a difference it would make if everyone began to share these attitudes. We could make cognition-related fear-mongering shameful and rare, make debates about end-of-life care less searing, improve treatment protocols, reaffirm our collective compact with older people, ease our relationships with people of any age who are cognitively impaired, and enable adults to look forward to getting older with hope instead of despair.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTIAN NORTHEAST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SUICIDE (89%); MEMORY DISORDERS (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (77%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (77%); EPIDEMICS (76%); AGING (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); POETRY (67%); DIALYSIS (64%); THEATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



704 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3263 words

HEADLINE: It Teetered, It Tottered, It Was Bound To Fall Down

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and JOSHUA ROSNER

 BODY:
This article was adapted from ''Reckless Endangerment: How Outsized Ambition, Greed and Corruption Led to Economic Armageddon,'' by Gretchen Morgenson, a business reporter and columnist for The New York Times, and Joshua Rosner, a managing director at the independent research consultant Graham Fisher. The book is to be published on Tuesday by Times Books.
MARC COHODES had heard the stories.
Heard how these guys would give a mortgage to anyone -- even to a corpse, the joke went. How the place was run like a frat house. 
You wouldn't believe the things that go on there, his brother-in-law had told him.
So Mr. Cohodes, a money manager in Marin County, Calif., decided to bet against one of the big names of the subprime age: NovaStar Financial.
NovaStar was part of a crop of new lenders that had sprung up in the 1990s. It had been founded by two hard-charging entrepreneurs, Scott F. Hartman and W. Lance Anderson.
The two men had complementary skills. Handling the financial operations, working with Wall Street -- that was Mr. Hartman's job. Mr. Anderson, a born salesman, was the glad-hander. From the start, the pair was paid handsomely. Each man received almost $700,000 in 1997, even though their company was losing money.
Like others in the subprime industry, NovaStar used aggressive accounting that obscured its increasingly precarious finances. As far back as the 1990s, it had to underwrite loads of new loans to offset losses on older mortgages.
But unlike many of its peers, NovaStar had already survived at least one brush with death. Now, in 2003, Mr. Cohodes was betting that it would not be so lucky again.
Although NovaStar was not a household name in lending, in 2003 the company boasted 430 offices in 39 states. With headquarters on the third floor of an office building in Kansas City, Mo., it was fast becoming one of the top 20 home lenders in the country.
NovaStar was also becoming a Wall Street darling, its shares trading at $30, up from $9.50 in late 2002. Typing NovaStar's stock symbol into his Bloomberg machine, Mr. Cohodes did a double take. Thirty dollars? Must have used the wrong stock symbol, he thought.
He hadn't. NovaStar was on a trajectory that would take the shares above $70. Thanks to aggressive management, unscrupulous brokers, inert regulators and a crowd of Wall Street stock promoters, NovaStar's stock market value would soon reach $1.6 billion.
A beefy, street-smart man fond of sports and sports metaphors, Mr. Cohodes knows every trick executives use to make their companies look better than they are. He prides himself on being able to spot trouble.
Most investors are optimists and believe that companies will increase in value. Short-sellers are the opposite.
And because they challenge company spin, short-sellers are often criticized and refused access to management.
RARE is the corporate executive with an appreciation for naysayers, and NovaStar's founders were no different. Mr. Anderson and Mr. Hartman had contempt for short-sellers. A Web site sponsored by NovaStar backers, called NFI-info.net, published a picture of a cockroach next to a discussion about investors who had bet against the company's stock.
But Mr. Cohodes was relentless, and he often shared his research with regulators at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
He figured that if he was right about NovaStar, and he was certain he was, investors everywhere would be better off if he shared his findings with investigators. The sooner the S.E.C. put a stop to improprieties, the better.
The short-sellers would benefit too, of course, if an S.E.C. investigation and civil suit confirmed what Mr. Cohodes and others had found. Even the simple disclosure that an investigation into a company's practices had been started could crush its stock.
So in February 2003, Mr. Cohodes started corresponding with the S.E.C. about NovaStar. He began ''throwing things over the wall,'' as he put it, to Amy Miller, a lawyer in the division of enforcement. By this time, loan production at NovaStar was clocking $600 million a month, up from $48 million a month five years earlier.
Among the questionable practices that are the easiest to find are those that appear in a company's own financial statements. With a little determination and expertise, accounting practices that burnish financial results or make earnings appear out of nowhere can often be spotted in these documents.
Taking his pencil to NovaStar's statements, Mr. Cohodes found a raft of red flags. ''They made their numbers look however they wanted to,'' he recalls. ''Not even remotely realistic.''
One tactic gave the company lots of leeway in how it valued the loans held on its books. Another allowed it to record immediately all the income that a loan would generate over its life, even if that was decades. This accounting method ignored the possibility that some of the company's loans might default. NovaStar assumed that losses on all of its loans would be nonexistent.
This was the same stratagem that killed off almost all subprime lenders when the Russian debt crisis rocked the world's financial markets in 1998.
NovaStar's rosy assumption not only padded its profitability but also encouraged the company to make more mortgages, regardless of quality. The more loans it made, the more fees and income the company could record.
After some digging, Mr. Cohodes found that NovaStar's lending practices were lax and rife with hidden fees.
Promotional memos NovaStar sent to its 16,400 unsupervised mortgage brokers across the country told the tale of easy credit terms. ''Did You Know NovaStar Offers to Completely Ignore Consumer Credit!'' one screamed. ''Ignore the Rules and Qualify More Borrowers with Our Credit Score Override Program!'' boasted another.
Mr. Cohodes and other NovaStar critics believed that they had found a company whose success was built on deceptive practices. What they did not recognize was that NovaStar was a microcosm of the nationwide home-lending assembly line that would lead directly to the credit crisis of 2008.
IN Atlanta, Patricia and Ricardo Jordan learned the hard way how NovaStar's freewheeling lending practices imperiled unsuspecting borrowers.
The Jordans had bought their three-bedroom home in a middle-class section of southwestern Atlanta in 1983 for $30,000. Ms. Jordan had made many improvements on the property, putting up a fence and installing an attic fan and air-conditioning. The sole breadwinner in the family, she supported her husband, a physically and mentally disabled Vietnam veteran. In 2000, she retired and they lived on Social Security and veteran benefits.
In 2004, she had a 9 percent adjustable-rate mortgage that she wanted to change to a fixed-rate loan. She received an offer in the mail from NovaStar and called the toll-free number.
''I told them I wanted to come out of the adjustable and they said they would give me the fixed rate if I would accept it at 10 percent,'' Patricia said. ''I could have stayed where I was but I told them definitely a 30-year fixed rate.''
The Jordans were more or less perfect targets for a lender like NovaStar. They were financially unsophisticated, and they were trusting.
Unbeknownst to the Jordans, their NovaStar loan was one of the most punitive out there: an adjustable-rate mortgage with an initial interest rate of 10.45 percent that would soon explode to 17.25 percent. Even the initial monthly housing payment, including taxes and insurance, was barely affordable: $1,215.33. As documented in their loan file, the Jordans' total monthly net income was only $2,697. Their monthly housing and other debt costs totaled $1,642, so after they paid their debts each month, the Jordans had only $1,055 to live on.
And that was just the beginning. Two years after signing up for the loan, its interest rate was set to ratchet up. Only then did Ms. Jordan learn that NovaStar had put her into an adjustable loan, not the fixed rate she had been promised.
''I got duped,'' she contended.
The Jordans sued NovaStar in 2007. As part of the lawsuit, their lawyer found that their loan had been placed in a mortgage securitization trust assembled by NovaStar and sold to investors in November 2004. More than half of the loans in the pool were provided with no documentation or limited documentation of borrowers' financial standing.
But the Jordans had given NovaStar bank statements and other documentation of their income. The lawsuit would show that NovaStar had inflated their monthly income by $500 to make the loan work. The lender had given the Jordans a loan that went against its own underwriting guidelines and that overrode federal lending standards.
The Jordans' was just one loan. There were literally thousands more like it. (NovaStar settled with the Jordans in 2010. The terms were undisclosed.)
Because NovaStar was not a bank, its lending practices were largely lost on state and federal regulators. Traditional banks operate under the scrutiny of financial regulators like the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which was set up to protect depositors after the huge bank failures of the Great Depression. But for companies like NovaStar, the closest thing to an overseer was an occasional state regulator who took action when it discovered that the company's independent salespeople were unlicensed.
Massachusetts was one state whose regulators recognized the threats posed by the likes of NovaStar. In October 2003, the state's commissioner of banks filed a cease-and-desist order against NovaStar, concluding that the company engaged in ''acts or practices which warrant the belief that the corporation is not operating honestly, fairly, soundly and efficiently in the public interest.''
Nevada followed with its own order in early 2004. NovaStar started closing operations in Massachusetts and Nevada, but only belatedly told the public about its regulatory reprimands.
As the housing bubble inflated, NovaStar was able to convince many of its shareholders that its mistakes were honest ones and were immaterial to its growing business. The company hired Lanny Davis, a well-connected lobbyist and public relations operative, to run interference. Mr. Davis was used to operating in a crucible; he had been special counsel to President Bill Clinton during the Monica Lewinsky scandal.
But NovaStar's problems were not limited to a few aggressive state regulators. In the summer of 2004, the inspector general for the Department of Housing and Urban Development produced a damning report on NovaStar's practices. HUD's inspector general determined that the company's branch system did not comply with federal regulations; among the deficiencies HUD cited was the company's practice of hiring independent contractors as loan officers. NovaStar's branch system, HUD said, was designed to shift risk from the company to the federal government. HUD recommended that NovaStar pay penalties in the case.
NovaStar did not disclose the HUD report to investors. All the while, Mr. Cohodes was continuing to talk to Ms. Miller and others at the S.E.C. about NovaStar. He sent them information about the company, including the NovaStar fliers indicating its anything-goes lending practices. He annotated the transcript of one of NovaStar's conference calls with analysts and investors, pointing out to the investigators the many inaccurate statements made by the company's executives.
Although some of the S.E.C. people he spoke with seemed to recognize the problems in NovaStar's operations, their investigation did not appear to be gaining traction.
The phone calls with the regulators went over the same material repeatedly, Mr. Cohodes recalls, leading him to conclude that Ms. Miller and her colleagues did not understand what was happening at NovaStar.
''Whenever they seemed to get it, they would either call up or make contact frantically saying, 'Can you please go over this again?' '' Mr. Cohodes said. ''It was almost like someone was presenting a case to the higher-ups and they would say, 'Are you sure? Go back and make sure.' ''
One matter whose importance the agency would surely recognize, Mr. Cohodes thought, was a lawsuit showing that NovaStar's leading mortgage insurer, the PMI Group, had stopped insuring the lender's loans. He passed his information along to the S.E.C., including names and phone numbers of people to talk to at PMI.
Mr. Cohodes also gave the agency information about some NovaStar branches that were either nonexistent or questionable. Opening new offices helped the company persuade investors that business was booming. But some strange stuff turned up when Mr. Cohodes and some colleagues took a road trip to see NovaStar's offices.
''A posse of us went to Vegas, which was their growth market,'' he recalls. ''We found one branch in a massage parlor, another in a guy's house,'' he says. ''After that, I wrote to the S.E.C. again and basically said, 'Someone should go in here and make sure these numbers are right.' ''
To most outsiders, NovaStar's operations seemed to be running on all cylinders. During 2004, the company wrote $8.4 billion in mortgages; that September, the amount of loans held on its books had reached $10 billion. NovaStar ended that year with 600 offices.
It was time for Mr. Hartman and Mr. Anderson to take a victory lap. ''The $10 billion mark is a tribute to NovaStar associates and our many partners in the mortgage community,'' Mr. Hartman told a reporter at Origination News, an industry publication. But while NovaStar executives high-fived each other, a unit of Lehman Brothers, Wall Street's largest packager of residential mortgage loans sold to investors, was discovering serious problems in a review of NovaStar mortgages. The findings were so troubling to the Lehman executives overseeing the firm's purchases of NovaStar loans that they ended their relationship with NovaStar in 2004.
According to documents filed in a borrower lawsuit against NovaStar, Aurora Loan Services, a Lehman subsidiary, studied 16 NovaStar loans for quality-control purposes. What the analysis found: more than half of the loans -- 56.25 percent, to be exact -- raised red flags. ''It is recommended that this broker be terminated,'' the report concluded.
Among the problems turned up by the Aurora audit were misrepresentations of employment by the borrower, inflated property values, transactions among parties that were related but not disclosed, and unexplained payoffs to individuals when loans closed.
The details uncovered by Aurora were alarming. One NovaStar loan on a property in Ohio totaled $77,500 even though the average sales price for the neighborhood was $31,685, and the same house had been purchased two months earlier for $20,000.
S.E.C. rules require the disclosure by company management of information considered material to the company's prospects or an investor's analysis. In a 1999 S.E.C. bulletin, the commission defined materiality this way: ''A matter is 'material' if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable person would consider it important.'' Two Supreme Court cases use the same standard.
Surely, Aurora's findings that more than half of the sampled NovaStar loans were questionable would have been an important consideration for the S.E.C.'s ''reasonable person.''
Still, NovaStar failed to alert investors or the public at large to the Aurora analysis. Nor did NovaStar publicize the fact that Lehman Brothers had stopped buying its loans.
Increasingly frustrated, Mr. Cohodes and the other NovaStar short-sellers kept throwing information over the wall at the S.E.C. But the inquiry soon seemed moribund.
''We kept going to the government from the time the company had a $300 million market cap, a $600 million market cap until it had a $1 billion market cap,'' Mr. Cohodes said, referring to NovaStar's rising stock price.
To keep its money machine running, NovaStar regularly issued new shares to the public. Between 2004 and 2007, for instance, the company raised more than $400 million from investors. To those critical of NovaStar's practices, this was money the company should never have been allowed to raise from investors who were kept in the dark by the company's disclosure failings.
Mr. Cohodes reckons that over roughly four years, he conducted hundreds of phone calls with the S.E.C. about NovaStar. Each time, he would walk them through his points. Sometimes, a higher-up would get on the phone and contend that while NovaStar's practices were indeed aggressive, the company did not appear to be breaking the law. NovaStar's selective disclosures -- it was quick to report good news but failed to own up to problems on many occasions -- seemed to be infractions that the S.E.C. should have dealt with. But its investigation went nowhere.
In any case, by 2006, the wheels had started to come off the NovaStar cart. The company's net income that year was less than half what it earned in 2005. The company faced a number of lawsuits, including a class action filed in Washington State in December 2005 alleging that NovaStar failed to disclose to borrowers the fees earned by brokers. Plaintiffs contended that NovaStar had violated consumer protection laws. In 2007, NovaStar agreed to pay $5.1 million to resolve the claims of about 1,600 Washington borrowers.
Its stock was falling, too. By late 2006, NovaStar was trading at around $30; but in the first few months of 2007, as the money for subprime lenders began drying up and these companies started closing their doors, it plummeted to $5. The company halted mortgage lending and stopped paying its dividend.
In March 2007, Mr. Anderson dismissed as insignificant the HUD report and the lawsuits the company had attracted. ''Clearly we're going through a tough time right now,'' he told a reporter. ''But we think the loans we are originating today will perform very well. We were surprised by the speed and severity of the downturn, but I think NovaStar will be a survivor.''
He was wrong. NovaStar's shares collapsed, wiping out roughly $1 billion in market value from the peak of the stock price. Despite the implosion, between 2003 and 2008, Mr. Anderson and Mr. Hartman each made about $8 million in salary, bonuses and stock grants.
Neither man was ever sued by the S.E.C. or any other regulator. As is its custom, the S.E.C. declined to comment on the NovaStar inquiry or the agency's discussions with short-sellers. But documents supplied by the S.E.C. under the Freedom of Information Act show the extensive communications between Mr. Cohodes and the agency. Ms. Miller, still at the S.E.C., declined to comment.
''It would be interesting to see who exactly dropped the ball, and why,'' Mr. Cohodes said. ''It would be interesting why nothing was ever brought. The S.E.C. should have sent a plane for us to come to D.C. and say: 'How do we make sure this doesn't happen again?' ''
NOVASTAR no longer underwrites mortgages. Its shares were delisted by the New York Stock Exchange and now trade for about 41 cents a share. The company, a shadow of its former self, runs a property appraiser and a financial services unit that provides banking services ''to meet the needs of low- and moderate-income-level individuals.''
In a 2010 report to shareholders, Mr. Anderson reported that the company had ''several interesting initiatives under way.'' Mr. Hartman has left the company. At the end of 2009, NovaStar management concluded that the company's financial reporting was ''not effective.''
NovaStar had, in essence, confirmed what Mr. Cohodes had been telling the S.E.C. all along. The company's financial reports just couldn't be trusted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(BU1)
Marc Cohodes, a short-seller who has shifted gears to work on his farm and raise chickens, sounded alarms about the mortgage lender NovaStar for years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOR SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Scott F. Hartman, left, oversaw NovaStar's finances. His co-founder, W. Lance Anderson, was salesman in chief. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID PULLIAM/THE KANSAS CITY STAR
 MIKE RANSDELL/THE KANSAS CITY STAR)(BU4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHIL FOSTER)(BU1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%)

COMPANY: NOVATION COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (67%) MISSOURI, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Reckless Endangerment (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



705 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: The Definitive F. A. Hayek

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his May 8 review of Friedrich A. Hayek's ''Constitution of Liberty,'' Francis Fukuyama cites a common, ill-conceived, critique: that for Hayek, morality is ''more like a useful coordinating device than a categorical imperative.'' Hayek, like other free-market theorists, developed an ethical system in which only a particular personality or character fits within the market order. In ''The Constitution of Liberty,'' he argues that markets and freedom require responsibility, and that responsibility requires discipline. Society must instill the personal ethics required for market efficiency.
JACOB SEGAL New York The writer is an assistant professor of political science at Kingsborough Community College of the City University of New York. 
To the Editor:
I have no general quarrel with Francis Fukuyama's review, but I do take issue with his suggestion that Friedrich A. Hayek's ''principled defense of a minimal state'' has found ''strong political resonance'' in America's (so-called) conservative movement.
Although strains of that movement -- for example, the Cato Institute -- follow Hayek's principle, the overwhelming thrust of conservative politics in America has been anything but an advocacy of a minimal state, and certainly not for the purposes of protecting personal liberties.
Conservatives have consistently favored a powerful, interventionist state. This includes support for, among other things, a constitutional amendment banning ''desecration'' of the flag; an escalating war on drugs that for decades has been a source of violations of constitutional rights; and restrictions on people's choices of whom to marry and on women's reproductive freedom.
The conservative ''minimal state'' is invoked to eradicate regulatory limits on rapacious financial manipulations and to lower taxes disproportionately for the very wealthy, while paying for it with brutal cuts to social programs like Medicare and Social Security. But when it comes to reining in the state to guarantee personal liberty -- a central concern of Hayek's -- conservatives have, with notable exceptions, been on the other side.
IRA GLASSER New York The writer was executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union from 1978 to 2001.
To the Editor:
Francis Fukuyama says, offhandedly, that many of Friedrich A. Hayek's ideas ''have become broadly accepted by economists -- e.g., that labor unions create a privileged labor sector at the expense of the nonunionized; that rent control reduces the supply of housing; or that agricultural subsidies lower the general welfare and create a bonanza for politicians.'' To the contrary, economists have widely differing views on these issues.
While it's true that unionized employees earn better wages and benefits, the existence of unions has forced employers to raise wages and benefits for nonunionized workers to stave off union drives, thus raising the floor for all workers. Second, studies of rent control in American cities (except those financed by the real estate industry) show that it has no impact on either the level of new housing construction or the level of housing abandonment. Finally, during the Depression, federal agricultural subsidies saved family farms and rural jobs. Today, a vast majority of farm subsidies go to large agribusiness conglomerates that don't need them, rather than to small family farmers. But food stamps, an indirect subsidy to farmers, clearly improve the general welfare.
Hayek's ideas may be making a comeback, as Fukuyama suggests, but it's not because his economic ideas have been validated by empirical research, but because they've been promoted by the likes of Glenn Beck to justify a conservative ideological and political agenda.
PETER DREIER Los Angeles The writer is a professor of politics at Occidental College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); LABOR UNIONS (84%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); DRUG POLICY (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (62%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (60%); RENTAL PROPERTY (60%); RENT CONTROL (60%); WAR & CONFLICT (51%); AGRICULTURE (50%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



706 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; TALK; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 2808 words

HEADLINE: Beyond The Melting Pot

BYLINE: By PANKAJ MISHRA

 BODY:
One evening last fall I was walking through Chinatown in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, when, suddenly, in the midst of Cantonese restaurants, shops selling knockoff designer bags and food stalls hawking exotic-looking meats, I came across the wholly unexpected sight of a Hindu temple with a voluptuous gate tower: a riot of gilded idols and precious stones and wafts of thick incense.
I walked on, under a freeway, past a pretty North Indian-style mosque, and, abruptly, the narrow vertical signs and single-column ideograms of Chinese shops gave way to something intensely familiar: I was in a South Indian market town, all gaudy silk and glittering jewelry shops.
Bollywood music blared out of speakers at Saravanaa Bhavan, the restaurant where I sat, savoring bisibelabath, a deliciously spicy South Indian concoction of lentils and rice. The pavement was hectic with flower and garland sellers - the kind of sweet-smelling chaos that lines the approaches to Hindu temples in India. But the waiters were glued to the TV screen, which showed a horse race in Hong Kong. 
The contrasts made me think of the word ''Indochine,'' which the French used to refer to the tracts of land separating Asia's two major countries. But the term began to mean something different to me in Kuala Lumpur - KL, as it is commonly known - a city that lies between two of the world's oldest civilizations. It spoke of Asia's own attempt at cosmopolitanism, at finding ways of living with cultural diversity in a profoundly interconnected world. People in almost every country now face that challenge. But sitting that evening in Brickfields, KL's Little India, I began to think that this very young city in a very old part of the world might be uniquely positioned to meet it.
Malaysia attracted Asian merchants and Arab adventurers long before the Europeans arrived to trade in the 16th century and before workers from China and India came in the 19th century to plant rubber and mine tin. A few hours south of Kuala Lumpur, the famous city of Malacca still speaks of its Dutch, Portuguese and British past. To the east of the Malay peninsula lies the island of Run, which the British officially ceded to the Dutch in 1667 in exchange for an island in the New World that was then called New Amsterdam. But the sense of being embedded in history, which never leaves you in India or China, vanishes in Kuala Lumpur.
Built pell-mell, the city lies thinly on the ground, radiating out from a small historical downtown and business district into hilly suburbs. There is something Los Angeles-like about its snaky freeways and bad public transportation. The promiscuity of its architectural styles is very L.A., too. It's not what one expects in a major Asian city, which either wears a patina of its premodern past (Delhi, Beijing) or carries the clear impress of its founders (Mumbai, Hong Kong).
One afternoon I stood in the middle of KL's old colonial quarter, now renamed Merdeka (Independence) Square, where the country's first prime minister declared liberation from British rule in 1957. To the west was the Royal Selangor Club, whose mock Tudor facade would have been at home in the English county of Suffolk. St. Mary's Cathedral, on another side, reminded me of the Anglican churches that cast a melancholy shade over English cemeteries in the hill stations of India. But the strangest structure of all faced me across the square: the Sultan Abdul Samad Building, whose profusion of onion domes, cupolas, colonnades and arches made it seem like a Moorish fantasy gone crazy.
The capital of an oil-rich Muslim country, KL is full of the solemn emblems of modernity: skyscrapers, five-star hotels with vast atria, and imposing shopping malls. (At some point, I stopped marveling at the patient queues outside a new Uniqlo store.) Indeed, you could suspect that this is a tropical Dubai, another glamorous mirage in the middle of nowhere.
Certainly, Penang, to the north, has classier architecture; Singapore, the British-built city-state south of the Malay peninsula, can boast of a more orderly cosmopolitanism; and Hong Kong has always made more money. But while those places have lost their Johnny-come-lately airs, Kuala Lumpur retains its charming frontier-town raffishness. The countryside, the landscape of thick river and dense forest that is commemorated in the fiction of Joseph Conrad and Somerset Maugham, still feels close. Just a few minutes from downtown, you can drive through stretches of fine parklands with massive rain trees.
And it remains a city of immigrants: the population is more than one third Chinese, contains a sizable group of Indians and has an underclass of laborers from Java, Sumatra, Bangladesh and Nepal. Unlike their counterparts in Hong Kong or Singapore, immigrants here don't cower out of sight while the rich splurge at Hermes. In fact, they give the city its particular vitality.
I found it moving to walk among the temples and tiny shop houses of Chinatown, a reminder of the melancholy lives of its Cantonese, Swatow, Hakka and Hokkien settlers. Here were their earliest attempts at a sense of community and spiritual solace.
KL was also notorious for its Chinese triads, and at Old China Cafe, amid the pulley lights, feng shui mirrors, marble tabletops and bentwood chairs from the 1930s, you can imagine the top-hatted gangsters suavely plotting a shipment or even an assassination. In today's Chinatown, meanwhile, the hawking of fake Rolexes and Burberry bags is perhaps the most brazen illegality. Still, in the narrow buildings with dungeonlike rooms above open storefronts, you can sense the vulnerability and desperate diversions - the gambling and prostitution - of lonely immigrants far from their homes in Southern China.
The Indians, who remain relatively impoverished, live even closer to their past. One evening I went to a celebration for Deepavali, the Hindu festival of lights. Here in this vast hall packed with Indians impassively watching a young couple on stage belt out popular Tamil songs, there was an overpowering fragrance of perfumed oils and sandalwood incense. The men were dressed in white dhotis, or unstitched cloth wrapped at the waist, and the women, often with kohled eyes, wore jasmine garlands interwoven into oiled hair and diamond and gold studs in their noses and ears. Their saris were magenta, pink and green.
On another evening, I had dinner with the Malaysian writer Amir Muhammad in Little India, whose canteens serve some of the spiciest food east of Venice. As we sat drinking the milky sweet tea called teh tarik (pulled tea), a large, traditionally dressed Tamil family arrived. Their mood was festively gluttonous, and the staff duly responded. One group of waiters unfurled large banana leaves on the tables, sprinkling them with water; others arrived with serving bowls and then proceeded to set down steaming curries, daubing bright patterns on the leaves with as much assured fluency as an artist engaged in action painting. The scene could have been from Madras circa 1950.
But the identity that Kuala Lumpur tries to project most forcefully is Malay and modern.
Government policy of affirmative action favors bumiputra - literally, ''sons of the soil'' - in education, business, state employment and even the arts. Parties are divided along racial and ethnic lines. ''Malaysia,'' Muhammad told me, ''is one of the most racially conscious societies in the world.'' (This can have a certain dark humor. A line from ''Atomic Jaya,'' a satirical play from 1998 by Huzir Sulaiman, one of KL's highly respected writers, goes: ''The Chinese do the work, the Malays take the credit, and the Indians get the blame.'')
Unlike the Chinese and the Indians, ethnic Malays were traditionally a people of the countryside, and a semirural settlement stands right next to Kuala Lumpur's Golden Triangle business district, immune to the boom in property prices around it. The squat houses, some on stilts, are of weathered timber and tin. The straight lanes between the houses are lined with frangipani, bougainvillea, coconut and date palms, and banana trees thick with fruit.
Food stalls here sell some of the best street food in Kuala Lumpur: curries and grilled fish, fried pancakes, satay and, most important, the national dish, nasi lemak: rice, peanuts, cucumber, anchovies and sambal in coconut cream. In the nearby bazaar you can find Malay shops specializing in batik, songkok (headgear for men), prayer mats and robes. You can also come across Malay medicine men selling herbal concoctions that can apparently cure all ailments. If this sounds faintly heretical, there is a big mosque nearby to assert the faith.
The impressively maintained National Museum most vividly embodies the Malay quest for a usable and dignified past. More than the exhibits themselves, I found intriguing the groups of formally dressed Malays in high-collared shirts, silver-threaded sarongs worn like kilts over their trousers; they looked eager to be instructed in their nation's history.
Nothing, however, is more eloquent with aspiration than the Petronas Towers, until 2004 the tallest buildings in the world. Their minaret-like shape is a defiant Islamic claim upon the modern world and an assertion of Malaysia's place in the comity of nations.
I wasn't surprised to learn that KL's paternity is now disputed. Historically attested wisdom had the founder as the Chinese Yap Ah Loy, the largest landowner in the mid-19th century. But the nationalist Malays like to think it was the Malay aristocrat Raja Abdullah, and so Yap Ah Loy's name has been virtually excised from textbooks.
But such sectarianism does a disservice to Kuala Lumpur, which contains the cultures of Asia and the West in startling new juxtapositions. Consider, for instance, its old railway station, another Moorish extravaganza, partly obscured by a freeway and painted a dazzling white. The curves and planes of its pavilions and archways are still blindingly clear. It is as though Gaudi had been let loose in Kuala Lumpur.
And whatever the intentions of the Malay nationalists, the shiny new buildings speak less of Malay identity than of a city where people know how to be rich, and learn how to spend money. Visiting the city in the 1930s, the French writer Jean Cocteau complained of ''an atmosphere of over-rapid luxury, a glut of gold.'' It still exists, nowhere more garishly than in the malls near the Petronas Towers, each vying to be more elegant than the rest, where white-robed Arabs, reluctant to travel to Western countries, stand checking their BlackBerrys while their wives, covered head to toe in black, shop for lingerie.
Freeways lead out of the rotting city core to the suburbs in the hills, where big S.U.V.'s hide behind foliage rich with jasmines and jacaranda. Here live the millionaire businessmen and the diplomats in burglar-alarmed homes with sprinklers swishing away and Filipino maids in the kitchen. Here are the smart cafes and restaurants where you can find practically every major cuisine respectably represented.
At dinner one evening in the elegant suburb of Damansara Heights, the city's lights ablaze below us, guests argued passionately about Malaysia's frustratingly racial politics and small-minded politicians, who, they say, keep the country from realizing its full potential. Our host, Karim Raslan, one of the shrewdest pundits on Southeast Asia, cited it as one of the reasons why he spends half of his time working and living in Indonesia.
It was left to me, an outsider, to point out that Malaysia was a country still relatively untouched by the many violent conflicts of class, caste, ethnicity and region that make the rise of India and China less self-evident than it looks. Malaysia is a middle-income country with a small population (28 million). There are no cruel disparities between rich and poor here; KL has none of the utter destitution that blights the downtowns of Indian cities. Though flawed and rowdy, Malaysia's democracy is preferable to the nanny authoritarian state of neighboring Singapore, and it has lately thrown up some promising young politicians.
The most famous of them - the American-educated Nurul Izzah Anwar, known as the ''Reformist Princess'' - represents the posh KL suburb of Bangsar in the Malaysian Parliament. She told me that a young generation of globalized politicians and activists long to move beyond the petty concerns of their elders to a post-racial future. This political enlightenment will obviously take time. For now, KL's thinkers and writers forge their own, somewhat lonely paths in a materialist city that is not hospitable to activities other than making - and spending - money.
The visual arts are more connected to a rapidly growing economy, and they're experiencing a mini-boom here. The clean white spaces of Bangsar's Valentine Willie Fine Art Gallery express a confidence that I first came across in Hong Kong's galleries, just before Chinese art rose to international prominence. Its director of programs, Eva McGovern, who left a job at the Serpentine Gallery in London to work in KL, told me that the region around Malaysia - Indonesia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand - was being knit together very fast, helped by low-cost airlines that flew to small cities and towns not only in China but across the vast Indonesian archipelago (much of which shares the Malay language with Malaysia). Artists can be discovered and exhibit their work in a way that was nearly impossible before, she said.
It's true that KL won't become famous overnight for its culture - even if, like Abu Dhabi and Qatar, it frantically buys up a lot of it. For now, this remains a city of modest pleasures, of malls and night markets. Indeed, its most resonant message to the world is to eat well and variously.
Then again, KL is still something of an experiment in urban living. Looking out of my hotel window on my last evening in Malaysia, when rain and mist veiled the tall, silvery buildings and the thickly forested hills behind them, I could imagine the land to be as empty and untenanted as its first explorers may have found it. The illusion disappeared as I walked through the old entertainment hub at Bukit Bintang. Now colorfully seedy with backpacker hostels, massage parlors and malls, it crackled with all the languages I can recognize, and more: Bahasa Indonesia, Filipino, Urdu, Bengali, Arabic and Persian, as well as English spoken with a variety of accents, from the broad Australian to the singsong Sri Lankan and the lovely Malay lilt. I left Kuala Lampur convinced that here in the heart of the new Asia, the city is working out a way of being reflexively cosmopolitan, truly Indochine.
ESSENTIALS KUALA LUMPUR
HOTELSMandarin Oriental Kuala Lumpur City Centre; 011-60-3-2179-8818; doubles from about $185. Ritz-Carlton 168, Jalan Imbi; 011-60-3-2142-8000; doubles from $185. The Westin 199, Jalan Bukit Bintang; 011-60-3-2731-8333, doubles from $120.
RESTAURANTS AND BARSCilantro Upscale French-Japanese fusion. MiCasa All Suite Hotel, 368-B, Jalan Tun Razak; 011-60-3-2179-8082. Delicious Casual organic cafe. Bangsar Village II ; 011-60-3-2287-1554. Kampachi Sushi and other rarefied Japanese dishes. Equatorial Hotel, Jalan Sultan Ismail; 011-60-3-2161-7777. Li Yen Fancy Chinese. 168 Jalan Imbi; 011-60-3-2141-8000. Saravana Bhavan Vegetarian southern Indian. 52 Jalan Maarof, Bangsar; 011-60-3- 2287-1228. No Black Tie A great club for live music. 17 Jalan Mesui; 011-60-3-2142-3737.
SHOPSFor local shopping, don't miss Petaling Street in Chinatown, the covered Central Market (with charming handicrafts), Little India for street vendors selling fresh flowers, and Kinokuniya at the KLCC Mall (with perhaps the best bookstore in Asia. Valentine Willie Fine in Bangsar is a stylish little gallery indicative of KL's growing art scene (1st Floor, 17 Jalan Telawi 3, Bangsar Baru, 011-60-3-2284-2348).SIGHTS AND ARCHITECTUREBukit Bintang is the Times Square - though not quite - of Kuala Lampur, with small eateries, foot-massage parlors and big malls. The signage alone is worth a trip. To experience Kuala Lampur's amazingly wide range of architecture, head to KLCC Park (a stellar view of the Petronas Towers); Merdeka Square (a surreal view of enclosing tall buildings, with practically every style from high colonial to Islamic modernist represented); the Jamek Mosque (a Moghul-style mosque built by a British architect); the Moorish-style Old Railway Station; Maybank Building (a fascinating instance of modern Islamic architecture); the Maha Mariamman Temple in Chinatown (one of KL's oldest Hindu temples); and Chan See Shu Yuen, a Chinese clan temple in Chinatown. The best view of KL as a whole can be had in the posh hilly suburb of Damansara Heights.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Growth spurt: The old neighborhood of Kampung Baru, with the new Kuala Lumpur in the distance.
Colonial life: A shop house from Kuala Lumpur's days as a trading mecca now houses a curry restaurant.
 Cheek by jowl: An apartment block in Little India, home to a multifaith population. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN SOH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RIOTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MALAYSIA (96%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



707 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: The Last Jam Session

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
IGNORE the splintered banisters leading up the stoop at 106 Rivington Street. Instead, go down the four steps on the right, push through the graffiti-marked metal door into the basement and gird yourself against the rank smell -- a perfumed mix of sweat and soaked carpet.
The corridor is dark and grim. A saxophone reed sits on a space heater. A lonely air freshener protrudes from the wall. Seven rooms lie off the corridor, including a bathroom for the courageous.
Incongruously, inside these forlorn rooms, some of New York's finest jazz, funk and rock musicians found a home for their work. They led their own bands, hatched plans for dozens of records and served as the musical backbone for well-known performers like Norah Jones and Dizzy Gillespie, Tom Waits and Cyndi Lauper, Enrique Iglesias and Wynton Marsalis.
For 22 years, the basement at 106 Rivington has existed as an under-the-radar practice space and rehearsal studio. But its days are done. 
Last month, the landlord, after receiving numerous citations and fines for building code violations -- a number of them specifically related to the makeshift studio -- let the musicians know they were being evicted. Friday was the deadline.
For the past two weeks, they have been moving out equipment, sometimes showing up for a last rehearsal or jam session. The eviction was no surprise to them, really. In a gentrified Lower East Side of slick hotels, including the Hotel on Rivington across the street and chic boutiques, the musicians frequenting the basement have long known that they would not have the space forever. So most agreed on one thing when they invited a reporter in for a final look: no eulogies and no sad stories about another dying slice of New York. And many were not going to miss its dilapidated state.
''I decided to look at it from kind of a Zen approach,'' said the drummer Van Romaine in a telephone interview from Lubeck, Germany, where he was on tour with Nena -- of ''99 Luftballons'' fame.
''I've been there 22 years,'' said Mr. Romaine, who is Mr. Iglesias's music director. ''We've been on borrowed time. I'm looking at it like we had some great memories and it was a great ride and it's time to move on.''
Jim Orso, 34, a drummer and a more recent arrival, said he had spent many hours practicing in his space while he was not on tour: nearly every day he was in New York City. ''It's kind of heavy that it's ending,'' he said. But, he hastened to add, that is how it is in New York: ''Nothing lasts forever, nothing good included.''
It was a pretty sweet gig while it lasted.
IMAGINE what they had: cheap space in Manhattan, where they could pound on a drum set or crank a guitar amplifier any day, at any hour. Rooms were $500 to $1,000 a month, sometimes split as many as six ways. The city has other rehearsal studios, but most charge by the hour, and musicians often cannot leave their gear in them.
One of the biggest spaces, the Music Building on Eighth Avenue off 39th Street, is hard to move equipment in and out of because of the parking problem in Midtown. Rivington musicians speak disparagingly of it as a noisy supermarket with many amateurs.
And 106 Rivington was so much more than a cheap studio, especially for drummers needing sonic latitude.
''We had a place to go,'' said Tony Mason, 44, another drummer. ''A lot of people called Rivington the most consistent thing they had in their life for 20 years,'' Mr. Mason said. ''It was a place you could count on and go to -- yes, practice -- but you could walk out and there'd be someone there. Some deep friendships have really come out of that place. It's been more than just a rehearsal studio. It's just been a big hang.''
It was also part clubhouse, part job bank, part support group.
Musicians would recommend one another for jobs or find substitutes for engagements when they were on tour. They discovered inspiration walking down the hallway, hearing skilled musicians practicing. ''When I'm at Rivington Street, I'm like, 'Damn, I have to suck it up and start wood-shedding more,' '' said the drummer George Coleman Jr.
He, like several other musicians using the studio, grew up in Manhattan and went to the old High School of Music and Art (now LaGuardia). His father, a saxophonist, played with Miles Davis. Mr. Coleman played with Dakota Staton and Don Braden, and even had a trio called the Rivington Project. Father and son still perform together.
Mr. Coleman said he had received tips from Lewis Nash and Tommy Campbell, former tenants and ''two of the greatest drummers in the world.'' Other established musicians at Rivington included Jeff Watts, Kenny Kirkland and Jojo Mayer, according to current tenants.
Walking down the halls was ''kind of like getting an anonymous lesson,'' said Eve Sicular, 49, a drummer, the leader of Metropolitan Klezmer and Isle of Klezbos, and one of the few women in the studio. ''So much was by osmosis.''
Impromptu jam sessions occasionally took shape, with musicians hanging out in the corridor waiting for a turn, several tenants said.
Drummers also liked the space because they could leave their kits there. And it's hard enough for a saxophone player to practice in a New York apartment. ''Nobody wants to be a drummer's neighbor,'' Mr. Coleman said. Horn, keyboard and guitar players also valued the freedom. ''An important part of researching your sound is playing it at the volume that you want to do it at,'' said Adam Rogers, a guitarist who estimates that he has played on more than 150 records, and with Paul Simon and Michael Brecker.
THE studio was established in 1989 by Fred Tenny, an audio engineer who rented the basement and built the partitions. ''It was an ugly, nasty space,'' Mr. Tenny said.
In the early years, Rivington had all the charms of the Lower East Side in the '90s: drug addicts, crack cocaine, pushers and prostitutes. ''You'd be bringing your drums in at 3 o'clock in the morning and stepping over needles,'' Mr. Coleman said. For a time, a bordello operated upstairs and customers lined up on the staircase outside, reading newspapers. Musicians were inclined to wad up the pay from a performance and hide it in a shoe when coming in late at night.
''It was nasty back then,'' Mr. Romaine said. ''It was right in the middle of the crack epidemic. It was pretty normal to get mugged.''
Mr. Rogers said he and other band members often sat on the front stoop during rehearsal breaks to ''watch what I always thought of as the floor show on the street.''
Mr. Tenny parted company with the building's owner, Sam Wu, in 1993 and went on to run another studio, at 188 Stanton Street, which kept the name Rivington Music Rehearsal Studios and is considerably more upscale. The tenants at 106 Rivington at the time decided to stay.
One, Ibrahim Gurses, a Turkish-born keyboard player and taxi driver known as Ibo, took it upon himself to serve as caretaker. He handled repairs, kept the outside clean and collected the rent, envelopes of cash often left in the rooms, which he passed on to Mr. Wu. (No one answered the phone at the number listed for Mr. Wu in the building's lobby.) His room had a couch, and, Mr. Gurses said, he often slept there.
''I wouldn't regret one inch of it,'' he said of his time at Rivington. ''That's a lifetime experience, having a session with the whole world here.''
THE space had a collective feel. Occasionally, musicians chipped in for repairs. In some rooms, there were fixed schedules for the musicians sharing them; in others, tenants signed up for practice times; and in still others, the tenants used text messages. Rob Heath, a drummer and an informal historian of the studio space, said, ''We keep it really loose.''
But without serious management, the studio grew more decrepit.
''We're the slumlords of this particular domain,'' said Adam Holzman, a keyboard player who used the studio space for 20 years. ''It would sometimes get a little seedy, but we were down there to work, not to make it look nice for Aunt Mabel.''
One afternoon this month, Mr. Holzman, who shared his studio with Mr. Romaine, was rehearsing with a bass player and a drummer. The room had the feel of a suburban playroom, with a low ceiling, a single row of track lighting, soundproofing panels and dark blue industrial carpet. Another smell in the basement, less legal than the other odors, was detectable.
Several years ago, Mr. Romaine said, ''I really pimped the place out.'' He created a sound studio and put his gold records up on the wall. ''It's all coming down now,'' he said.
The next day, the drummer Ben Perowsky, who has worked with Rickie Lee Jones and John Zorn, was setting up for a rehearsal with the rapper TK Wonder in the space that he shared with Mr. Rogers, next to Mr. Holzman and Mr. Romaine. He dislodged a dehumidifier from a storage closet to deal with the damp odor in the space, which was filled with amplifiers and road cases.
In recent years, Mr. Perowsky said, he has used the space more for storage than for practice. ''I sort of grew out of Rivington Street,'' he said, adding that it still felt like an anchor to him.
Mr. Perowsky and Mr. Rogers, alumni of the High School of Music and Art, were founding members of the band Lost Tribe. The band's bass player, Fima Ephron, another alumnus, was the one who told Mr. Perowsky about the Rivington studio. That was typical. Renters almost always came by word of mouth.
Mr. Perowsky recalled battles with a tenant upstairs who, he said, would pour water down through holes in the floor. ''It was loud,'' he conceded. ''I wouldn't want to live upstairs either.''
NOW, only one tenant lives in the building above, Tyler H. Kim, a film crew technician who sells T-shirts stenciled with pictures of jazz musicians. ''When they're down there rocking,'' Mr. Kim said, ''the building shakes.'' He didn't mind so much, he said, adding that he could sleep through anything.
Soon, the New York tide of real estate prosperity crept up and washed over the street. Now it is even hard to unload equipment on a weekend night, given the traffic and crowds of people. All that remains of the old days are a pharmacy on the corner, the retro Economy candy store right next door and the El Castillo de Jagua Latin restaurant across the street, where many musicians ate for years.
As the days dwindled toward the eviction date, few of the Rivington players had much of an idea where they would go. Some were following leads for other spaces. Some said they would try to practice in their apartments. Ms. Sicular found a three-morning-a-week share in Mr. Tenny's place. And there is always the Music Building.
''We were sort of the last of the old dinosaurs there,'' Mr. Mason said. ''It gave you a resemblance of old school New York, which has obviously pretty much been washed out, not that I'm longing for those days. That edginess is really not happening anymore,'' he said.
''It's like mourning the loss of a loved one; I was hanging out there until midnight last night,'' he said on Tuesday. ''I couldn't leave. Me and this other drummer, we were just shaking our heads: 'I can't believe this. This is really happening.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE END: Musicians of every stripe found a home at 106 Rivington Street. Adam Holzman, far left, who used studio space there for 20 years, said, ''It would sometimes get a little seedy.'' A low ceiling, track lighting, soundproofing panels and industrial carpeting were among the amenities. Left, the rapper TK Wonder rehearsed in a room. The landlord was cited and fined for building code violations. (MB1)
PRACTICE: Adam Holzman, left, popped in to visit Ben Perowsky, top. The musicians at 106 Rivington, including horn, keyboard and guitar players, were grateful that they could make as much noise as they liked. ''Nobody wants to be a drummer's neighbor,'' said George Coleman Jr., above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 OWNER: Sam Wu, the landlord, told the musicians the eviction deadline was Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); EVICTION (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); POP & ROCK (75%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



708 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Peddling Your Prose

BYLINE: By NEAL POLLACK. 
Neal Pollack is the author of several books, including, most recently, ''Stretch.'' His self-published novel ''Jewball'' will appear later this year on the Amazon Kindle Store.

 BODY:
Many thousands of years ago, when I was still a whelpish newspaper reporter in Chicago, I did a short profile of a retired television repairman who'd written a memoir entitled ''The Perilous Life of Boris B. Gursky.'' As a boy in Ukraine, Gursky said, he was stepped on by a horse; when he was a young man in Mexico, his stepfather had tried to murder him; and when he was a middle-aged man in Chicago, his ex-wife had clawed his face with her fingernails and threatened him with a loaded pistol. Most perilously, Gursky suffered from prostate cancer. He wrote, ''My body had become so sensitive from staying too long in an environment surrounded with radiation from television sets.''
The book clocked in at fewer than 150 pages. Gursky produced it through a vanity press that he'd seen advertised in Writer's Digest. They sent him a booklet containing a few basic editorial instructions and charged him $10,000. He mailed copies to the Elgin, Ill., public library, the White House and everyone in the United States who shared his last name. Such was the state of self-publishing in 1995. 
In addition to a great many bad books lost to the sands of time, there's also a long history of successful self-published authors getting big deals with major houses. Today, though, self-publication crackles with possibility as never before. Witness the March news that the thriller author Barry Eisler had backed out of a half-million-dollar deal with St. Martin's Press, his new publisher. He'd decided that he could, over time, make more money publishing without their help. Conversely, young Amanda Hocking, she of the vast success generated from self-publishing nine e-books, accepted a seven-figure advance from St. Martin's, the same publisher that had just lost Eisler. Hocking issued a sassy statement that she was tired of answering e-mails all the time and just wanted to write. One way or another, it suddenly seemed that self-publishing was the key to infinite auctorial riches.
It's unlikely that such riches will reach me, but I've decided to give self-publishing a try myself. It seems to be what the kids and Barry Eisler are doing. Within a month or so, I'll finish the first draft of a short novel. Sometime soon after, I plan to release it as an e-book, and there may be a limited-edition print run. We'll see what happens from there.
I wouldn't necessarily recommend this to a first-time author. A self-published book is almost certainly going to end up on the digital slush pile, with fewer readers than the average blog post. But for a writer like me, which is to say, most working writers -- midcareer, midlist, middle-aged, more or less middlebrow, and somewhat Internet savvy -- self-publishing seems to make a lot of sense at this point. Early in my career, because of some lucky breaks and a kinder economy, I was able to get advances that helped me support my family over the months it took to write a book. I haven't been a huge best seller, and I've never seen a residual check except for an independently published book of crime stories that I edited, and that was only because I got nothing up front. But I've built a modest audience and a name. Now that the advances are smaller and the technology is available, why not start appealing directly to those readers?
Stephen King churned up a squall more than a decade ago when he attempted to self-publish a novel called ''The Plant,'' delivering it to fans electronically in separate chunks. But that wasn't a harbinger of revolution. King still publishes his books with a major house, as do all other brand-name authors. Corporate publishers do certain types of books, the ones that have a chance of landing their authors on the ''Today'' show or on the discount table at Costco, quite well. The big-publishing model can work. I currently have a contract, albeit a modest one, to write a nonfiction book for an established publisher, one that's mainstream in concept and execution, with a clear marketing hook. But most books that corporate publishers release will fail to make money, both for the writer and the company.
My self-published product may not be the easiest proposition for mainstream publishers. It will be short, it's about Jews and basketball and bumbling fascists, doesn't involve teenage vampire sex or the Knights Templars, and wouldn't be likely to sustain a $9.99 download price, which is the low end of what publishers are charging now for new e-books. Here are the economics: I'm going to charge five bucks, or $4.99 a download. For every book sold, my online vendor will send me 70 percent of the revenue. In raw dollar amounts, that's more than three times what I'd get from a mainstream publisher for each paperback sale. If I manage to score a thousand downloads, which I almost certainly will at that price point (I have a large family), I'll make 3,500 bucks, and if I get 5,000 downloads, I'm looking at $17,500. Quickly, I'll have earned the equivalent of a pleasant advance for this book. The vendor will pay me monthly, and will allow me to adjust the amount I charge in case my initial calculations are wrong.
Overhead will also be low. If I need to cover upfront costs, I can always wage a modest campaign on the grassroots online fund-raising phenomenon Kickstarter, which has worked for me before. Meanwhile, a guy from my fantasy football league, a talented editor who put out dozens of works of crime fiction when he ran an indie noir publishing house in Los Angeles, where I live, will be editing the manuscript for nothing. He's now interested in learning the /e-publishing game. In exchange, he says, if the book really starts to sell, I can buy him a few beers. I like those terms.
There will be other expenses to consider -- cover art, a plane ticket to the East Coast if I decide to do readings and on-the-ground media in New York and Philadelphia, where most of the book is set -- but such expenses can be handled by bartering and frequent-flier miles. As for publicity, I'm going to have to get out there and sell the book myself, which I've done before. I won't be appearing on ''The View,'' or even ''The Talk,'' but that wasn't going to happen anyway. Therefore, I'm trying an experiment. I encourage other writers to join me so I don't feel like a total idiot.
I'm sure it'll go well enough, and am almost as sure that I'll self-publish again, because it seems that's the way the world is going. As the late Boris B. Gursky once told me: ''When I start doing something I never quit. I keep doing it, doing it, day and night, doing it until I finish. I've been like that all my life. That is my way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KRISTINA DIMATTEO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (88%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); STEPPARENTS (71%); PROSTATE DISEASE (71%); PROSTATE CANCER (69%); LIBRARIES (68%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (68%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



709 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
WITH IRAQ WITHDRAWAL NEAR,
WORRIES OVER THE MISSING
As it has turned over scores of other tasks, like running convoys, flying helicopters and tracking incoming mortar fire, the American military will soon leave the job of determining the fate of those missing in Iraq largely to civilians. A nagging uncertainty about the fate of eight missing men has left their families afraid that they will never find answers. PAGE 6
ANXIETY IN GOLAN HEIGHTS
In the two months since the outbreak of the uprising in Syria, the Arabs of the Druze religious sect who live in Majdal Shams in the Golan Heights have been preoccupied with, and divided by, events on the other side of the fence. Modern communications have made contact with relatives much easier, yet have done little to make an already convoluted reality any less complicated. PAGE 6 
PROTESTING DESPITE A BAN
Tens of thousands of protesters across Spain continued their sit-ins and protests against established political parties in defiance of a ban against such protests and ahead of Sunday's regional and municipal elections. PAGE 12
15 DIE IN PAKISTAN BLAST
At least 15 people were killed when a damaged oil tanker carrying fuel for NATO forces in Afghanistan exploded in the northwestern tribal region, government officials said. PAGE 8
MEETING OF ASIAN LEADERS
The leaders of Japan, China and South Korea gathered to smooth out differences over Japan's handling of its nuclear crisis. Ahead of a trilateral summit meeting, the leaders gathered in the city of Fukushima, just 40 miles from the crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, which suffered severe damage from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. PAGE 14
National
DOCTOR IN VERMONT PUSHES
FOR SINGLE-PAYER CARE
Though scores of people pushed for a bill that sets Vermont on the path to a single-payer health system -- the nation's first such experiment -- Deb Richter was the most actively involved doctor, and her persistence played a crucial role in its expected passage, set for Thursday. PAGE 21
HOUSE'S DEMOCRATIC ROOKIES
In the sprawling class of 96 House freshmen, just 9 are Democrats, dubbing themselves ''the noble nine.'' But the Democrats, a cheerful coterie, have learned to embrace small victories, work hard and keep their eyes fixed firmly on their districts. PAGE 16
WEST POINT SPEECH ON TRUST
Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, warned the Army's newest class of leaders that the armed forces risked being misunderstood by a civilian population that was isolated from military service and could not grasp the rigors, and horrors, of combat. PAGE 18
Metropolitan
EVICTION SHUTS DOWN
A REHEARSAL SPACE
For 22 years, the basement at 106 Rivington Street has been an under-the-radar practice space and rehearsal studio, and it was there that some of New York's finest jazz, funk and rock musicians found a home for their work. But its days are done. PAGE 1
COMICS AND POLITICS
At a periodic stage show, ''Laughing Liberally,'' stand-up comedians perform material drawn from the liberal end of the political spectrum. The City Critic offered the comics a challenge: Given a secret phrase, each had to work it into the act seamlessly. PAGE 1
Sports
POWER OF SPORT
AIDS THE WOUNDED
The second annual Warrior Games, an Olympic-style event for wounded, injured and ill service members and veterans, was born of the idea that sports play a critical role in helping wounded service members recover physically and psychologically. PAGE 9
AN UNLIKELY COACH
Greg Anderson, Barry Bonds's former personal trainer, is an assistant coach for a a squad of 11- and 12-year-olds in Burlingame, Calif. Some parents of the league's players glowed about his ability to teach the game to their sons, while others wondered how he could qualify for the volunteer role. He is a convicted felon, infamous for being the trainer who supplied and injected Bonds and other elite athletes with performance-enhancing drugs. PAGE 4
DRUGS AND HORSE RACING
The horse racing industry is facing the threat of federal government involvement to outlaw race-day medications, while it attempt to deal with the most debilitating of its problems -- a drug-culture image among fans and bettors. The Rail. PAGE 3
THE METS' FIERCE COMPETITOR
Behind his calm exterior, New York Mets' General Manager Sandy Alderson is a calculating baseball analyst who many people assume will make the key trades meant to enhance the team's future over its present. But Alderson is also a fierce competitor, and his penetrating desire to win this year puts him in no hurry to make any potential deal that would adversely affect the 2011 team. PAGE 5
Obituaries
LEONARD KASTLE, 82
He was an opera composer who unexpectedly found a niche in film history as the writer and director of the low-budget 1969 crime-thriller film ''The Honeymoon Killers.'' PAGE 24
Sunday Business
THE GUARD DOG TO THE STARS,
LEGALLY SPEAKING, AT LEAST
Martin Singer and his law firm have emerged as Hollywood's foremost protectors of the unlikeliest of underdogs: celebrities who seem to have it all. His claim to fame? Killing, or maiming, unflattering stories. Page 1
THE PRIZE FOR INNOVATION
The Internet is revitalizing an old stalwart in the innovation game: the prize as incentive. Perhaps the most far-reaching effort, however, comes from the federal government. Legislation passed in December, the America Competes Act, gives government agencies far greater freedom to sponsor prize contests with purses of up to $50 million. Page 3
FOREIGN STOCK ALLURE WANES
A stronger dollar, weaker commodity prices and faster growth in the American economy may help United States equity markets outperform foreign stocks, analysts say. Page 7
THE WISDOM OF HAGGLING
Many job seekers would be thrilled to be offered a job at all. How ungrateful and even risky, they may feel, to haggle over salary when the unemployment rate is so high. But failing to negotiate can be a mistake that reverberates for years, say experts. Page 8
Automobiles
TESTING THE FIAT 500
ON A TOUR OF AMERICA'S ITALY
The high-profile introduction of the Fiat 500 to the United States this year holds the promise of a long-awaited brand renaissance. The quest to plumb the 500's inner beauty involved a long drive with stops in Naples, Verona, Florence, Rome and Venice. At least, their United States counterparts. Sports, Page 11
Magazine
RETELLING A VERY OLD STORY
FOR A TEENAGE AUDIENCE
Every culture has told some version of the story, from Ovid to Michael J. Fox. But can a souped-up, sexed-up MTV werewolf win over a generation that takes its monsters very, very seriously? Page 34
MONEY COWBOYS OF BAGHDAD
Iraq is still very dangerous, though not dangerous enough to scare off investors with an appetite for risk. Page 28
Book Review
AN UNCOMMON READER,
AND A VIRTUAL SWAN SONG
With almost 40 books behind him and nearly as many honors, Harold Bloom has written ''The Anatomy of Influence'' as a kind of summing up. Page 1
Arts & Leisure
THE QUEEN POP
NEEDS HER TO BE
Lady Gaga says popular culture is her religion, and she drives herself relentlessly to make that point. Page 1
A SCREENWRITER, MAD AS HELL
Thirty-five years after the film ''Network,'' a venomous satire on the television industry, was released it still retains its influence, writes Dave Itzkoff. Its sense of purpose is matched only by the files its author left behind. Page 1
T: Magazine
TRAVELING TO MOROCCO
FOR OLD SCHOOL DECADENCE
With Marrakesh being the new Miami, Tangier remains the destination du jour for romantic dropouts. Page 112
Editorial
MALIGN NEGLECT FOR VICTIMS
OF TORTURE IN THE COURTS
President Obama has adopted the Bush administration's tactic of using wildly broad claims of state secrets to thwart any accountability for the practice of extraordinary rendition. So the only hope was that the courts would not permit these widely known abuses of power to go unchecked. Last Monday, the Supreme Court abdicated that duty. Week in Review, Page 7
HAUNTED BY MEDICARE VOTE
The Republican plan to radically reshape Medicare is alienating fence-sitting voters and highlighting the sharp differences between the two parties' visions of government. In Western New York and elsewhere, Republicans struggle to defend their Medicare plan. Week in Review, Page 7
TOMORROW IN NEW PASTURES
A woman wonders what her horses will feel when they find themselves turned loose in a pasture they've spent 13 long years contemplating. Week in Review, Page 7
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The Syrian regime that has been so accustomed to being in control is getting a taste of what it's like to lose it. Week in Review, Page 8
MAUREEN DOWD
It takes a village to welcome a president. It takes a country to forgive a monarchy. Week in Review, Page 8
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Think you know what the Bible says about social issues like abortion and same-sex marriage? Take this quiz. Week in Review, Page 9
Week in Review
LOOKING AT THE MYTH
OF THE SEXIST PIG
The question in many women's minds last week, writes Benedict Carey, was the same cry of outrage that hangs over every male sex scandal, ''How could he be such a pig?'' Men might ask themselves if all that power would change them. The answer in most cases is not a corruptor, but a facilitator for a minority of men who feel entitled to have their way to dominate others, say social scientists and therapists. Week in Review, Page 1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HELICOPTERS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POLITICS (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CITIES (72%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (71%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (70%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ELECTIONS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); POWER PLANTS (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (64%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%); TSUNAMIS (63%); POP & ROCK (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); JAZZ & BLUES (60%); RELIGION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



710 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: How Good Are American Colleges?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Your So-Called Education'' (Op-Ed, May 15) is a timely warning. Richard Arum and Josipa Roksa, the distinguished authors of ''Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses,'' did not offer soothing pieties about American higher education as the envy of the world and the sound investment for future success.
We learn instead that 36 percent of the graduates -- many with quite good grades -- showed no significant gains in complex reasoning or writing abilities. 
It is easy to connect the dots between a vacuous college curriculum and the rising number of students who graduate with huge debt and no job prospects. Mr. Arum and Ms. Roksa call on trustees to hold administrators accountable for student learning. Trustees need to be fiduciaries of academic quality more than they need to be fund-raisers and cheerleaders. They need to demand genuine core requirements that ensure intellectual growth.
And shame on the college accrediting agencies that have allowed colleges to give students a diet of gut courses and to substitute opaque ad hoc assessment systems in place of the clear metrics that informed ''Academically Adrift.''
Honest diagnosis is the beginning of higher education's improvement. The remedy for the academically adrift is not more money; it is academic integrity and leadership.
MICHAEL POLIAKOFF Vice President for Policy, American Council of Trustees and Alumni Washington, May 16, 2011
To the Editor:
Richard Arum and Josipa Roksa lament the lack of academic rigor on college campuses. For many students academics are neither the most important nor the most valuable part of college. If they looked, the writers would find rigor on every athletic team, in all the theater productions, in each of the art classes, in student government and on the school newspaper. These are valuable college experiences that can lead many to productive careers. Often they are more meaningful than sitting in lecture classes with 600 other students.
LARRY SCHLACK Kalamazoo, Mich., May 16, 2011
The writer is associate professor emeritus in the department of education leadership at Western Michigan University.
To the Editor:
In your May 15 issue, I could not help but link Richard Arum and Josipa Roksa's Op-Ed article, ''Your So-Called Education,'' to the Sunday Styles article ''Fast-Tracking to Kindergarten.'' Mr. Arum and Ms. Roksa lament that college students do not improve their writing and reasoning skills while in school. Their answer: increase the time students spend studying and ratchet up the reading and writing assignments.
Then consider the pained and puzzled look on the face of a 3-year-old girl in the ''Fast-Tracking'' article as she struggles to match round orange letter discs with letters splayed across a cardboard sheet before her. Research shows that she will not gain much from her intense preschool efforts. Less formal education and more time playing are better solutions.
It appears, then, that we are paying big money to educate our youth but failing at both ends of the pipeline and for opposite reasons. Our college students are not dedicating enough time to studying, and our early learners are spending too much time in formal academic tutoring.
But, here's the point: It's not the amount of time that counts, but how we use it.
The skills we so desperately need to foster in our students will develop if we focus on these three areas: quality teaching, parental involvement and enhanced learning through modern technology. These solutions will take time, but that would be time well spent.
KAREN GROSS President, Southern Vermont College Bennington, Vt., May 15, 2011
To the Editor:
Richard Arum and Josipa Roksa ask, ''Why is the overall quality of undergraduate learning so poor?'' A better question would be: Do our colleges teach students what they need to know to thrive in a fiercely competitive, globalized world?
The evidence is mixed. American unemployment is high, even among college graduates, and there's a constant fear that other countries are ''out-educating'' us, as President Obama has said.
At the same time, the United States has a virtual monopoly on the world's best universities -- 72 out of the top 200 universities around the globe are in the United States, according to the latest rankings by Times Higher Education, a British publication. America remains a premier destination for the world's smartest students.
Professors Arum and Roksa assume, wrongly in my opinion, that quantitative measurements -- like the number of pages that students must read or write in a given course -- accurately reveal whether a course is rigorous and whether students learn something of value.
A student can get a wonderful, or terrible, education at just about any institution, depending on the courses she takes, the professors from whom she learns and the amount of effort she invests.
JUSTIN SNIDER New York, May 15, 2011
The writer teaches undergraduate writing at Columbia University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOPOS GRAPHICS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); ACCREDITATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); THEATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



711 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN SHEEPSHEAD BAY, BROOKLYN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Calm and Clamor, in Equal Measure

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
ON a sunny day, with a cool breeze blowing off the water and people sitting at sidewalk tables sipping tea from small glasses, Emmons Avenue in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, could almost be in Istanbul -- or even in the Ukrainian port city of Odessa. Which may explain why so many Turkish and Ukrainian immigrants have made themselves at home among the swirl of ethnicities in this rambling neighborhood at the city's southern edge.
A few blocks inland, though, the atmosphere is strictly Brooklyn: blocks of low-rise brick row houses, interspersed with six- and seven-story apartment buildings and larger houses on larger lots. It is, people who live there say, a hospitable place to raise a family and stay for decades, though it is both livelier and more crowded than it used to be.
Tom Scalese, the corresponding secretary of the Sheepshead Bay-Plumb Beach Civic Association and a resident for most of his 74 years, raised four children in a Queen Anne house on East 21st Street. Today, he said, parking is sometimes a problem, and he lamented that there were fewer fishing boats docked in the bay that gives the neighborhood its name. But there are still several vessels offering morning-trippers the chance to catch fluke, blackfish, striped bass, porgies and more. 
Now, Mr. Scalese said of the waterfront, ''it's a party-time place,'' with as many boats dedicated to scenic New York Harbor cruises or offering their services for weddings, parties and corporate events.
Either way, he added, ''this is a water town. The breeze from the ocean is a real winner, it's great. It's always warmer here in the winter, cooler in the summer.''
Ned Berke, the editor of the local news blog Sheepshead Bites, saw the neighborhood as appealing for being quieter and less dense than areas closer to Manhattan -- but with more varied housing, and more shopping and dining options -- than nearby residential neighborhoods like Mill Basin and Bergen Beach.
''In sum,'' Mr. Berke wrote in an e-mail, ''it's one of the best places families can choose to live in NYCwithout the hectic vibe of dense neighborhoods, or the sluggish disconnect of solely residential pockets.''
The housing balance, some residents say, began to tip a little in the middle of the last decade with the arrival of higher-rise condominium development, especially near Emmons Avenue, along the water. Complaints about the condos, Mr. Berke said, tend to focus on the strain that they put on parking, and on city services like trash pickup.
Another issue, said Theresa Scavo, the chairwoman of Community Board 15, which represents the area, is that as a result of the economic downturn, many of the buildings have had trouble attracting residents, others have failed to deliver on promised amenities like pools or even a marina, and still others never got off the ground.
In some cases, Ms. Scavo said, developers are stuck: having paid a premium for their lots, they can't lower prices sufficiently on unsold units.
''The buildings look beautiful, really beautiful,'' she said. ''Except when you look at them at night, you realize there are no lights on in them.''
Even worse is the fate of sites like the one at Avenue Z and East 15th Street. There, Ms. Scavo said, a developer paid millions for a lot to build a condo tower, and plans fizzled.
''Since 2004 it's sitting as an empty piece of property with a chain-link fence around it,'' she said. ''It's a chain-link fence, weeds and garbage.''
In most of the neighborhood, though, life is untroubled and residents' complaints are mild, Ms. Scavo said.
Summarizing what she described as the local disposition, she added: '' 'As long as I go out to dinner, I can find a parking spot, that's fine.' That's it. Their wish list is very limited.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
The busiest commercial strip -- livelier than Emmons Avenue -- is Sheepshead Bay Road near the subway.
In all, according to census figures, roughly 80,000 people live in the two-square-mile area bounded by Ocean Parkway to the west, Knapp Street to the east, Avenue U to the north and the bay to the south. About three-quarters are white; a large minority are Asian.
One- and two-family houses predominate at the western end, toward Ocean Parkway, and there are more co-op and condominium buildings near the middle, near Ocean Avenue. To the east of Ocean Avenue is a lower-density area of attached and semidetached houses.
Delton Cheng, an agent at Century 21 Homefront, says members of various ethnic groups cluster in different parts of the neighborhood. For example, he said, Chinese immigrants in general prefer to be close to the subway, while Russian immigrants look for properties within walking distance of the water.
In general, residents said, the varied ethnic and religious populations coexist peacefully, though a vocal subset has been protesting the construction of a mosque on Voorhies Avenue, and someone recently vandalized a fence there with references to Osama Bin Laden. The lot has been the site of protests, and this month a judge denied a local group's efforts to stop the mosque.
An element more reflective of the neighborhood's attitude toward newcomers, some residents say, is Emmons Avenue's row of restaurants -- among them Masal, for Turkish fare; Yiasou Estiatorio for Greek food; and Randazzo's Clam Bar, a venerable Italian-American seafood house.
One of those newcomers, Stephanie Walker, who moved into a cottage near the water in 2010, cited the restaurants and ethnic grocery stores as one of the area's main draws, along with the easy commute it provides to her job as chief librarian at Brooklyn College.
She said she and her husband, John, ''thought we were going to have to move out to Long Island or Staten Island, and we didn't have to.''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
Josephine Liascas, an associate broker and a vice president of Fillmore Real Estate, says one-family houses in good condition can sell for $500,000 to $575,000, and two-family houses start around $600,000. Mr. Cheng, of Century 21, says two-families can reach $900,000.
Realtor.com tallies 180 single- and multifamily houses for sale, as well as 274 condo, co-op and town-house units. In the real estate boom, Mr. Cheng said, condos sold for over $500 a square foot. Now prices are $400 to $450 a foot, which translates to $350,000 for a typical one-bedroom, $450,000 for a two-bedroom and $600,000 for a three-bedroom. Ms. Walker said she and her husband, who had been living in Midwood, had benefited from the weakened market. They paid $339,000 for their house, which neighbors said would have cost $500,000 a few years earlier.
Rentals are generally around $1,200 a month for one-bedrooms and around $1,600 for two-bedrooms.
WHAT TO DO
Wealthy Manhattan Beach, with its small beach of the same name, is across a footbridge from Emmons Avenue, and the beaches at Coney Island and Brighton Beach are just to the west. A small park along East 24th Street has a busy playground and handball courts. And, of course, there is the bay.
''You can walk,'' Ms. Liascas said. ''There's something to look at. There are beautiful swans in that water, and people just like to see that -- peace and tranquillity.''
THE COMMUTE
The B and Q stop at Gravesend Neck and Sheepshead Bay Roads, and Avenue U. In good times, the B runs express through Brooklyn, with half-hour rides to Midtown. But station repairs elsewhere on the line have rendered it local until at least fall.
The Belt Parkway runs parallel to Emmons Avenue near the southern edge of the area. Bus routes to the middle of Brooklyn and beyond run along Nostrand and Coney Island Avenues, and an express bus runs to Manhattan.
THE SCHOOLS
Public School 52, which serves more than 700 students through Grade 5, earned a B on its most recent progress report, with 46.1 percent of tested students proficient in English, 66.6 percent in math. Public School 254, on Avenue Y, got an A, with 72.6 percent proficient in English and 90.6 percent in math.
Public School 209 serves more than 600 students through eighth grade. It got a C on its progress report, with 49.5 percent proficient in English, 68.4 percent in math. Public School 206, also through eighth grade, got an A, with 71.8 percent proficient in English, 85.2 percent in math.
One middle school, Junior High School 14 on Batchelder Street, got a C on its report, with 24.5 percent proficient in English, 31.4 percent in math. Sheepshead Bay High School has more than 2,000 students, and got a C. SAT averages last year were 380 in reading, 416 in math and 380 in writing, versus 439, 462 and 434 citywide.
THE HISTORY
The area was once the site of a Canarsee Indian village, according to the Encyclopedia of New York City. It first drew seaside visitors in the years after the Civil War, and in the early 20th century was home to a horse racing track.
In the 1930s, the city made efforts to revitalize the area around the bay, widening Emmons Avenue and restoring buildings. The Brooklyn Eagle described the results, at the time, as ''clean, tidy and practically odorless.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AFLOAT: Single-family houses line the dockside of Sheepshead Bay, with multi-unit dwellings in the distance. A busy area that is home to various ethnicities, it retains a tranquillity, in part because of the water. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); FAMILY (76%); CHILDREN (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (73%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



712 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneur's Ambitious Plans Go Up in Smoke

BYLINE: By ZUSHA ELINSON. 
zelinson@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
The letters in his first name stand for ''yes and no.'' His last name, also the creation of hippie parents, is ''maybe'' spelled backward. It's perhaps fitting, then, that Yan Ebyam came to be neck deep in the murky, quasi-legal world of Oakland's marijuana-growing industry.
It is an industry that blossomed in the oversize metal warehouses of old-line Oakland businesses. Established trucking, plumbing and construction companies, scrambling for work in a down economy, opened their doors to Mr. Ebyam's cannabis farms, thought to be the largest in the city. His workers, mostly the bud-trimmers who assure the highest-quality medical marijuana, were organized by the Teamsters.
But the failure of the statewide marijuana legalization initiative last fall, and subsequent threats from federal prosecutors, derailed the ambitious plan of city leaders to license four giant farms and thus make Oakland the legal cannabis capital of the country. And with the collapse of Oakland's vision of marijuana supremacy came disaster for Mr. Ebyam. 
Mr. Ebyam is now locked in litigation over the $1.25 million sale of one of his growing operations, and another installation has been decimated by a string of suspicious burglaries -- a fitting symbol, perhaps, of an industry that could have been.
''The morality tale of Yan's grows is perhaps the morality tale of the Oakland ordinance,'' said James Anthony, a medical marijuana lawyer in Oakland. ''The size, the money -- it all attracted too much attention.''
Mr. Ebyam, 33, does not fit the profile of the smooth new-wave entrepreneur. He blurts out his thoughts in rapid fire and is highly intelligent but pays little attention to matters like clothing or social cues. During a recent interview at a coffee shop, Mr. Ebyam, a stocky man with short, curly black hair, didn't want espresso or cappuccino. He ordered milk and cookies.
In terms of background, Mr. Ebyam seems to have been born for his profession. His parents, who gave him his odd name, grew marijuana to put food on the table while raising him in Willits in Mendocino County, he said. But Mr. Ebyam rebelled against his hippie upbringing, seeking his fortune instead in Silicon Valley.
''When we were little, my brother surfed and I played computer games,'' Mr. Ebyam recalled.
In his early 20s, he went into the business of buying and selling computer equipment from bankrupt start-ups. His venture ended badly when he was arrested and pleaded guilty to money laundering in the sale of more than $6 million worth of stolen Sun Microsystems servers and Cisco routers. He was sentenced to two and a half years in federal prison, where, he said, he became an expert chess and Scrabble player.
Mr. Ebyam showed up in Oakland as the medical marijuana bubble was inflating three years ago. He started small but quickly broadened his ambitions, becoming partners with a Los Angles lawyer named Nathan Hoffman. The plan was to grow marijuana on a large scale and sell it to patients in Los Angeles. (Mr. Ebyam said his mother was ''amused'' that he had gone into the business.)
Searching for a warehouse, Mr. Ebyam met with Jeff Wilcox, a businessman who had been a leading advocate for the Oakland marijuana farm legislation. Mr. Wilcox said he was not impressed with the business plan but that Mr. Ebyam was memorable.
''He seemed really smart, but he was a little different socially,'' Mr. Wilcox recalled. ''He was going a mile a minute, and he talked a lot -- about everything under the sun.''
Mr. Ebyam eventually struck a deal with the Nurisso family, which boasts four generations of Bay Area plumbers. The Nurissos run Broadway Mechanical-Contractors, an industrial plumbing and metal fabrication company, and have big warehouses around their headquarters in East Oakland.
Ken Nurisso said the family had decided to lease to a cannabis grower because ''there's never been a harder time for commercial real estate to be leased out.''
Mr. Ebyam's setup was enormous: a total of 454 grow lights in 16 rooms, according to court documents. Industry experts say that 20 to 40 plants can be grown with one light, and an average marijuana-growing installation in Oakland uses about 10 lights.
There were problems from the start. The first crop was heavily damaged by bugs, Mr. Ebyam said. The second crop was on its way when, Mr. Ebyam alleged, Fred Nurisso threatened to shut off the electricity in an effort to take over the business. Mr. Nurisso disputed the account, saying that Mr. Ebyam and his partners had been behind on the rent and the utility bills, and that a new business arrangement had been needed.
In early 2010, a company run by the Nurissos agreed to buy the operation for $1.25 million, according to a lawsuit filed by Mr. Ebyam and Mr. Hoffman. They claimed they were never paid all the money.
In court filings, a Nurisso lawyer countered that the operation never produced the $1 million marijuana crop that had been promised. In fact, the lawyer wrote, ''proceeds were significantly lower than $1 million and took three months to sell.''
In an interview last week, Ken Nurisso said they were no longer in the medical marijuana business.
Mr. Ebyam's next growing venture made national news. He moved into another East Oakland warehouse, 40,000 square feet in a building owned by a trucking company. It was the first grow operation in the country to be unionized, by the Teamsters, who won pensions, health care and a $25-an-hour wage for 40 workers. Lou Marchetti, the boss of Teamsters Local 70, was interviewed live on ABC, and an amused news anchor chuckled about the ''marijuana farmers union.''
Oakland city officials, in the midst of drafting their ill-fated cannabis farm ordinance, toured the facility. They were hoping to permit four farms like Mr. Ebyam's and rake in millions in tax revenue for the city. With the help of the Teamsters' political connections, Mr. Ebyam was hoping to win one of the permits.
But the publicity turned out to be a curse. A string of thefts and break-ins at the warehouse quickly followed. In court filings, Mr. Hoffman said the thieves had made off with $125,000 worth of marijuana.
Mr. Ebyam said he decided to move from his condo in San Francisco and into the warehouse in the fall of 2010 to help stand guard. He dragged a mattress into the office and brought a powerful foghorn that he used to scare off thieves who clambered onto the roof trying to get in.
But the break-ins took their toll. Mr. Ebyam fought with his business partners. At the same time, Mr. Ebyam's personal assistant, Julie Du, sued him, claiming sexual harassment and nonpayment of the $120,000 salary she said she had been promised.
Mr. Ebyam dismissed the claims, saying, ''I made the mistake of hiring an ex-girlfriend.''
Toward the end of 2010, Oakland city officials put the cannabis farm plans on ice after federal prosecutors threatened legal action. At Mr. Ebyam's East Oakland operation, the work force has dwindled from 40 to 8.
As the city's ordinance fell apart, Mr. Ebyam left Oakland. Although he is still a part owner of the grow operation, his whereabouts and what he is up to are a mystery to many.
Mr. Ebyam implied that he was still in the medical marijuana business but refused to say where. ''After last time, I think it's better that way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The industrial area in Oakland. The marijuana-growing industry blossomed in the warehouses there but ran into problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE BAY CITIZEN)
 Yan Ebyam, 33, grower. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); LITIGATION (88%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (76%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); SENTENCING (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); PRISONS (71%); BURGLARY (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); ARRESTS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (64%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (63%); BOARD GAMES (63%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%)

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



713 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Need Therapy? A Good Man Is Hard to Find

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Between unresolved family conflicts, relationship struggles and his mixed-race identity, James Puckett had enough on his mind in college that he sought professional help. But after bouncing from one therapist to another, he still felt stuck.
''They were all female, and they did give me some comfort,'' said Mr. Puckett, 30, who works for a domestic-abuse program in Wisconsin. ''But I was getting the same rhetoric about changing my behavior without any challenge to see the bigger picture of what was behind these very male coping reactions, like putting your hand through a wall.''
He decided to seek out a male therapist instead, and found that there were few of them. ''I'm just glad I ended up with the person I did,'' said Mr. Puckett, who is no longer in therapy, ''because for me it made all the difference.''
Researchers began tracking the ''feminization'' of mental health care more than a generation ago, when women started to outnumber men in fields like psychology and counseling. Today the takeover is almost complete. 
Men earn only one in five of all master's degrees awarded in psychology, down from half in the 1970s. They account for less than 10 percent of social workers under the age of 34, according to a recent survey. And their numbers have dwindled among professional counselors -- to 10 percent of the American Counseling Association's membership today from 30 percent in 1982 -- and appear to be declining among marriage and family therapists.
Some college psychology programs cannot even attract male applicants, much less students. And at many therapists' conferences, attendees with salt-and-pepper beards wander the hallways as lonely as peaceniks at a gun fair.
The result, many therapists argue, is that the profession is at risk of losing its appeal for a large group of sufferers -- most of them men -- who would like to receive therapy but prefer to start with a male therapist.
''There's a way in which a guy grows up that he knows some things that women don't know, and vice versa,'' said David Moultrup, a psychotherapist in Belmont, Mass. ''But that male viewpoint has been so devalued in the course of empowering little girls for the past 40 or 50 years that it is now all but lost in talk therapy. Society needs to have the choice, and the choice is being taken away.''
The reasons for the shift are economic as well as cultural, most people in these professions agree. Managed care took a bite out of therapists' incomes in the 1990s. Psychiatry, the most male-dominated corner of therapy, increasingly turned to drug treatments. And as women entered the work force in greater numbers, they proved to be more drawn to the talking cure than men -- in giving the treatment as well as in receiving it.
''Usually women get blamed when a profession loses status, but in this case the trend started first, and men just evacuated,'' said Dorothy Cantor, a former president of American Psychological Association who conducted a landmark study of gender and psychology in 1995. ''Women moved up into the field and took their place.''
The impact of this gender switch on the value of therapy is negligible, studies suggest. A good therapist is a good therapist, male or female, and a mediocre one is a mediocre one. Shared experience may even be a impediment, in some cases: therapists often caution students against assuming that they have special insight into person's problems just because they have something in common.
Still, perception is all important when it comes to seeking help for the very first time. In a recent study among 266 college men, Ronald F. Levant, a psychologist at the University of Akron, found that a man's willingness to seek therapy was directly related to how strongly he agreed with traditionally male assumptions, like ''I can usually handle whatever comes my way.'' Such a man on the fence about seeking treatment could be discouraged by the prospect of talking to a woman.
''Many men like this believe that only another man can help them, and it doesn't matter whether that's true or not,'' Dr. Levant said. ''What's important is what the client believes.''
Both male therapists and men who have been in treatment agree that there are certain topics that -- at least initially, all things being equal -- are best discussed within gender. Sex is one, they say. And some men are far less ashamed about affairs when speaking to another man.
Aggression is another. Many men grow up in a world of hostile body language and real physical violence that is almost entirely invisible to women. A bar fight that sounds traumatic to a female therapist may be no more than a good night out for a man. Likewise, a stare-down in the sandbox that looks vanishingly trivial from a distance may lie like a poisoned well in the stream of the unconscious.
In some men's groups he used to run, Dr. Levant passed out index cards and had each participant write down the one thing he was most ashamed of, that he was reluctant to admit to himself, much less to anyone else. ''I would get things like, 'I backed down from a fight in junior high school,' '' he said, ''and these were mostly middle-aged, married guys.''
In just the past few years, psychologists have identified a number of issues that are, in effect, male versions of the gender-identity issues that so many mothers face in the work force: the self-doubt of being a stay-at-home father, the tension between being a provider and being a father, even male post-partum depression.
''In the same way that there is something very personal about being a mother, something very important to female identity, the experience of fathering is also very powerful,'' said Aaron Rochlen, a psychologist at the University of Texas, Austin. ''And some men, I think, prefer to talk about that -- the joy of being a father, the stress, how it's impacting them -- with a therapist who's had the same experience,'' from the same point of view.
If they can find one, that is. ''I remember when I started training, I looked around and realized that for the first time in my life, I was an endangered minority,'' said Ryan McKelley, a psychologist at the University of Wisconsin, La Crosse. ''Now I tell my male students, if you're interested in clinical care, you can write your own ticket. You'll be hired immediately.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the American Counseling Association's annual conference in March, women predominated, as they do in the profession. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART HILL) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MEN (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); PSYCHIATRY (73%); COUPLE COUNSELING (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNSELING ASSOCIATION (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



714 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Haute Couture Pied-a-Terre

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
DURING a telephone interview from Paris, the fashion designer Alber Elbaz seemed to find it a little funny that he was being asked about real estate.
But then, as if thinking out loud, Mr. Elbaz, artistic director of Lanvin, suddenly made a connection between housing and couture.
''Actually,'' he said, ''we create fashion and we create homes for you. When you are out in this dress, this dress just for you, it's your home.'' 
Mr. Elbaz, a darling of the fashion press who has been widely praised for his colorful, minimalist cocktail dresses, is buying his first apartment in New York; on May 4 he signed a contract for a one-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath condominium at the Apthorp on the Upper West Side. The 2,376-square-foot unit was listed for $6.2 million, but Mr. Elbaz declined to say what he was paying for it.
He came to Manhattan in 1986 from Israel and worked with a series of designers until joining Lanvin in 2001. He had moved to Paris in 1996, but he always kept an apartment in Manhattan, as a renter.
When he was in New York recently, Mr. Elbaz, 49, joined a friend who asked if he would come see her favorite building in the city. They went to the Apthorp, a Renaissance Revival landmark with an ornate limestone facade, a large interior courtyard, elaborate wrought-iron gates and mosaic floors. It was built in 1908, spans the entire block from Broadway to West End Avenue, between 78th and 79th Streets, and was a rental building known for housing celebrities like Nora Ephron and Al Pacino until developers began its troubled conversion four years ago.
Mr. Elbaz contacted a representative from the Apthorp sales team, the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group, who showed him an apartment that he liked. He had seen other places, having decided he wanted to own a pied-a-terre in the city, but there was something ''emotional'' for him about the Apthorp, he said. As in fashion, beauty in architecture is ''an instinct, it's a feeling,'' Mr. Elbaz said. ''It's not a formula. I just went there and there was something about the apartment, the ceilings, the moldings. The whole thing, it was almost majestic.''
Mr. Elbaz had heard about some of the Apthorp's problems, a maze of feuds and disputes involving owners, tenants and the developers, as well as developers and the state, which finally approved the condo conversion last year. The recession didn't help, either, as the building struggled to sell, although prices have begun to rise recently. Mr. Elbaz said he had been assured by his lawyer that the investment was sound.
A 7-Year Roller-Coaster Ride
For Park Avenue House
IN the midst of a flurry of activity at the very high end of the market over the last few weeks comes a contract signing, finally, on 870 Park Avenue, a nearly 12,000-square-foot town house that Benny Shabtai, an Israeli businessman who spent decades leading the watchmaker Raymond Weil's distribution team in the United States, put on the market seven years ago.
The contract signing came after the listing changed hands among three of the city's top-selling brokers, undergoing a series of price changes that took the original $23 million asking price in 2004 to a high of $33 million in 2008, to the last asking price of $24.5 million. Streeteasy.com showed that the contract had been signed on May 13.
The buyer will be getting a four-story mansion -- the facade was designed by Robert A. M. Stern -- with six bedrooms, six baths, a four-passenger elevator and a 1,150-square-foot office with a separate Park Avenue entrance.
A glimpse of the roller-coaster ride for this house, near 71st Street, shows that it was listed with Brown Harris Stevens for $33 million in 2008, then reduced to $26.75 million. After that it was listed for $19.95 million with the Corcoran Group, which later took the price down to $17.5 million. Finally, last June, Dolly Lenz of Prudential Douglas Elliman took over and listed the place for $24.5 million. As The Real Deal asked in a headline at the time -- referring to Paula Del Nunzio of Brown Harris Stevens, Carrie Chiang of Corcoran and Ms. Lenz, ''If Carrie and Paula Can't Sell It ... Can Dolly?''
Apparently yes, although Ms. Lenz declined to comment, citing a confidentiality agreement.
Records show Mr. Shabtai paid $8 million for the town house in 2000. In December, while it was listed with Ms. Lenz, Mr. Shabtai sold the property to his wife, Lori, for $10.09 million, the records show, as part of a divorce settlement. Ms. Shabtai, an executive vice president of the Winick Realty Group, did not respond to a request for comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The ornate ceilings and moldings at the Apthorp, described as ''almost majestic.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA McALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 870 Park Avenue (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (92%); FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); HAUTE COUTURE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); SALES FORCE (67%); APPROVALS (50%); LAWYERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



715 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Oil Truck Explosion Kills at Least 15 in Pakistan

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- At least 15 people were killed when a damaged oil tanker carrying fuel for NATO forces in Afghanistan exploded Saturday in the northwestern tribal region, government officials said. 
The tanker was damaged when a bomb went off near a boys' college in Landi Kotal in the tribal region of Khyber Agency. Abdul Nabi, a local government official, said that the people died when they gathered around the truck to siphon fuel and it exploded.
Two survivors were being treated for burns at the Landi Kotal Hospital.
Fuel prices in Pakistan, which are controlled by the government, have increased sharply in recent months, setting off protests and demonstrations across the country.
In a separate attack, 16 oil tankers were damaged Friday night in the nearby town of Torkham, at the Pakistan-Afghanistan border, when a remote-controlled bomb exploded, Mr. Nabi said. No one was hurt. The tankers were idling at a parking lot, waiting for their turn to enter Afghanistan.
Also on Friday, a bomb aimed at a two-car convoy carrying American consular officials exploded in Peshawar. A Pakistani motorcyclist was killed, but no Americans died or were seriously wounded. Officials have been bracing for attacks on Americans or United States assets since Navy Seals killed Osama bin Laden at his hideout in Pakistan.
On Friday, American officials said files belonging to Bin Laden and captured in the Seal raid had discussed the idea of hijacking oil tankers and blowing them up at sea in the hopes of sending oil prices skyrocketing and rattling the world's economy.
The bombings of the trucks follow a pattern in Pakistan, where Taliban insurgents and criminals attack vehicles carrying supplies for American and NATO troops. The supplies typically arrive in Pakistan's southern port city of Karachi and travel overland to neighboring Afghanistan.
The Abdullah Azzam Brigade, a militant group affiliated with the Pakistani Taliban, claimed responsibility for both the Friday and Saturday attacks.
On Saturday, the opposition politician Imran Khan was also hoping to disrupt the shipment of supplies to NATO troops by organizing a sit-in in Karachi. Mr. Khan, a former cricket player turned politician, said he was staging the sit-in to protest continuing drone attacks by the United States. He said he hoped to hold up the trucks until Sunday afternoon.
Mr. Khan has emerged as one of the most vocal opponents of the of the drone strikes, which he calls violations of the country's sovereignty. The United States has used the strikes to kill militants, including those who use Pakistan as a base to attack NATO troops in Afghanistan. The drone campaign has become increasingly unpopular among Pakistan's politicians.
An earlier sit-in organized by Mr. Khan's political party Tehreek-e-Insaaf , or Justice Party, in Peshawar in April, drew only a few thousand people, contrary to the expectations of the organizers.
Jamal Siddqui, a spokesperson for the party in Karachi, said that by Saturday evening at least 10,000 people had gathered for the protest. Mr. Siddqui said the local authorities had suspended the movement of NATO trucks from the city as a result.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The wreckage of a NATO oil tanker that exploded Saturday in a tribal region in Pakistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QAZI RAUF/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BULK SHIPPING (90%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (79%); TALIBAN (78%); NAVIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); HIJACKING (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); BURN INJURIES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); AL-QAEDA (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CRICKET (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



716 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Former Restaurant Executive Enters 2012 Republican Race

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
Herman Cain, who made his fortune pitching soda, burgers and pizza before turning to politics, declared himself a candidate on Saturday for something that few others seem to want these days: the Republican nomination for president in 2012.
At a noontime rally at a park in Atlanta, his hometown, Mr. Cain, 65, whose conservative fiscal credentials have made him a favorite among some Tea Party backers, promised ''a real vision'' to confront the nation's growing economic and foreign policy problems.
And he vowed to prove wrong the ''doubting Thomases'' who regard him as a long shot. ''I'm not running for second!'' he shouted to cheers from several thousand supporters, as he laid out ''the Cain doctrine'' for promoting economic growth and protecting national security. 
In a stylish video that accompanied his announcement, Mr. Cain offered few specific proposals but instead relied on sweeping, Reaganesque themes and allusions to God's role in America as he promised what he called ''a new American dream.''
''We can turn this country around,'' he said. ''We will make this country great again.''
Mr. Cain, who has never held public office, hopes to leap headlong into a Republican race that is as notable for who is not running as who is.
Big names like Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor; Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi; and Donald J. Trump, the businessman and reality TV star, recently announced that they would not seek the Republican nomination to run in the general election next year against President Obama.
Sarah Palin, a former governor of Alaska, has yet to declare her intentions. But the rest of the field is slowly coming together. Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota, is scheduled to declare his candidacy on Monday in Iowa. Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, has opened an exploratory campaign and is aggressively raising money. Jon M. Huntsman, a former Utah governor and United States ambassador to China, is considering entering the race and Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana has said he will announce his plans soon.
While other possible contenders have skipped many of the early events this year, Mr. Cain has been aggressively crisscrossing the country and trying to build name recognition among a public more familiar with the company he once ran, Godfather's Pizza, than with the candidate himself.
A graceful public speaker with a deep baritone voice, Mr. Cain has spoken at dozens of Tea Party rallies. In March, he attended a forum in Iowa that marked his informal kickoff to win the state's delegates, and he was one of just five second-tier hopefuls who took part in a Republican presidential debate in South Carolina this month.
Mr. Cain's early supporters are hoping that his plainspoken speaking style, his up-from-the-bootstraps life story, and his success in business will appeal to conservative voters.
The son of a chauffeur and a domestic worker in Georgia, he graduated from Morehouse College, a historic black college, with a degree in mathematics, and he earned a master's degree at Purdue before joining the Navy. He then began his rise in the corporate world, first at Coca-Cola and then at the Pillsbury Company, where he was an executive overseeing Burger King and chief executive at Godfather's Pizza.
His first venture into national politics was almost accidental. At a nationally televised town hall meeting in 1994, he challenged President Bill Clinton's health care plans and their potential effect on businesses. When Mr. Clinton assured him that the proposal would not harm businesses, Mr. Cain answered that ''in the competitive marketplace, it simply doesn't work that way.''
He used his newfound prominence among conservative groups to become more outspoken in politics, hosting a radio show in Atlanta, writing books on political themes and losing a 1994 Republican primary for the United States Senate in Georgia.
Nearly two decades after his televised run-in with Mr. Clinton, Mr. Cain will probably use his opposition to President Obama's health care plan as one focal point of his campaign in railing against what he called ''an out-of-control federal government that spends recklessly, taxes too much and oversteps its constitutional limits far too often.''
At Saturday's rally, he also pledged to cut corporate tax rates and make permanent the tax breaks enacted under President George W. Bush. He also said he would push for new energy policies to make the United States less dependent on foreign oil, protect Israel's interest in the Middle East and pursue tougher immigration policies to secure American borders.
He drew perhaps his loudest cheers when he praised Arizona's controversial immigration law, which gives state officials more power to move against suspected illegal immigrants, and condemned the Obama administration's decision to sue the state over the law.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Herman Cain, who declared his candidacy in Atlanta, has spoken at Tea Party rallies and plans to run as a fiscal conservative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); REALITY TELEVISION (50%)

COMPANY: GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BRAD HENRY (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



717 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Breakfast of Champions? Not in These Schools

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
When Mayor Rahm Emanuel's new Chicago Board of Education swings into action, it should not mark the occasion with a private dinner.
The members should have breakfast together in any of several thousand elementary school classrooms. There, they will get a glimpse of the mess they have inherited. Bring antacids and a nutritionist.
A Breakfast in the Classroom program approved by their predecessors is completing its mandatory rollout. All that can be said with certitude is that it has shortened instructional time in a system with the shortest school day and year of the nation's 50 largest districts. 
''It's a mess,'' said the principal of a North Side elementary school who declined to be identified and is not happy with a one-size-fits-all program. It's stealing teaching time and generating too much garbage, and the nutritional impact is unclear, he said.
A defensive presentation on the Chicago Public Schools Web site talks about serving ''the whole child both emotionally and academically.'' It sounds quite holistic.
The drivers are hunger and revenue. C.P.S. has no Chicago-specific data on how many students don't eat breakfast at home, what they eat if they do and whether they take part in the new program. But, according to Kate Maehr, head of the Greater Chicago Food Depository, 37 percent of clients at 650 soup kitchens, pantries and shelters in Cook County are children.
C.P.S. was running a pre-class breakfast program in school cafeterias but says attendance was modest. The reasons cited include a stigma attached to taking part -- the notion that ''only low-income students eat school breakfast,'' according to its Web site -- as well as kids' just preferring to play outside or not getting to school early enough.
Then there are economics. Given the differential between federal reimbursements and the cost of the meals, the breakfast plan ''has the potential to create $8.9 million of new revenue,'' according to an internal document. C.P.S. gets as much as $1.76 per student for a meal costing about a buck.
Initial criticisms have come mostly from parents worried about allergies, with scant attention paid to the loss of instructional time. The district claims it takes away only 10 minutes, which itself means losing a full week from the woefully short year. That's poppycock, especially for younger students struggling with milk cartons and plastic packaging.
But what about what the food they're actually getting?
I brought four days' worth of hot and cold breakfasts, in their white and brown paper bags, to Linda Somers, the pediatric outpatient nutritionist at Children's Memorial Hospital. She's also the parent of a second grader at A. N. Pritzker Elementary School -- ''He thinks the food there is horrible,'' she said -- and counsels many low-income C.P.S. students with obesity.
Her basic conclusion: ''They're serving crap.''
Her lengthy analysis was decidedly more nuanced, even if the absence of labels on much of the food complicated the task. In one case, she couldn't figure out what the hot meal actually was; perhaps an omelet, she said.
One classic -- a pancake wrapped around a sausage on a stick, to be dipped into syrup -- was very likely filled with saturated fat and calories, she said. A cold alternative was Rice Krispies, Cheerios and Kellogg's Frosted Mini-Wheats -- all of which she found benign -- and skim milk.
For the four days, there was not a piece of fresh fruit, whole grains were in insufficient supply, and the orange juice was 100 percent juice but included apple and pear juice (''a money saver''), Ms. Somers said.
Graham crackers were labeled as having no trans fats, but ingredients included partially hydrogenated oils, which Ms. Somers frowns on. A fruit cup had no nutritional information, so she could only say, ''It looks terrible.''
Her ultimate assessment is that the breakfast offerings may exacerbate the obesity problem. ''Poverty and hunger are real issues, yes,'' she said, ''but this is not the way to fix it.''
To her, everything is wrongheaded: Too many concentrated calories. Not sitting at a communal table. Being rushed to finish in 10 minutes. Not enough fresh fruit. The possibility that children have multiple breakfasts, then lunch, within two or three hours, given that lunch can come as early as 10:30 a.m. at some schools.
My first grader's school starts the program Monday. Next week's fare includes ''egg & potato breakfast bowl'' and ''beef sausage n biscuit breakfast sandwich.''
I just hope his education is nowhere as empty as the calories we'll jam down his young throat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); NUTRITION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); POOR POPULATION (71%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (69%); WEB SITES (67%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



718 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 5424 words

HEADLINE: THE HOT-MONEY COWBOYS OF BAGHDAD

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
''My friend, Iraq is a rich, virgin country!'' one of its richest men, Namir al-Akabi, told me with a startling enthusiasm when I met him earlier this year at his office in Baghdad. Akabi is the chairman of the Almco Group of Companies, a conglomerate he built from nothing in the wake of the American invasion in 2003. What makes Iraq's economic potential so great, he explained, despite everything, is not just its abundant natural resources -- it is the shattered state of Iraq itself: the damage done by the American war, but also the long, steady decay under Saddam Hussein, from the war with Iran that began in 1980 through the invasion of Kuwait a decade later and the crushing international sanctions that followed the first gulf war. The country has been decimated, and therein lies its potential. 
Like many of Iraq's wealthiest men, Akabi grew up in exile: his family left in 1970, when he was just 7, in the early days of Baath Party rule. He lived first in Jordan, then London, then Moscow. He was back in Jordan building housing when the United States invaded his homeland and made him a very, very rich man. ''How many five-star restaurants are there in Baghdad?'' he asked as we drove in a convoy of Chevy Suburbans through the bleak streets and highways. ''None! I've tasted them all.'' Houses, hospitals, roads, bridges, electricity, communication networks, hotels, supermarkets and, not least, pipelines and refineries for the coming boom in oil and natural-gas production. ''Iraq needs everything!'' he said. ''Anything you can think of. A car rental! Everything you take for granted in the West.''
He was not exaggerating. Not long after that conversation, I met Ayad Yahya, the general director of Al-Bilad Islamic Bank. While we talked in his office, a young, English-speaking assistant came in and proudly showed off the bank's first debit card. They were planning on rolling out the card to customers the following week, as soon as they worked out the kinks in the computer system Yahya recently bought from Oracle. The A.T.M. itself was still in its shipping box in the bank's lobby.
Yahya, an aging economist who once worked for Iraq's state bank, recalled visits to Amman and Beirut under Hussein's rule. ''We brought back bananas and Pepsi for our children,'' he told me. ''We said to them, 'This is a banana.' '' In 2007, while the sectarian fighting in Iraq was still in full bloom, Yahya acquired the means to make Pepsi himself. He led a group of investors that took over the formerly state-run Baghdad Soft Drinks Company, a factory on the city's southern outskirts that was once partly owned by Hussein's erratic and fearsome son, Uday. It was the officially licensed Pepsi franchise in Iraq from 1984 until it shut down production after the invasion of Kuwait in 1990. Now it's humming again. With new management, a renewed Pepsi license and an extensive refurbishment, including new bottling lines, generators and water purifiers (the source being the Tigris River, half a mile away), it supplies 80 percent of the soda in Baghdad and nearly half in all of Iraq. This makes it one of the country's largest manufacturers, which is a sign of its managerial success and also the sad state of manufacturing in Iraq.
''The economy is growing, but the path is long,'' Yahya said later over a lunch at the soda plant that included Iraq's national dish, a delicious roasted carp, called masquf, and Diet Pepsi. ''This is just the very beginning.'' As we ate, Al Jazeera murmured on a flat-screen, broadcasting the protests in Egypt that toppled Hosni Mubarak. Yahya watched the scenes, riveted. ''Arab investors used to think Egypt was the most stable,'' he said. ''Now we are.''
The war in Iraq is widely seen as a colossal blunder of American hubris that killed tens of thousands and displaced many more, leaving a shattered, sectarian wreck of a country. Even now, as President Obama withdraws the last of nearly 50,000 American troops by the end of the year, the insurgency simmers and the state is neither stable nor fully democratic. The government is rife with corruption and paralyzed by an ossified bureaucracy. And yet also, undeniably, Iraq has turned a corner. After years of war, looting, sectarian bloodshed and political infighting, Iraq's economy is beginning to take off, fueled by a resurgence in oil exploitation -- and soon natural gas -- and an influx of foreign capital that has swelled despite the protracted political impasse that followed Iraq's parliamentary elections in March 2010.
The International Monetary Fund recently estimated that Iraq's gross domestic product grew 2.6 percent last year -- nearly as much as the struggling American economy did -- and it projected astonishing increases exceeding 11 percent this year and next. Some say Iraq's economy -- estimated at roughly $80 billion today -- could expand six or seven times in the next decade as it increases oil production to a level rivaling Saudi Arabia's.
''That's conservative,'' James Hogan, the country director for the international banking giant HSBC, told me as we sat in his sleek, glass-walled office in Baghdad. HSBC acquired control of the Dar Es Salaam Investment Bank in 2005 and has since built it into one of Iraq's largest private financial institutions. It had assets worth $91 million when HSBC took control; according to Hogan, it has $407 million in assets now. By market capitalization, it is the largest company traded on the Iraqi Stock Exchange, an institution that did not exist in 2003 and began electronic trades only two years ago. ''What success will look like in 5, 10, 20 years, that's what we're all here for,'' Hogan said.
''People used to say: 'America is coming for our oil! America is after our oil!' '' Abbas Fadhil Shamara told me. ''But at the end of the day, you did not see many companies.'' Today Iraqis complain not that Americans are coming to steal their oil but that our companies -- and foreign corporations, too -- are too slow to arrive.
It is not hard to understand why. On the lovely, cool day in January that I met Shamara in his home in Mansour, which counts as a tony neighborhood in Iraq's dusty, garbage-strewn, barbed-wired and blast-walled capital, a roadside bomb exploded not far away, killing an Iraqi brigadier general on his way to work. Another bomb near a gas station across town wounded eight people. Men using silencers strafed the car of a police colonel, killing him. In Tikrit, the governor of the province north of Baghdad narrowly escaped an assassination attempt that injured five of his bodyguards. Two or perhaps three suicide car bombs -- facts in Iraq are often hard to pin down -- exploded on the outskirts of Karbala, the holy city where millions of Shiites marched in a religious ritual that was once banned and is now annually attacked by a relentless, if diminished, insurgency.
It would be wrong to say that Shamara was callous about the carnage still being wrought in his country. The attacks that day killed at least 30 people, culminating a bloody week that left some 200 Iraqis dead. But that is not the Iraq Shamara sees. He argued that the media and the international community, and especially equivocating investors, have clung to and perpetuated a misconception of Iraq as a politically unstable, deeply corrupt hell on earth. All of which is true, but he had a point.
Riding through Baghdad's gridlocked traffic, I passed along Mansour's main shopping street. It was thronged with people, Iraqis unaware of or undaunted by the day's violence. In the first months after the American invasion in 2003 -- that fleeting period of hope before darkness fell -- Baghdad spilled over with cheap imports of everything imaginable: cigarettes, sodas and especially fans and air-conditioners, stacked in piles on sidewalks and in markets. It was typical of a postwar economy: chaotic and unregulated. Even in the worst years of ''the events,'' as Iraqis call the war, people shopped for necessities, though always well before dark. Today they do so in newly opened stores. Of all the so-called benchmarks that the United States Congress imposed to measure the progress of war, no one thought to include a count of the number of plate-glass windows in Baghdad's storefronts. Installing one is a gesture of defiance, or at least resilience, in a place where bombs still routinely shatter glass. They began appearing more and more in the last couple of years, as good a measure of public confidence in improved security -- and a rising retail economy -- as any other.
When I noted to Shamara that I still had to drive through two checkpoints on the street leading to his house, he responded dismissively, as if the militarized cityscape was now a mere annoyance. ''That's because Chalabi lives here,'' he said, referring to Ahmad Chalabi, the politician widely reviled for misleading the United States into war -- and who is also a very rich man.
Shamara and his brother, Ali, are scions of a mercantile family that produced textiles in the 1960s and '70s and later, as the regime withered under international sanctions following the disastrous invasion of Kuwait in 1990, supplied Hussein's ministries with chemicals, pesticides, medical equipment and harvesters. (Shamara is a man of contradiction. He was imprisoned by Hussein's secret service in the 1970s but later did business with his sons.)
Today in the new Iraq, the Shamara Holding Company builds power stations and steel mills. It is expanding into pipelines, refineries and other services for the various multinational corporations that in 2009 won the first contracts to exploit Iraq's oil and natural gas, in what was one of the single biggest energy auctions in history.
''I always say we have a jewel in our hand,'' he said, ''but we don't know how to market it.''
Two weeks before I met Shamara, he was in Japan doing just that, as a consultant for the Japanese Embassy in Baghdad. When I telephoned him a week later, he explained in a hush that he was in Istanbul attending a conference on Iraq's plans to vastly expand its power stations by offering contracts and operating profits to private investors like Shamara Holding. Those contracts, given the sorry state of the country's electricity, could eventually be worth billions of dollars.
From 2006 until January of this year, the American effort to rebuild Iraq's economy was largely run not by the embassy but by the Pentagon. During the worst years of sectarian violence, the Pentagon created the Task Force for Business and Stability Operations, led by an intense, taciturn engineer and deputy under secretary of defense, Paul A. Brinkley. It became known as the Brinkley Group, and as with much of the Pentagon's conduct in the war, its work proved controversial. While it lured investors from all over the world, housing them in a motel-like villa in the Green Zone, its ultimate value is disputed even now. Brinkley himself was investigated for mismanagement and personal misconduct but was never charged with anything. (I have met him twice in Baghdad since 2009, but he did not respond to requests to be interviewed for this article.)
The task force has now shifted its efforts to Afghanistan, a country with far less economic potential than Iraq. Its last project in Iraq was to organize a trip to Baghdad in January for a nonprofit group called the Business Executives for National Security and a handful of prospective investors, including Georgette Mosbacher of the cosmetic maker Borghese; Anthony Scaramucci of SkyBridge Capital; and Rick Goings, the chairman of Tupperware. Their goal was not to seek out investment opportunities so much as to promote entrepreneurialism among the Iraqis themselves. At a meeting with students at Baghdad University, it became clear that much was lost in translation. Mosbacher, also an author and an ardent Republican fund-raiser, shared her up-by-the-bootstraps biography -- small-town girl from Indiana achieves the American dream -- and offered ''practical advice'' for anyone in the auditorium who wanted to begin a business. Some of the biggest companies in America, she said, ''were started in garages.'' ''Look around,'' she told the students, most of them young women. ''Ask what's not being done. Is it difficult to get shirts cleaned?'' (Dry cleaning in Baghdad was, in fact, crippled by international sanctions that banned imports of chemicals. A colleague once told me his suit was cleaned with gasoline.)
The students -- some in head scarves, some not -- applauded politely, but then a third-year student in physics, Fatin Khalid, stood up and asked when these companies would be coming to Iraq to open businesses that they might work for. Rick Goings offered what he said was ''the bitter truth.'' ''I think it is unlikely that most global corporations -- European and American -- are going to set up significant companies here because of security,'' he told the students. Earlier he said the same thing to the dean. ''They have China, India, Indonesia, where there is not a likelihood of getting killed.''
I met Mosbacher again two days later as the delegation prepared to leave. It was her first visit to Iraq, and her main impression was that it was less dangerous than she expected. When I asked her about investing in Iraq, though, she demurred. ''Look,'' she told me, ''I'm going to do business anywhere where I can get quality products.'' Iraq's problem, she said, was that there was ''no real concept of a market economy.'' She had doubts about the infrastructure needed to warehouse and ship products, about access to capital and, above all, about corruption. ''There's a sense that everyone has their hand out,'' she said. ''That's a real problem for U.S. investors.''
In the spring of 2008, as the Bush administration was eagerly defending the troop surge, the Brinkley Group appeared to have landed its most prominent American investment. Marriott International was negotiating to operate a business-class hotel in the Green Zone. Baghdad, a city with an estimated eight million people, had a dearth of hotels even before the American invasion. Even the most famous hotels -- the Rashid, with its floor-tile mosaic mocking George H. W. Bush; the Ishtar Sheraton; and the Palestine, where most foreign journalists stayed -- were dingy, fraying relics. After the invasion, they also became frequent targets of mortars, rockets and car bombs. Marriott's interest was a desperately wanted sign of economic revitalization, but like many large projects in Baghdad, it was hyped with fanfare that proved to be unrealistic. In late 2008, a car bomb badly damaged the Marriott in Pakistan's capital, Islamabad, underscoring the risks inherent in establishing an American brand in places roiled by anti-American extremism. The deal in Baghdad quietly failed to materialize.
The hotel has, however.
''It doesn't need a feasibility study,'' Hayder al-Judi, an engineer by training, told me at a bustling construction site in the center of the Green Zone. Judi returned from exile in New Zealand after the war and is now building an 11-story, 300-room hotel and conference center that will be the first significant addition to the Baghdad skyline since Hussein's overthrow. As did Akabi and the others, he told me that the business opportunities in today's Iraq were self-evident. The oil and gas investments will bring a new wave of businessmen and executives, all of whom need a place to stay in a country with very few hotels of the standard they are used to. ''We need 20 of these as a start,'' he said.
Brinkley's task force worked feverishly to support the project, bringing Judi together with a group of American investors led by Summit Global Group, a company registered in Delaware and led by Robert K. Kelley, a former Congressional aide who at the start of the war shepherded members of Congress around Iraq for the American occupation authority and later for the United States Embassy. Judi and four other Iraqi investors, whom he declined to name, control 75 percent of the $100 million project; the Americans 25 percent. The Overseas Private Investment Corporation in Washington provided a loan of $50 million and, tellingly, $25 million in political-risk insurance. ''It required a leap of faith,'' Judi told me.
In May 2008, he and the others acquired a 50-year lease for the land and broke ground that July, even as negotiations with Marriott to operate the hotel fell through. The hotel was the first foreign investment licensed by Iraq's National Investment Commission, but even with the high-level support from the American and Iraqi governments, the project struggled to navigate Iraq's sluggish bureaucracy. In 2009, behind blast walls that shielded the site from view, workers cleared the ground and began driving pilings 80 feet into the sandy soil, a necessity because of the high-water table of the nearby Tigris. Bureaucracy and uncertain financing, however, stalled construction in August 2009, and even now Judi is awaiting still more approvals. ''It was frustrating for all of us at the time,'' Judi said, ''but we were pioneers.'' (Kelley told me in Washington that it was not entirely the Iraqis' fault. He also attributed the yearlong delay to the transition at OPIC from the administrations of President Bush to President Obama.)
The investors ultimately reached a deal with Rotana, the hotel-management company based in the United Arab Emirates that, Kelley said, understood the cultural sensitivities of running a hotel for foreigners in the Arab world. Rotana opened its first hotel in Iraq this year -- in Erbil, the capital of the relatively safe and increasingly prosperous Kurdish autonomous region. Rooms start at $215 a night and reach $1,415 for a presidential suite. The Baghdad Rotana will be no less swank, but it is designed with the realities of a violent city in mind. It has reinforced risers and girders and is far enough from any public road to minimize the threat of car bombs. The roof will have two layers to absorb the impact of mortars or rockets, which still occasionally land in the Green Zone. ''We tried to get away from glass to the extent that we could,'' Judi explained.
A glossy brochure shows rooms with sleek, modern furnishings, a patisserie, a cigar lounge, a Belgian beer cafe and an outdoor swimming pool. Nothing like it exists in Baghdad. The first time I saw the designs in 2010, at a time when construction was halted, it was impossible to imagine the hotel in the scarred, shabby cityscape. When I met Judi there in February, though, the hotel's skeleton rose to the second floor. Bloodied handprints stained the walls -- a ritual of Iraqi construction workers, using the blood of slaughtered lambs to celebrate the completion of each phase of work.
From the second floor, Judi pointed to a vacant lot to the west of the site. ''I think it's going to be a shopping mall,'' he said as we watched the sunset cast a golden hue on the former Baath Party headquarters, once one of the most feared places in Iraq.
''People say, 'When is the right moment?' '' Judi said of investing in Iraq. ''You never know when the right moment is.'' Like most Iraqis I talked to, he declined to discuss money in detail. When I pressed him, though, he said the return on the investors' share in the hotel could be ''north of 35, 40 percent.''
Iraq remains a violent place, but standing there with Judi, a new Iraq no longer seemed simply a pipe dream of a desperate American administration hoping for some silver lining to emerge out of a disastrous war. ''Everyone assumes stability will return, and then the investors will come,'' he said. ''My view is that investment will come into the country and then stability will improve.''
Namir al-Akabi, the very optimistic chairman of Almco, is typical of Iraq's new class of entrepreneurs. They are men -- almost without exception -- with a genetic understanding of Iraqi culture, a business acumen honed in exile and an irrepressible acceptance of risk. Bearish and gregarious, unfazed by all that bedevils the place, he returned to Iraq for the first time in 33 years only days after the American tanks rolled into Baghdad. As he tells the story, his first contract was to supply $500 worth of gasoline to the invaders. He negotiated the terms of his deal over a satellite phone with a bad connection and little grasp of the American military's jargon. ''They kept talking about MoGas,'' he recalled, referring to gasoline, as opposed to AvGas, or aviation fuel. ''I didn't know what it was.'' He learned quickly, then filled a tanker and drove it to Mosul, where he found and filled up five American sport utility vehicles on the side of the road. ''I lost money,'' he said, but the deal opened the door to the vast opportunities afforded by an American war machine that to date has spent more than $61 billion trying to rebuild Iraq.
In 2003, Akabi created Almco -- the Al Iraq al-Moaser Company, ''the modern Iraq Company.'' He soon won dozens of contracts at American bases across the country, building tent camps for troops and providing fuel, generators and security. He claims to have built three-quarters of the buildings at the sprawling military airfield in Taji, just north of Baghdad. In 2005, he underbid K.B.R. for the contract to cater the American detention center at Camp Bucca near Basra, which then held 22,000 Iraqis swooped up in American raids. (It has since closed, and the regional government in Basra has announced plans to turn Bucca into a business park or a tourist resort.)
''This was the single largest catering company in the world,'' he boasted when I met him in one of Almco's offices in the still heavily fortified Green Zone. The villa that housed the offices looked like a construction site, surrounded by generators and company trucks emblazoned with Almco's motto: ''We make the impossible happen.'' Akabi now employs more than 7,000 people across the country and earns, he said, $600 million in revenue a year.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, he adores the Americans. His office walls are covered with dozens of grip-and-grin photographs of American commanders (outnumbering those of Iraqi leaders like Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki) and certificates of appreciation from the American military, including one praising the catering contract at Camp Bucca. A folded American flag rests on a shelf, a memento of an American military base he once serviced but has since closed, as most already have.
''What the U.S. did was a success,'' he said later as we drove to Taji to visit his projects, including a newly finished helicopter hangar which, as his certificate of appreciation noted, is the largest open-span steel structure in all of Iraq. ''They made mistakes along the way. They had a plan for the invasion but not for after the invasion. Now, it is a success.'' He paused. ''In 10 or 20 years, Iraq will be booming, by the way. Under Saddam Hussein, Iraqis didn't have hope. Today we have hope.''
Working with the Americans in postinvasion Iraq had its risks, and it still does. Iraqi contractors working for the so-called occupiers were favorite targets of insurgents. On the drive to Taji, we passed near the spot where one night in 2004 gunmen opened fire on his convoy as it neared the base. He was traveling with 12 men; 4 were killed. He escaped by hiding in reeds beside the Tigris until morning. On the drive back to Baghdad, he showed me the gnarled guardrail on a bridge where a roadside bomb nearly killed him in 2008; a passing truck absorbed the force of the blast. He credits his business success to the fact that he never left Iraq but instead learned to work with the American contracting system, even as potential competitors fled for their lives.
That the American military is due to pull out completely by the end of 2011 has hardly curbed Akabi's enthusiasm. The steady withdrawal of American soldiers that began to pick up speed under President Obama in 2009 has coincided with the first significant influx of international oil companies.
They all need the same services he provided the Americans -- from housing to catering to security. ''Oil and gas people are more pampered,'' he said. ''They live in the desert, but they're used to quality. They're not the military. They don't want to live the hard life.''
As we drove, he received a telephone call from an official with Eni, the Italian energy company, inquiring about an estimate for installing security equipment at the Zubair oil field near Basra. Almco is already building the company's camp there. (''I brought in an Italian chef,'' he said.) The conversation seemed to go in circles over the details of what's known in the bidding process as a request for proposal. When he hung up, after finally promising a bid within 10 days, he complained, ''It's so hard to work with the Italians.''
That, of course, can also be said of the Iraqis. In the cup holder beside his seat in the Suburban, Akabi had rested a black Zastava pistol, made in Serbia and engraved in Arabic. (I asked him about it in the hope that he would move it, since it was pointed at my right knee on a bumpy ride. He did, lifting it in his right hand while cradling a Nokia in his left.) The engraving on the pistol's barrel explained that it was a gift from Maliki, who doled them out as campaign favors during a meeting with businessmen and tribal leaders on the eve of last year's election, which he ultimately won by tenaciously outmaneuvering his chief rivals, including Ayad Allawi, a secular Shiite much closer to the United States. ''Honestly,'' Maliki said at the time, ''I wish I could give a pistol and a rifle to each one who stood beside the government against the gangs to express our appreciation.''
Maliki's electoral munificence underscored the cozy, corrupted relationship between the state and business. The Iraqi state, after all, still controls an estimated 80 to 90 percent of the economy -- from the oil fields to 176 state-owned enterprises, holdovers of Soviet-style central planning. As a result, Maliki's government is the largest patron of economic development and, many say, the biggest obstacle to it.
The country's laws remain largely untested or, in the case of foreign investment, still mostly unwritten. So far, the newly seated Parliament has shown little inclination to take on legislation that would open the economy to market forces.
''We still have politicians who believe investment is like occupation,'' says Mohammed al-Rubaie, the chairman of strategic planning for the Baghdad Provincial Council and one of 11 brothers who own property and run businesses across the city, from a stationery-supplies chain to a mobile-phone franchise in a new headquarters on the eastern bank of the Tigris. One of the stationery supplier's biggest customers is the Baghdad Provincial Council -- the sort of nepotism that would be a conflict of interest in the United States but is commonplace in Iraq.
I met Rubaie in his brother's store shortly after he returned from Paris, where he participated in talks with the French company Alstom to build, improbably, a monorail in Baghdad, at a projected cost of $2 billion for the first 15 miles. ''They hate something from the West,'' he said of those who opposed investment. ''These people -- we want to change them.''
Without exception, Iraq's businessmen told me that their greatest challenge today is not security but the bureaucracy and its attendant corruption. Transparency International ranks Iraq at the very bottom of its list, with only three other countries considered more corrupt: Afghanistan, Myanmar and Somalia. For ease of doing business, the World Bank last year ranked Iraq 166th out of 183 countries.
Akabi complained that he was thwarted by government officials when he tried to create a helicopter taxi service in Basra for foreign oil workers. Ayad Yahya of Bilad Islamic Bank complained that an armored truck he bought had been stuck in customs for six months already at the country's notoriously corrupt port south of Basra. When Hussein al-Shabibi, a charming pastry chef and cake decorator, tried to register the pastry shop he opened in the Jadriya neighborhood of Baghdad in 2008 -- a modern, glass-fronted shop that would not be out of place in suburban America -- he was turned down on the grounds that its name, Vanilla, was not Arabic. As a result, he acknowledged rather openly, he refuses to pay taxes. Bashir al-Obaidi, the youthful manager of Baghdad's only Mercedes-Benz showroom, which opened a couple of years ago, said that the government could not provide the automaker the precise grade of gasoline used in the country because there were 12 different grades.
Even basic economic data are vague and often dubious. Iraq has not conducted a full census of its population since 1987, postponing it repeatedly because of the ethnic and sectarian divisions it would undoubtedly expose. James Hogan of Dar Es Salaam said that the level of imports and exports (and thus even G.D.P.) -- which in a normal country would be precisely monitored and recorded at the borders -- are largely guesses because of lax, antiquated and probably dishonest reporting. He noted that many businesses and even government agencies still prefer payments in cash, despite enormous efforts by the American government to introduce computerized accounting systems.
''It's not a shadow economy,'' Faisal al-Qaragholi, another former exile turned businessman, told me. ''It's a chaos economy.'' I first met Qaragholi in Washington in October 2009, when hundreds of Iraqis and American officials gathered at the Hyatt Regency near Capitol Hill for what was billed as the first Iraqi-American investment conference. Several officials at the time, including Maliki and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, declared Iraq ''open for business.'' Still-troubled provinces like Anbar, once the heart of the Sunni insurgency, advertised ''hidden opportunities.'' The conference produced few concrete deals in the end, however, according to Qaragholi and other officials and businessmen.
One reason may be the American government itself, with its complicating laws like the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which forbids the kind of bribe-paying that greases contracts with government ministries. The State Department's investment climate statement last year noted improved security and rising foreign investment but offered words of caution stark enough to scare off most investors. ''Potential investors should prepare themselves for significant security costs; cumbersome and confusing procedures for business visas or new business registration; long payment delays on some Iraqi government contracts; and sometimes unreliable, nontransparent dispute resolution mechanisms. Allegations of corruption are still endemic, and the legacy of central planning and inefficient state-owned enterprises continue to inhibit economic development.''
Qaragholi, though, is as sanguine as he was the first time I met him in Washington. The country, he told me then and repeated now, ''will be a gold mine'' for the next 50 years as the oil flows and modern, transparent business practices, led by foreign investors, take root. ''We will be second to none in the Middle East,'' he went on, saying Iraq has more going for it culturally than the Persian Gulf states did when they began their economic expansions a few decades ago. ''We have the people, we have the culture and we have the resources to back it up.''
Qaragholi was vague about exactly what business he was in except to say it involved construction and finance. He offers himself as an adviser to any foreigner interested but unsure how to enter the Iraqi market. ''You have to have an Iraqi partner, because he knows how to work this,'' he explained. ''He can speak to people in the ministries.'' I did not get the impression that Qaragholi, an impeccable English speaker, meant simply the ability to speak Arabic but more his grasp of the Iraqi mentality.
The Americans, he complained, risked falling behind -- not just behind Iraq's natural trading partners, neighbors like the Turks and Iranians, but also behind the Italians, the French and the South Koreans, all of whom announced more investments in Iraq in 2010 than American companies did. Those deals amounted to nearly a 50 percent increase from the year before. ''Excuse my French,'' Qaragholi said of the wary Americans who were reluctant to invest in the country they helped destroy, ''but they have to have some kind of balls.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Namir al-Akabi, the C.E.O. of Almco, packs a pistol and a cellphone. (MM28-MM29)
KING OF POP: Ayad Yahya, a wealthy banker and investor, at his soda factory in south Baghdad. (MM30)
 PLAYERS: Mohammed al-Rubaie, center, socializes at the Alwiya club in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LYNSEY ADDARIO/VI I NETWORK, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); DESERT STORM (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); LOBBYING (70%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (69%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (68%); SOFT DRINK MFG (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); ISLAMIC BANKING (62%); RELIGION (62%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (54%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); AMMAN, JORDAN (55%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (92%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



719 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2276 words

HEADLINE: Guard Dog To the Stars (Legally Speaking)

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
IT started with a fortune cookie. Two of them, actually.
Martin D. Singer still carries in his wallet the slip he plucked from the first in 1980, on the day he decided to join John H. Lavely Jr. to start their law firm, Lavely & Singer. It reads: ''Your intuitions in business decisions are good.''
On the firm's first anniversary, Mr. Singer recalls, he and Mr. Lavely went out for Chinese again. And he got the same fortune.
Somebody knew the stars were in the market for a pit bull. 
Since then, Mr. Singer and his firm of 15 lawyers have emerged as Hollywood's foremost protectors of the unlikeliest of underdogs: celebrities who seem to have it all.
A growing tabloid culture, coupled with the brutal economics of a contracting entertainment industry, has left a surprising number of the glamour set feeling picked on -- and looking for someone to even the score. That is often Mr. Singer, a stocky, bespectacled 59-year-old litigator. More than 30 years ago, he began taking odd jobs that were beneath established firms, then built what might have been a niche practice -- shielding stars and their adjuncts from annoyance -- into a Hollywood mainstay.
''He's ferocious and fearless, he really is,'' says Sylvester Stallone, one of the first in an expanding list of entertainers, executives and even political figures who have turned to Mr. Singer for help with contracts gone wrong, business relationships gone bad or most any other sort of problem.
''I think I was having trouble with a dinosaur, that's how far back we go,'' jokes Mr. Stallone when asked how he initially connected with Mr. Singer. ''There was a dinosaur making some sexual innuendos.''
Lately, Mr. Singer has taken up the cudgels for Charlie Sheen with a lawsuit in which Warner Brothers Television and the producer Chuck Lorre are said to have illegally thrown Mr. Sheen off the hit television show ''Two and a Half Men.''
''I really believe Charlie Sheen is a victim,'' says Mr. Singer, voicing what seems to a core conviction: that even the rich and famous can be abused. And when that happens, they are apt to call in a heavy.
When Jeremy Piven dropped out of a Broadway production of ''Speed-the-Plow'' in 2008, Mr. Singer was there -- to argue that Mr. Piven had been forced out by mercury poisoning from eating too much fish.
(In a union arbitration with producers, Mr. Piven prevailed.)
Mr. Singer helped save Arnold Schwarzenegger, while he was California's governor, from two lawsuits by women who contended that they were smeared by political aides -- one suit was settled, one dismissed -- and this week has been keeping tabs on new reports that Mr. Schwarzenegger fathered a child outside his marriage.
In 2006, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, hired Mr. Singer to deal with a news report that criticized a land transaction. (Mr. Singer says he doesn't recall what he did for his reported fee of $25,000, and a spokesman for the senator did not respond to queries.)
Less grandly, Mr. Singer in March filed suit for Quentin Tarantino against a neighbor and a fellow writer, Alan Ball, contending that Mr. Ball's screeching macaws were keeping Mr. Tarantino from getting his work done.
''That's been resolved,'' Mr. Singer says. Mr. Tarantino has since finished his latest screenplay.
''Some people said it's the best script he's ever written, because he had the peace and quiet,'' Mr. Singer says.
IT is a Monday afternoon in early May. Just outside the door of Mr. Singer's office, on the 24th floor of a Century City tower, he can be heard growling orders for corrective action against yet another journalist who, in his view, has done a client wrong.
''Let's demand a retraction,'' comes the low, throaty command.
Mr. Singer is remarkable for transformations that turn what Mr. Stallone describes as a warm and fuzzy friend -- his full face and jocular smile recall the comic singer Allan Sherman -- into a foam-flecked attack dog.
''If you rattle his cage, you're in for a fight,'' says Mr. Stallone, who has had Mr. Singer go to bat for him in court.
Nothing gets Mr. Singer going like a whiff of defamation. Since the previous Friday, he explains, five situations have cropped up, two of them involving new clients who are asking Mr. Singer to do what Hollywood thinks that he does best: kill, or at least maim, unflattering stories that have yet to surface.
It is not a pretty business. ''We're one of the few firms that sue; we don't just send a letter,'' Mr. Singer says. He is speaking with one foot propped on a chair, to ease the swelling in a calf muscle that was torn 10 days before when his driver in Ireland challenged him to tackle the sport of hurling. (''I'm very competitive,'' Mr. Singer explains.)
Neither is defamation very lucrative. Mr. Singer usually jumps in before the nastiness, true or otherwise, is published or posted. Win or lose, that typically means just a few hours of work. The billings, at $750 per hour, add up to less than 20 percent of his total, by his count.
Despite his best efforts, though, Mr. Singer may not have even slowed an increasingly free-wheeling and Web-driven media culture.
''He has had no effect, so far as I know,'' said Martin Garbus, a First Amendment lawyer who represented a journalist, Roger Friedman, in a wrongful-termination suit against Fox News. At the time, Mr. Singer represented the actress Kelly Preston, who Mr. Friedman contended had hurt his relations with the company by complaining about his reporting. In an e-mail, Mr. Garbus said of Mr. Singer: ''I think of him as a blowhard.''
To triumph against the media can mean relying on foreign courts and lawyers. Not long ago, Mr. Singer said, he attended a two-day seminar with lawyers from Spain, Germany, France and elsewhere, at which they discussed how to coordinate strategies in libel cases. Britain, he said, used to be a favorite jurisdiction for filing such cases, but is ''more difficult now.''
Last year, back in the United States, the Gawker Web site took down a sex tape of the actor Eric Dane after settling a suit filed by Mr. Singer, but the issue in that case was an allegation of copyright infringement, not libel.
Mr. Singer acknowledges that defamation suits are tough to win, and seldom pay much. Usually, his aim is suppression. ''Our goal is to try to kill the story, to take action before things get out,'' says Mr. Singer, who will warn reporters against the consequences of falsehood, or, if he must, trade information to limit damage.
Even when those tactics don't work, the publicists who refer clients to Mr. Singer in moments of crisis have the comfort of knowing they have recruited the best.
''Does he get results? Absolutely, yes,'' says Kelly Bush, a Hollywood publicist whose firm, ID, asks Mr. Singer to help protect a star perhaps a half-dozen times a year. ''I've had only success with Marty Singer.''
NOTHING in Mr. Singer's background would have marked him as a guardian of superstars.
He was raised in Canarsie, Brooklyn, the son of a mother who had survived Auschwitz and a father who left Nazi-occupied Austria in his teens to spend much of World War II teaching soccer, his passion, to American soldiers on leave in Shanghai.
From his mother, Sari, who is still alive, Mr. Singer may have learned something about dealing with crisis. Late in the war, he says, she was pushed onto a train with other Jews and hauled from the camp to a field he believes to have been in Poland. The train stopped. The doors opened. Soldiers told the prisoners to run, and then gunned them down as they scrambled.
''But mother went under the car,'' Mr. Singer says.
Mr. Singer's father, Gyula, became a commercial artist in New York and eventually ran a business, with a factory and showroom in Manhattan, that counted theater backdrops among its lines of work.
As a student at the City College of New York, Mr. Singer considered a medical career, but decided he was too sensitive. ''I am a very emotional person, and will cry,'' he says.
Engineering, which required an especially heavy course load, was ruled out when his father died, forcing Mr. Singer to work long hours. He became a political science major, then went on to the Brooklyn Law School.
His wife, Deena, supported him with her work as a legal secretary.
After Mr. Singer's law school graduation in 1977, the couple moved to Southern California, where he left resumes at many Los Angeles firms. His wife got closer to the big time: She found work with a firm that included one of Hollywood's most prominent courtroom lawyers, Bert Fields.
Mr. Singer's break, though it was barely that, came when he was hired to do research for Schiff, Hirsch & Schreiber, an entertainment law firm that included both Gunther Schiff and Barry Hirsch, two well-known dealmakers. He picked up odd bits of litigation -- which he enjoyed for a time, until, in 1980, he was told the firm was folding. Some partners aligned with a major competitor, but Mr. Singer and Mr. Lavely, who also worked there, were left out of the mix.
''He was just an extraordinarily bright guy, an extraordinarily gregarious guy,'' says Ron Bass, the Hollywood screenwriter who at the time was a practicing lawyer and one of the partners who left Mr. Singer behind.
Mr. Singer and Mr. Lavely, who is eight years older and also does entertainment litigation, struck out on their own. The big Hollywood firms, several of which had no litigators, began to refer clients. In 1983, Mr. Singer scored an early coup when he was hired by the producer Lawrence Gordon, fresh off of ''48 Hours,'' to represent him in a fight with Paramount Pictures, which had locked his office door. More Brooklyn than Beverly Hills, Mr. Singer recognized the feud as a landlord-tenant dispute, and won a restraining order that, at least for a while, got his client back on the lot.
Earlier, he successfully represented the photographer Max Aguilera-Hellweg in a suit against Mr. Schwarzenegger, who was accused of misappropriating a photo for use in a body-building calendar. Mr. Schwarzenegger's deal-maker lawyer Jake Bloom was impressed enough to refer both Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Stallone to Mr. Singer for help with bits of trouble.
Cases and clients piled up, and a legal street fighter was born.
IN April, Mr. Singer showed up in a Santa Monica courtroom to plead Mr. Sheen's case against Warner and Mr. Lorre. Mr. Singer considers it a point of pride to personally handle at least five or six arbitration hearings or trials every year. This time, he was out to persuade Judge Allan J. Goodman of the Los Angeles County Superior Court that Mr. Sheen's fight should not be shunted to arbitration, where it would be hidden from the public, and conducted without the legal weaponry of a full-blown trial.
''We had no ability to negotiate this arbitration provision at all, not at all,'' Mr. Singer said in court, expressing indignation over contractual terms that he says were foisted on his star. His arms were outstretched. A light spray flew as he tore into an arrangement that, he said at one point, ''shocks the conscience.''
John Spiegel, a lawyer for Warner Brothers, asked to reserve five minutes of argument ''in case my friend Mr. Singer says something particularly outrageous.''
''Have you ever said anything outrageous, Mr. Singer?'' Judge Goodman asked.
''Not in a courtroom,'' Mr. Singer replied.
Steve Kram, president of Content Partners, a Hollywood financial firm, and a frequent golf partner of Mr. Singer, said, ''Marty doesn't hesitate to express his emotions exactly as he would if he were on the streets of Brooklyn.'' One incident, Mr. Kram recalled, found Mr. Singer unleashing ''a few choice comments'' at a party who was trying to hurry him along. He then marched down the fairway, Mr. Kram said, ''brandishing his 5-wood like a sword.''
In his practice, Mr. Singer enforces some house rules. Neither he nor his firm will represent movie studios -- relieving him and his firm of a duty to solicit conflict-of-interest waivers when they pursue companies for faulty accounting or other claims.
They also do no criminal work, Mr. Singer says.
But he will often refer clients to criminal lawyers, as happened with Nicolas Cage, who was arrested on domestic violence and other charges in New Orleans last month, only to have the matter dropped. ''There was no evidence; he never should have been charged,'' says Mr. Singer, who was helpless when it came to blocking the myriad media reports that resulted.
Mr. Cage was bailed out by Duane Chapman, the ''Dog the Bounty Hunter'' star who is another Singer client. Mr. Chapman has been waiting for a decision from the California labor commissioner, before whom Mr. Singer has been arguing a case against Mr. Chapman's former manager.
Over the years, Lavely & Singer has made a business of using such actions to help stars void obligations to managers who may have violated California law by booking engagements without becoming a licensed talent agent. In an early instance, Mr. Singer helped Richard Pryor recover fees paid to David Franklin, his manager at the time.
Mr. Singer recalled prevailing in a case that involved a manager whose bookings included one in which he got an actor-comedian a $500 job performing at a Christmas party so that the client would have money to buy gifts. With Mr. Singer's help, the actor managed to leave the manager and saved over $200,000 in commissions on a television series.
''I felt bad about that,'' Mr. Singer says of acting against a manager who obviously had helped the comic by booking business in a moment of need.
But the manager would later become a client, too. In Hollywood, that's how the fortune cookie crumbles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Martin D. Singer is known as a tough litigator for celebrities. He has long saved a fortune-cookie message that reads: ''Your intuitions in business decisions are good.'' (BU1)
Martin Singer's law firm shields celebrities from all kinds of annoyance, and is now a mainstay of Hollywood. ''We're one of the few firms that sue
we don't just send a letter,'' he says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''He's ferocious and fearless, he really is,'' Sylvester Stallone says about Mr. Singer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLEY GALLAY/GETTY IMAGES FOR LIONSGATE)
Mr. Singer represents Charlie Sheen in a suit related to the show ''Two and a Half Men.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES)
Mr. Singer helped Arnold Schwarzenegger, as a governor, deal with two lawsuits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Quentin Tarantino called on Mr. Singer to quiet a neighbor's screeching macaws. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN STEINBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); DOGS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); THEATER (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%); POISONINGS (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%)

PERSON: CHARLIE SHEEN (84%); NATHAN DEAL (72%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



720 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Needed: Plain Talk About the Dollar

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
AT a recent news conference, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, was asked about the falling dollar. He parried the question, saying that the Treasury secretary was the government's spokesman on the exchange rate -- and, of course, that the United States favors a strong dollar.
Listening to that statement, I flashed back to one of my first experiences as an adviser to Barack Obama. In November 2008, I was sharing a cab in Chicago with Larry Summers, the former Treasury secretary and a fellow economic adviser to the president-elect. To help prepare me for the interviews and the hearings to come, Larry graciously asked me questions and critiqued my answers.
When he asked about the exchange rate for the dollar, I began: ''The exchange rate is a price much like any other price, and is determined by market forces.'' 
''Wrong!'' Larry boomed. ''The exchange rate is the purview of the Treasury. The United States is in favor of a strong dollar.''
For the record, my initial answer was much more reasonable. Our exchange rate is just a price -- the price of the dollar in terms of other currencies. It is not controlled by anyone. And a high price for the dollar, which is what we mean by a strong dollar, is not always desirable.
Some countries, like China, essentially fix the price of their currency. But since the early 1970s, the United States has let the dollar's value move in response to changes in the supply and demand of dollars in the foreign exchange market. The Treasury no more determines the price of the dollar than the Department of Energy determines the price of gasoline. Both departments have a small reserve that they can use to combat market instability, but neither has the resources or the mandate to hold the relevant price away from its market equilibrium value for very long.
In practice, all that ''the exchange rate is the purview of the Treasury'' means is that no official other the Treasury secretary is supposed to talk about it (and even he isn't supposed to say very much). That strikes me as a shame. Perhaps if government officials could talk about the exchange rate forthrightly, there would be more understanding of the issues and more rational policy discussions.
Such discussions would start with some basic economics. The desire to trade with other countries or invest in them is what gives rise to the market for foreign exchange. You need euros to travel in Spain or to buy a German government bond, so you need a way to exchange currencies.
The supply of dollars to the foreign exchange market comes from Americans who want to buy goods, services or assets from abroad. The demand for dollars comes from foreigners who want to buy from the United States.
Anything that increases the demand for dollars or reduces the supply drives up the dollar's price. Anything that lowers the demand for dollars or raises the supply causes the dollar to weaken.
Consider two examples. Suppose American entrepreneurs create many products that foreigners want to buy, and start many companies they want to invest in. That will increase the demand for dollars and so cause the dollar's price to rise. Such innovation will also make Americans want to buy more goods and assets in the United States -- and fewer abroad. The supply of dollars to the foreign exchange market will fall, further strengthening the dollar. This example describes very well the conditions of the late 1990s -- when the dollar was indeed strong.
Now suppose the United States runs a large budget deficit that causes domestic interest rates to rise. Higher American interest rates make both foreigners and Americans want to buy more American bonds and fewer foreign bonds. Thus the demand for dollars increases and the supply decreases. The price of the dollar will again rise.
This example describes conditions in the early 1980s, when President Ronald Reagan's tax cuts and military buildup led to large deficits. Those deficits, along with the anti-inflationary policies of the Fed, where Paul A. Volcker was then the chairman, led to high American interest rates. The dollar was very strong in this period.
Both developments -- brilliant American innovation and troublesome American budget deficits -- caused the dollar to strengthen. Yet one is clearly a positive for the American economy, the other a negative. The point is that there is no universal good or bad direction for the dollar to move. The desirability of any shift in the exchange rate depends on why the dollar is moving.
It also depends on the state of the economy. At full employment, a strong dollar is good for standards of living. A high price for the dollar means that our currency buys a lot in foreign countries.
But in a depressed economy, it isn't so clear that a strong dollar is desirable. A weaker dollar means that our goods are cheaper relative to foreign goods. That stimulates our exports and reduces our imports. Higher net exports raise domestic production and employment. Foreign goods are more expensive, but more Americans are working. Given the desperate need for jobs, on net we are almost surely better off with a weaker dollar for a while.
Fed policy is determined by inflation and unemployment in the United States. But if Mr. Bernanke could discuss the exchange rate openly, he would probably tell you that one way any monetary expansion helps a distressed economy is by weakening the dollar. That is taught in every introductory economics course, yet the Fed is asked to pretend it isn't true.
Likewise, fiscal policy is determined by domestic considerations. But trimming our budget deficit, as we should over the coming years, would also weaken the dollar. And that, in turn, would blunt the negative impact of deficit reduction on employment and output in the short run.
STRANGELY, every politician seems to understand that it would be desirable for the dollar to weaken against one particular currency: the Chinese renminbi. For years, China has deliberately accumulated United States Treasury bonds to keep the dollar's value high in renminbi terms. The United States would export more and grow faster if China allowed the dollar's price to fall. Congress routinely threatens retaliation if China doesn't take steps that amount to weakening the dollar.
But in the very next breath, the same members of Congress shout about the importance of a strong dollar. If a decline in its value relative to the renminbi would be beneficial, a fall relative to the currency of many countries would help even more in the current situation.
To say this openly risks being branded not just an extremist but possibly un-American. Perhaps it is time for a more adult conversation. The exchange rate is the purview of market economics, not of the Treasury or strong-dollar ideologues.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (63%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (77%); BEN BERNANKE (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



721 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; EDITORS' CHOICE; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Recent books of particular interest

 BODY:
TO END ALL WARS: A Story of Loyalty and Rebellion, 1914-1918, by Adam Hochschild (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $28.) Hochschild's stirring account concentrates on the appalling losses in the ranks and on the extraordinary courage of the dissenters. 
ON CHINA, by Henry Kissinger (Penguin Press, $36.) China and America have become mutually dependent economic giants, Kissinger argues, but they need an overarching strategic design of partnership.
A SINGULAR WOMAN: The Untold Story of Barack Obama's Mother, by Janny Scott (Riverhead, $26.95.) Scott's biography presents a more complex picture than the one in the president's own books.
THE WIZARD OF LIES: Bernie Madoff and the Death of Trust, by Diana B. Henriques (Times Books/Holt, $30.) Madoff emerges here as a sad, hapless man who stumbled foolishly and blindly into what grew to be history's biggest Ponzi scheme.
SAINTS AND SINNERS: Stories, by Edna O'Brien (Back Bay/Little, Brown, paper, $13.99.) Some of O'Brien's restless, searching characters confront political violence, others reflect on disappointing loves.
CALEB'S CROSSING, by Geraldine Brooks (Viking, $26.95.) The heroine of this beautifully written historical novel must learn to exist within the confines set for women by the Massachusetts Bay Puritans.
DIVERGENT, by Veronica Roth (Katherine Tegen/HarperCollins, $17.99; ages 14 and up.) In Roth's briskly paced first novel, a girl must prove her mettle in an urban dystopia divided into five factions.
OKAY FOR NOW, by Gary D. Schmidt (Clarion/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $16.99, ages 10 to 14.) A novel about an eighth grader's healing through art.
ME . . . JANE, Written and illustrated by Patrick McDonnell (Little, Brown, $15.99; ages 3 to 6.) The story of Jane Goodall's childhood, charmingly told.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); WOMEN (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); PONZI SCHEMES (69%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (68%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



722 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Half a Doctrine Will Have to Do

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
WATCHING President Obama deal with the cascading uprisings in the Middle East this year has been a little like watching the Army Corps of Engineers try to stay one city ahead of the Mississippi River floodwaters. Every week, it seems, has brought a new decision: Mr. Obama supported Hosni Mubarak until it was clear that Egypt's own army would not, and then he waved as Mr. Mubarak was swept away. He tried to pile sandbags around friends in Bahrain, while blasting barriers away from an old foe in Libya. The leaders of Yemen and Syria refuse to go with the flow, as Washington points both toward the falls.
The contradictory approaches have startled some of America's allies. Even inside the White House, some officials were at pains to explain why Saudi forces rolling into Bahrain merited a mild news release, but Muammar el-Qaddafi's forces in Libya were bombed. ''Pragmatism is a great thing,'' a senior aide to Mr. Obama said over lunch in April. ''But somewhere in all this we have to lay out some principles.'' 
On Thursday, Mr. Obama tried to do just that -- arguing, after five months of pursuing American interests, that he is now ready to assert traditional American values as the ''top priority'' of American foreign policy. Even in the hardest cases, he said, ''there must be no doubt that the United States of America welcomes change that advances self-determination and opportunity.''
''After decades of accepting the world as it is in the region,'' he told an invited audience of Middle Eastern ambassadors and bloggers at the State Department, ''we have a chance to pursue the world as it should be.''
It was lofty stuff, with echoes of George W. Bush's second inaugural address, which called for a new American era in which the United States would fight for individual liberty around the world -- a message that was rejected in much of the world as a rationale for the invasion of Iraq. Now, as Mr. Obama heads to Europe, the question is: Which American president are they dealing with? The hard-headed pragmatist who bombed Benghazi to prevent a massacre and then violated Pakistan's sovereignty to knock off Osama bin Laden? Or the former law professor who has now promised 400 million people -- among them dissidents in Bahrain and Iran who say they have been abandoned -- that ''if you take the risks that reform entails, you will have the full support of the United States''?
''This is only part of a doctrine,'' said Vali Nasr, who left the State Department a month ago after working with the late Richard Holbrooke on Afghanistan and Pakistan. ''It explains the ideal, but he has to couple it with an implementation. We can't use the sharp edge of the policy only against countries we don't like, and exempt the countries we need. So in the end, the president is going to have to hold Bahrain to the same standard as Libya or Syria.''
Mr. Obama's bet, it appears, is that half a doctrine is all he needs right now. It is a moment when American policy needs coherence, even as Mr. Obama insists that a consistent set of tactics is impossible. For months, many Arabs labeled him an opportunist who used uprisings to his advantage in some corners of the Middle East, and ignored them when they threatened to interfere with oil markets or upend America's strategy to contain Iran. So he could no longer stay silent about his broader principles.
''The president wanted to clearly and unequivocally embrace change in the region,'' said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser who drafts many of Mr. Obama's speeches on these issues. ''It was necessary for him to step back and say that not only does he support the aspirations of the people we have seen in the streets, but supporting them is in our long-term interest.''
Still, comparing the Arab uprisings to the American Revolution or the civil rights movement is not without risk. Having spent the first five months of the rolling revolts in a daily, ad-hoc calculation of American interests, Mr. Obama's own speech is now bound to put his every future action under a microscope.
If the royal family in Bahrain continues to listen to King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia -- who sent troops into Bahrain to make sure that any threat to his neighbor would be met with maximum force -- does the president openly split with the Saudis? That seems highly unlikely at a time of $4 a gallon gas and a growing threat from Iran. If the newly empowered voice of the people in Egypt gives an opening to the Muslim Brotherhood, and threatens Egypt's peace accord with Israel, does the president go forward with his promise of debt relief and loans?
''We think there's a 'Muslim Brotherhood exception' to the aid package,'' one of Mr. Obama's strategists said last week.
In his speech, Mr. Obama did not explore such hypotheticals (or even mention the Saudis), and the reason was clear: The Middle East is complicated enough without discussing painful decisions that do not yet have to be made.
But in talks with his staff, it was clear that the president believes that by embracing a long-term goal of self-determination, he is allowing himself room to maneuver through the next year or so. ''There will be times when our short-term interests don't align perfectly with our long-term vision,'' he said in the speech, without suggesting how he would handle those conflicts.
Mr. Obama is hardly the first president to face the problem. Jimmy Carter tried to base his foreign policy on a human rights agenda, but it often made him look weak in the eyes of adversaries. George W. Bush tried to cast the Iraq war as part of a ''freedom agenda.'' To his fans, that is the lasting message of his presidency, but his critics recall that weapons of mass destruction were an earlier justification for that war.
In his first two years in office, Mr. Obama said little about democratic transformations as a core goal. But now he has begun speaking of them as a central part of the ''alternative narrative'' to Al Qaeda's theology, or Iran's.
''The last decade was defined by Bin Laden and the war in Iraq,'' Mr. Rhodes said. ''The fact that the war is winding down and Bin Laden is gone creates an opportunity, coming out of one chapter of American engagement and entering another.''
But this next chapter is a gamble of a different kind. Even seemingly democratic revolutions create power vacuums, and the governments that arise can be unpredictable. Egypt's popular uprising may yet produce a duly-elected government subservient to the military. The Bush administration pressed for elections in the Palestinian territories and was astounded when Hamas emerged a victor.
Mr. Obama clearly has faith that by showering Egypt and Tunisia with aid and offering to integrate them into Western economies, he can create a powerful example for other states to follow in making the transition. Saudi Arabia and Israel believe that this view is naive, and that the region would be better off with strong authoritarians than weak democrats.
That is the new doctrinal struggle as the Arab Spring slips into a long, hot summer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COMBAT: In March, Libyan rebels were reeling from attacks by the government. Then, with American backing, NATO intervened. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); IRAQ WAR (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (73%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); BAHRAIN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



723 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (CBS) JESSE STONE: INNOCENTS LOST (2011) Tom Selleck, above, fresh off the first season of the recently renewed police drama ''Blue Bloods,'' reprises his role as Chief Stone, the novelist Robert B. Parker's beleaguered detective in the fictional Paradise, Mass., whose battles with alcohol and his ex-wife have made his life anything but bliss. In this seventh installment, a newly reinstated Stone is jolted by the death of a teenage girl he tried to help go straight, prompting him to investigate the situation while acting as a consultant in the case of a murder convict who may be innocent. Kathy Baker (as Deputy Rose Gammon), Kohl Sudduth (Deputy Luther Simpson), Stephen McHattie (State Homicide Commander Healy) and William Devane (Stone's psychiatrist, Dr. Dix) fill out the cast.
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR Ms. Amanpour interviews King Abdullah II of Jordan, who on Tuesday met with President Obama. 
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Chris Wallace interviews Herman Cain, a former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza and a potential Republican 2012 presidential candidate, about his standing following the G.O.P.'s first presidential debate in Greenville, S.C.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Bob Schieffer interviews the 2012 Republican presidential candidate and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, discusses the debate over raising the debt ceiling, criticism of his budget proposal and the future of Medicare.
11 A.M. (TV One) WASHINGTON WATCH WITH ROLAND MARTIN Austan Goolsbee, the chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, adds his voice to the debate over raising the debt ceiling and its effect on economic recovery. Cornel West, the Princeton University professor, explains his statement on Truthdig.com that President Obama has ''a certain fear of free black men.''
7 P.M. (Animal Planet) PANDAMANIA Season 9 of ''Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom'' ends with this painfully cute survival story of the panda, and the collaboration between the East and West that brought this creature back from the brink of extinction through breeding measures and reintroduction into the wild.
8 P.M. (ABC) THE 2011 BILLBOARD MUSIC AWARDS Ken Jeong (''Community,'' ''The Hangover'') hosts this ceremony, broadcast live from the MGM Grand in Las Vegas, honoring Billboard chart toppers from Feb. 28, 2010, through March 1, 2011, in genres including R&B, rap, pop, country, rock, Latin and alternative. Cee Lo Green, Nicki Minaj, Pitbull, Mary J. Blige, Snoop Dogg, Lil Wayne, the Black Eyed Peas, Rihanna, Lady Antebellum, Kesha and Ne-Yo are scheduled to perform. Beyonce will be honored with the Millennium award, celebrating her career and influence on the music industry. Neil Diamond will receive the Icon award, given to an ''enduring legend in music.''
8 P.M. (Disney) SHARPAY'S FABULOUS ADVENTURE (2011) Sharpay Evans (Ashley Tisdale) takes Manhattan after being spotted by a Broadway producer at the Lava Springs Country Club in this ''High School Musical'' spinoff. But once she sets stilettoed foot on the Great White Way, she discovers that the producer only wants her for her dog, Boi. Now Sharpay must prove her independence -- or move back home with her parents.
10 P.M. (Discovery) TORNADO RAMPAGE 2011 On April 27 nearly 200 recorded tornadoes ripped across the South, killing more than 300 people and making history as the worst tornado outbreak since 1974. Reed Timmer, Sean Casey and Tim Samaras of ''Storm Chasers'' happened to be filming that day, and captured the never-before-seen footage of the destruction shown in this hourlong special. ''In all my years of chasing tornadoes, this was hands down the most unforgettable day,'' Mr. Timmer says. ''The intensity of the storm activity and the sheer number of tornadoes that touched down is overwhelming and heartbreaking. By studying this historic day we hope to learn more information for our research and help better predict tornadoes and save lives.''
10 P.M. (AMC) THE KILLING Detectives Linden (Mireille Enos) and Holder (Joel Kinnaman) slam into an obstacle in their efforts to arrest Bennett Ahmed (Brandon Jay McLaren) for Rosie Larsen's death. Meanwhile, Councilman Richmond (Billy Campbell) wrestles with the effects of his association with Ahmed on the mayoral race. And the Larsens, frustrated by the police department's inability to solve their daughter's murder, decide to take control of the situation. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK HODES/CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HOMICIDE (75%); MURDER (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); DEBT CEILING (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); WILDLIFE (72%); WRITERS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); MAMMALS (65%); BUDGETS (64%); POP & ROCK (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (63%); RAP MUSIC (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); MUSIC (60%); COUNTRY MUSIC (60%); JAZZ & BLUES (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (66%); CEE LO GREEN (60%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); NEWT GINGRICH (51%); LIL WAYNE (50%); HERMAN CAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (54%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%); JORDAN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



724 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Confederate General Buried Far From the Battlefield

BYLINE: STEPHEN REX BROWN


HIGHLIGHT: The grave of Robert Selden Garnett, killed in Virginia in 1861, has been found in Green-Wood Cemetery, where a Civil War sesquicentennial commemoration is planned.

 BODY:
Robert Selden Garnett, the first general killed in the Civil War, was buried in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, but his family did not want visitors to the cemetery to know it.
Named brigadier general in 1861, Garnett briefly commanded Confederate troops in western Virginia before being shot dead in the battle of Corrick's Ford on July 13, 1861.
According to research by the cemetery, one of his last cries on the battlefield was "Three cheers for Jeff Davis!"
But that Confederate pride did not follow Garnett to the grave.
Union forces turned over Garnett's body to his family, who buried him in Baltimore. Four years later, the family decided he should lie in Brooklyn alongside his wife and son, who had died before the war. They exhumed Garnett's remains and secretly re-interred him in Green-Wood, leaving his grave unmarked for fear of anti-Southern sentiments. 
Earlier this month, and 150 years after his death, Garnett finally received a headstone at the historic cemetery, as a result of the painstaking research of volunteers. He is one of 75 soldiers of the Confederate army whose remains have been discovered in Green-Wood by the researchers, who have been sorting through records since 2002.
So far, Jeffrey I. Richman, the historian of Green-Wood Cemetery, has documented 4,600 people who fought in the war, nearly half of them in unmarked graves.
But the Confederate veterans who were laid to rest far north of the Mason-Dixon line, with no acknowledgment of their service etched in stone, particularly intrigued Mr. Richman.
"It seems a number of them had economic ties to New York before the war," he said. "Some of the Confederate officers were looking for economic opportunities and came up."
Gilbert Elliott, a shipbuilder and first lieutenant from North Carolina, was one of those Southern sympathizers who settled in the heart of Yankee territory.
At 19, Elliott commanded a Confederate crew in North Carolina who built the Albermarle, a 152-foot ironclad warship that tormented Union forces for much of 1864. Mr. Richman said the research showed that Elliott, like many of the other Confederate veterans found in the cemetery, spent his final years living around New York, associating with his former battlefield foes.
"They were going to dinners with the Union guys, hoist a few for old times' sake," Mr. Richman said. "They'd go to reunions together - they weren't hostile to each other."
Mr. Richman's research began as a casual project among Civil War buffs in 2002 to identify the graves of about 200 veterans buried at the cemetery. But the historians quickly ventured deeper into archives, requiring the efforts of volunteers from as far away as California and Florida.
The team discovered 2,000 graves that were missing, unmarked or severely damaged, and obtained gravestones for them from the federal Department of Veterans Affairs. Calls and e-mails from descendants of Civil War veterans searching for relatives' remains are received almost every day.
"We joke that our Civil War project has lasted more than twice as long as the Civil War itself," Mr. Richman said. "And we're still going."
Not surprisingly, Mr. Richman has noticed a surge in interest in the cemetery's research coinciding with the 150th anniversary of the Civil War. The sesquicentennial will be commemorated at Green-Wood on Memorial Day weekend with a candlelight procession led by Civil War re-enactors on horseback, musket salutes and music.
But the research is far from over. By Mr. Richman's estimate, more than 3,000 unrecognized veterans' graves may still be in the cemetery, home to about 600,000 souls.
"With the price they paid, the least we can do is recognize their service to their country, and make sure they have a gravestone that shows where they lay," he said.

        
Way Back Machine | The Zouaves Depart
        
A Look at Life During (Civil) Wartime
        
New York Doesn't Care to Remember the Civil War
        
After Decades, Remains of a 'Magical Voice' Will Come to Rest
        
A Seneca Indian Connects With His New York Roots

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); HISTORY (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); CEMETERIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); SHIPBUILDING (62%) Civil War; Green-Wood Cemetery; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Veterans; Green-Wood Cemetery (NYC); Brooklyn; Buildings and Landmarks; Local History

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (94%) Green-Wood Cemetery (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



725 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Asia Society Appoints Two Leaders

BYLINE: KATE TAYLOR


HIGHLIGHT: The Asia Society is for the first time naming two leaders of the board, one based in the United States and one in Asia.

 BODY:
The balance of power between the United States and Asia has shifted dramatically since 1956, when John D. Rockefeller III founded the Asia Society to promote greater understanding of Asia in the United States. In response, the Asia Society is shifting its center of gravity from New York to its outposts in Hong Kong, Mumbai, Manila and elsewhere. 
As part of this effort, the Asia Society is for the first time naming two leaders of the board, one based in the United States and one in Asia. Henrietta Holsman Fore, a former chief of the United States Agency for International Development, and Ronnie C. Chan, a real estate developer in Hong Kong and China, will assume joint leadership of the board on June 10, taking over from Charles R. Kaye. Ms. Fore is the first woman and Mr. Chan the first Asian, to lead the board. Next year the Asia Society will open a new $52 million center in Hong Kong, which will include a museum, theater, cafe, event spaces and offices. 
The society's president, Vishakha Desai, said in an e-mail that the decision to have two leaders was part of an effort to further develop programs, influence and fund-raising in Asia.

        
An Abrupt Downturn in Sales of Asian Art

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); SALES FIGURES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%) Asia Society; Asian art; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; art & design; arts general; New York City

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (94%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



726 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: CNBC Takes a Hollywood Turn

BYLINE: BRIAN STELTER


HIGHLIGHT: An HBO film uses archived news reports and rerecorded summaries from CNBC to narrate the darkest days of the financial crisis in 2008.

 BODY:
Every few minutes in "Too Big to Fail," the film about the darkest days of the financial crisis in 2008 that will have its premiere Monday on HBO, something happens that once seemed unbelievable. Banks collapse. Balance sheets crumble. Government officials plot extraordinary interventions to curb the free fall.
And every few minutes, a news clip or a sound bite from CNBC pops up, seemingly as a reminder to the viewer that it all really happened in real time. In a sense, the news became an extra actor in the film.
In the movie, adapted from the book by Andrew Ross Sorkin of The New York Times, some of the news clips are exactly as heard or shown on CNBC as the crisis unfolded. But other scenes are amalgams of broadcasts from different times in the same week.
CNBC anchors and reporters reread, and in some cases, reshot some of their reports.
Erin Burnett, then a CNBC anchor, said she had "something like five outfits" for the reshoots and was "done in less than half an hour."
HBO, which is owned by Time Warner, struck a licensing deal with CNBC, which is controlled by Comcast's NBC Universal division, for the footage.
The film also uses footage from news programs on CNN, which, like HBO, is owned by Time Warner. But CNBC is still the sort of omnipresent narrator, giving a play-by-play about troubled banks and the federal response to the troubles.
Michelle Caruso-Cabrera and others from CNBC were among those at a film screening in New York last week. "As it was happening we knew we were on the front lines of something historic, so it makes sense that HBO would use CNBC as the voice, but it was thrilling and gratifying to actually watch it," Ms. Caruso-Cabrera said in an e-mail.
The film also shows the role that CNBC played in funneling information between the government and Wall Street. In one pivotal scene, Henry Paulson, then the Treasury secretary, directs his staff to leak word that the government will not aid Lehman Brothers; in the next scene, Lehman executives direct their attention to the TV set as CNBC relays Mr. Paulson's sentiments. 

        
HBO Talking to DeNiro for Movie About Madoff
        
CNN Hires Erin Burnett and Plans New Show
        
CNBC's Burnett Is Said Ready to Jump to CNN
        
What Changes Are Really Afoot at CNBC? 
        
Media Decoded: HBO's Treme Builds on Pulitzer Prize Reporting

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (54%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%) CNBC; hbo; Movies; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Too Big to Fail (Movie); Television

COMPANY: HOME BOX OFFICE INC (91%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%)

ORGANIZATION: CNBC

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



727 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1676 words

HEADLINE: Daniels Decides Against Republican Presidential Bid

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana has decided not to seek the Republican presidential nomination, telling supporters in an e-mail message early Sunday that he decided against entering the race because of family considerations.

 BODY:
Updated | 1:42 p.m.
Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana said early Sunday that he would not become a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, telling supporters in an e-mail message that concerns from his family were the overriding factor in deciding to stay out of the race.
"In the end, I was able to resolve every competing consideration but one," Mr. Daniels wrote. "The interests and wishes of my family is the most important consideration of all. If I have disappointed you, I will always be sorry."
His announcement answers one of the most highly anticipated questions about the 2012 Republican campaign, but introduces new uncertainty into the race. He is the latest in a string of prominent Republicans to decline a presidential bid, leaving the field without a clear front-runner less than eight months before the first voting could begin. 
Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor; Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi; and Donald J. Trump, the businessman and reality TV star, have all announced in recent weeks that they would not seek the Republican nomination. Sarah Palin, a former governor of Alaska, has yet to declare her intentions. But the rest of the field is coming together.
Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota, is scheduled to announce his candidacy on Monday. The decision by Mr. Daniels to stay out of the race could elevate the prospects for Mr. Pawlenty, who is trying to become a leading alternative to Mitt Romney, who sought the party's nomination in 2008 and plans to run again.
Mr. Daniels delivered the news in an unusual way, explaining his decision in a telephone call to a small circle of confidants late Saturday. A few hours later, he sent a brief message to top contributors and political leaders who had expressed an interest in his candidacy. The e-mail was sent after midnight by Eric Holcomb, chairman of the Indiana Republican Party and one of Mr. Daniels' closest political advisers.
"I hope this reaches you before the public news does," Mr. Daniels wrote. "If so, please respect my confidence for the short time until I can make it known to all."
The message, which was obtained by The New York Times, was confirmed by another aide to Mr. Daniels in Indianapolis. It was a crushing blow to admirers who had rallied around the idea of a Daniels candidacy, including more than 1,000 Republicans who filled a hotel ballroom in Indianapolis last week and held signs declaring: "Run Mitch Run."
For weeks, Mr. Daniels has inched closer to entering the Republican race, declaring recently at the state party dinner: "I'm not saying I won't do it." And several party leaders urged him to run, saying that his experience on fiscal issues would strengthen the ticket.
In his brief message early Sunday, Mr. Daniels acknowledged that his decision would be a disappointment to many supporters, but he implored them to understand his rationale.
"If you feel that this was a non-courageous or unpatriotic decision, I understand and will not attempt to persuade you otherwise," Mr. Daniels wrote. "I only hope that you will accept my sincerity in the judgment I reached."
Mr. Daniels had been widely expected to make his decision known this week. In an interview with reporters last Thursday in South Bend, Ind., Mr. Daniels signaled that the time had come for him to disclose his intentions.
"People have been very patient and understanding," he said, "but I have a sensitivity that I owe people an answer."
Mr. Daniels expounded on his decision in a statement to The Indianapolis Star, saying that the concerns of his wife and his four daughters were the main factors in his determination.
"On matters affecting us all, our family constitution gives a veto to the women's caucus, and there is no override provision," Mr. Daniels said. "Simply put, I find myself caught between two duties. I love my country; I love my family more."
Mr. Daniels kept his own counsel on his decision, aides said, with many of his closest political advisers unaware of his intentions. But he signaled his concerns nearly every time that he spoke about the race publicly.
His wife, Cheri, has made no secret of her distaste for politics. She did not campaign for her husband during his two races for governor. This is her second marriage to Mr. Daniels. In 1993, she left her husband and four daughters and moved to California to marry another man -- only to remarry Mr. Daniels in 1997.
Many supporters assumed that his family was warming to the idea of a presidential campaign, particularly when Mrs. Daniels delivered a rare political speech at the state Republican Party dinner on May 12 in Indianapolis. But after the appearance, Mrs. Daniels made clear that the family had not signed off on a campaign, saying: "You have good days and bad days. One day you feel one way, another day you might feel differently."
For his part, when asked directly whether he wanted to be president, Mr. Daniels said: "I haven't decided yet."
A few minutes later, when pressed again, he added: "You have to decide if this is really the way you'd like to spend - maybe - the rest of your life."
While Mr. Daniels said that family concerns ultimately kept him from the race, he issued a separate statement to The Indianapolis Star seeking to clarify one period of his family's history. The couple got married in 1978, divorced in 1994, and remarried in 1997. Mrs. Daniels briefly moved to California, while Mr. Daniels took primary care of their four girls.
"The notion that Cheri ever did or would abandon her girls or parental duty is the reverse of the truth and absurd to anyone who knows her, as I do, to be the best mother any daughter ever had," Mr. Daniels said in the statement. He added, "Until we remarried, we shared custody fully, the girls dividing their time between the two homes."
Mr. Daniels, a former budget director in the White House under President George W. Bush, had secured the fund-raising commitments and political support from a large contingent of alumni from the Bush network. In recent days, aides said, several contributors sent word to Mr. Daniels that they needed an answer soon.
The message from Mr. Daniels early Sunday indicated that he appreciated the support.
"The counsel and encouragement I received from important citizens like you caused me to think very deeply about becoming a national candidate," he wrote.
He added, "Many thanks for your help and input during this period of reflection. Please stay in touch if you see ways in which an obscure Midwestern governor might make a constructive contribution to the rebuilding of our economy and our Republic."
Both supporters and rivals praised Mr. Daniels on Sunday.
Newt Gingrich, the former house speaker and a Republican presidential candidate, called Mr. Daniels "a terrific talent" and "one of the great reform governors in this country." "He would have been a very formidable competitor. I mean, I really thought he would be in the front-runners from day one if he had decided to run," he told CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday.
Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, who has also been a keen proponent of fiscal austerity, said he was disappointed that Mr. Daniels had dropped out. He dismissed any suggestion that he himself was considering running. "I am disappointed. I think his candidacy would have been a great addition to this race and I think it's unfortunate that he's not going to run," he told NBC's "Meet the Press."
Mark Lubbers, a long-times associate and adviser to Mr. Daniels, told The Indianapolis Star it was ironic that Mr. Daniels had ultimately made family a priority over politics, since in the past, he had come under criticism by some on the religious right for making economics more important than divisive social issues like abortion. "I think it's fabulously ironic that the candidate criticized by the family values caucus has made a decision based 100 percent on family values," he said.
Mr. Holcomb, who managed the governor's 2008 re-election campaign, told The Star that his emotions were "bittersweet." He said the nation would miss a unique talent who is able to connect with voters while also possessing a wonkish ability to work on nuanced policies.
"For his 800-pound brain, he's got a populist instinct that is just remarkable," Mr. Lubbers said.
The Indiana Democratic Party said Mr. Daniels would have brought a degree of gravitas to the race. "We've disagreed with Mitch Daniels myriad times, but there's no doubt that his decision not to enter this race is a loss for Republicans," said Dan Parker, the chairman. "Daniels would have brought a serious tone to a G.O.P. field that's thus far been characterized by silliness and distraction."
Mr. Daniels, who is popular in his own state, came to prominence in Indiana as an austerity-minded fiscal conservative who privatized some government services, including the construction of highways. During his first term, he became known as "Governor Privatize,'' a name he disliked. Mr. Bush nicknamed him "the Blade" in reference to his acumen as a cost-cutter.
A political assistant in the White House under President Ronald Reagan, he subsequently became an executive at Eli Lilly in his native Indiana. In 2004, he was elected governor; he was re-elected, more narrowly, in 2008.
Mr. Daniels's fiscal prudence was considered a key asset in elections where the deficit is expected to feature prominently. As governor, he has reduced the number of state workers by 18 percent and held spending growth below inflation. Under his stewardship, Indiana finds itself in better fiscal health than many other states.
In an interview on Thursday in Indiana, Mr. Daniels said that he was still actively considering the race. When asked whether it was a painful decision to make, he said: "It's complicated."

        
Democrats' New Tactic: Praising 2012 Republicans
        
G.O.P. Candidates Line Up to Compliment Huckabee
        
A Non-Paul Libertarian Joins the Republican Fray
        
Republican Governors Split on Collective Bargaining
        
A Thanksgiving Guide to the 2012 Republican Field

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (64%); REALITY TELEVISION (52%) Mitch Daniels; Presidential Election of 2012; presidential nominees; Republicans; Daniels, Mitchell E Jr; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); BRAD HENRY (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); DONALD TRUMP (52%) Daniels, Mitchell E Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%) INDIANA, USA (99%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



728 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Workers of the World, Please See Our Web Site

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
You can still be a card-carrying Communist in New York, but these days committed Communists usually register online.
''We actually have a card, but we don't make a big deal of it,'' said Sam Webb, the national chairman of the Communist Party U.S.A.
The Socialist Party U.S.A. does distribute red cards to members willing to ''subscribe to the principles'' of the party, but another leftist group, the Democratic Socialists of America, prefers online registration, with members using a virtual shopping cart to pay yearly dues of about $60 by credit card -- Marx be damned.
In some ways, the Left remains locked in place. Its three major national parties are still confined to cramped Manhattan offices that are plastered with gaudy posters and honeycombed with pamphlets for distribution and envelopes for stuffing. 
But in other ways the landscape has changed significantly. All three parties are finding the Internet to be a fruitful recruiting tool and believe their message has been given a fresh, beguiling appeal by the failures of capitalist symbols like Lehman Brothers and by debacles like the billions of dollars in securities tied to subprime mortgages.
''The economic crisis of 2008 gave us new life,'' said Billy Wharton, a co-chairman of the Socialist Party, who grew enamored of socialism while battling tuition increases as a student at the College of Staten Island. ''We have ideas for resolving the economic crisis, and people began to listen to them.''
Rather than trumpeting membership numbers, the parties, embracing the norms of the digital era, prefer to discuss the number of hits on their Web sites and Facebook pages. And philosophically, they take a kind of I-told-you-so schadenfreude in statistics that indicate a growing gap between the rich and the poor, with top chief executives now making 275 times as much as the average proletarian.
Still, it is hard to imagine that the parties have inherited a revolutionary tradition once so popular that in the 1932 presidential election, Norman Thomas, the Socialist candidate, garnered 884,000 votes and William Z. Foster, the Communist candidate, had over 100,000. But then again, after the breakup of the Soviet Union and the collapse of socialist republics in Eastern Europe, some people may be surprised to learn that these parties are still around.
All three have greatly shrunk from their heydays. The Socialist Party has about 1,000 members nationally. The Communists claim 2,000. The Democratic Socialists, which for many years included luminaries like Michael Harrington and Irving Howe, have about 6,000.
''It's not easy to make political progress outside the two-party structure because people don't want to waste their votes,'' said Frank Llewellyn, 62, the national director of the Democratic Socialists, who became a socialist as a result of the civil rights and antiwar movements.
Rather than battling for power through elections, all three parties try to sway the national conversation through coalitions with labor unions and other mainstream organizations. Both socialist groups turned out at City Hall this month to protest budget cuts, at a rally that was largely organized by the unions.
But on matters of principle, the leftist parties diverge. All three oppose President Obama's health care program, seeing it as a giveaway to insurance companies and preferring either a single-payer government plan or a socialized system like that of Britain, where doctors work for the government.
The Socialists sometimes do have candidates who run in states where the rules for getting on the ballot are not too onerous; Greg Pason, the national secretary, ran for governor of New Jersey in 2009. But the Democratic Socialists see that effort as futile and prefer endorsements; they supported David N. Dinkins and Ruth W. Messinger in their mayoral bids in New York City.
The parties' enduring character is obvious in visits to their offices. The Socialist Party is housed in a tumbledown building on Lafayette Street known informally as the ''Peace Pentagon'' or the A. J. Muste building, not because the name approximates its mildewed atmosphere but because Mr. Muste was a benefactor of the peace groups that the building houses. The Democratic Socialists even have a foothold on Wall Street, with cluttered offices in a building on Maiden Lane. It is not because Wall Street has suddenly adopted a philosophy of ''to each according to his own needs.''
''It's cheap,'' Mr. Llewellyn explained. ''This is an area of the city where you get the best deals.''
The Communists even own the means of production -- they lease out their eight-story building on West 23rd Street to other left-wing organizations. The party has the most decorous space, having redesigned its office with glass walls and tall windows.
''We're not up to some nefarious business we have to hide from the American government,'' said Libero Della Piana, 38, the party's communications director.
Physical space matters less these days than virtual space. All three groups have lively Web sites that flaunt their philosophies and histories. Mr. Della Piana, the child of an Italian anarchist, boasts that the Communists' news site has 25,000 unique visitors a week; before it stopped publishing in the late 1960s, its newspaper, The Daily Worker, was read by just 5,000 subscribers. In 2010, he said, 700 prospective members applied through the Web site.
Recent disclosures of capitalist excesses have given the parties a second wind after the collapse of the Soviet Union suggested the bankruptcy of collectivist philosophy. Mr. Llewellyn said that since 2007 his party's membership had increased by 50 percent, to 6,000.
''People see the consequences of unregulated markets, greed, a lack of checks on the power of the private flow of capital to drive the economy and undermine jobs,'' Mr. Llewellyn said.
Mr. Webb, who joined the Communists in the 1970s, likes to emphasize the party's rich history, including the fight against McCarthyism and the volunteers who helped the Spanish Republicans battle the Fascists, rather than more unpleasant episodes like the case of the American Communist Julius Rosenberg, who spied for the Soviet Union.
Mr. Della Piana says the Soviet Union's dissolution freed the party to be more ideological because ''no one could ever say again we were puppets.''
''We have a whole generation of young people attracted to the idea of communism without the baggage of the cold war,'' he said.
After declining to 250 members in 1980, the Socialist Party's membership has quadrupled, Mr. Wharton said. He was even asked to appear on a Fox affiliate when conservatives raised suspicions that Mr. Obama was a socialist.
''They thought I'd go on and on and actually support the policies of President Obama,'' said Mr. Wharton, 42, a General Educational Development, or G.E.D., teacher in Brooklyn. ''The question was 'Is he a socialist?' and my answer was 'I'm not sure he's even a liberal.' I called him a hedge-fund Democrat.''
None of the parties view their existence as futile -- immersing themselves in everyday local battles, they believe, will spread their influence.
''Socialism won't come to this country until tens of millions decide capitalism doesn't work for them,'' Mr. Webb said. ''If you're a revolutionary, if you're a socialist, you have to have patience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jared Abbott, left, Andrew Porter and Frank Llewellyn, all Democratic Socialists, after a rally on living wages. Below left, Billy Wharton, a co-chairman of the Socialist Party, in his office on Lafayette Street. Below right, Sam Webb, left, the national chairman of the Communist Party, and Libero Della Piana, communications director. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); TUITION FEES (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (51%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTS OF AMERICA (83%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



729 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Analysts Wary of LinkedIn's Stock Surge

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
What are shares of LinkedIn really worth?
In a sizzling debut last week on the New York Stock Exchange, investors sent stock in LinkedIn, the social-networking site for business professionals, soaring 109 percent on its first day of trading. While the enthusiasm subsided a tad the next day, LinkedIn's shares still closed the week at around $93, more than twice the company's initial offering price. This put the value of the company, which made $15 million in profit last year, at more than $8 billion.
From Wall Street to Silicon Valley, the debate was whether this stunning performance echoed the late 1990s, when the bubble around dot-com companies began to inflate. On its first day of trading in 1995, Netscape stock doubled in price. Yahoo shares rose 154 percent on its 1996 offering. TheGlobe.com shot up to $97 from $9 in its first day of trading in 1998, giving it a valuation of about $850 million. 
LinkedIn's first-day trading gain was the fifth highest since 2001, but the top three were Chinese Internet stocks like Baidu, which zoomed 354 percent on its debut in 2005, with Nymex No. 4.
''In both cases, the Internet bubble of the late 1990s and now, investors are assigning some very optimistic valuations,'' said Jay Ritter, a professor of finance at the University of Florida.
Still, many people are hesitant to proclaim that the markets are on the cusp of another tech bubble or that the markets are returning to the days when unprofitable new companies could be valued at billions of dollars. In those days, companies without earnings were assessed with measurements like ''eyeballs,'' the number of people who visited a site; ''stickiness,'' how long they visited; and even ''mindshare,'' how aware the public was of the company or category.
''LinkedIn is not a company you have to value on page views. We're not talking about a start-up here,'' said Matt Therian, a research analyst at Renaissance Capital, based in Greenwich, Conn. ''This is a company that grew revenues by 110 percent in the first quarter and, on top of that, it's actually turned a profit.''
By far, the hottest segment of the Internet market is social media companies. The social buying site Groupon, which raised $1 billion from investors in January, is said to be considering an offering that could value the company at $20 billion.
And the barometer for the segment, Facebook, which is widely expected to go public next year, has rocketed higher in the private secondary markets with its shares trading at an implied valuation of as much as $80 billion in recent months.
As the first social media company out of the gates into the public markets, LinkedIn benefited from all of the attention Facebook has ginned up.
''Do you really imagine that LinkedIn could have gotten this valuation if not for the excitement of Facebook?'' asked Kevin Landis, the chief investment officer of Firsthand Funds, which rode the tech boom and bust a decade ago. ''I don't know anybody who could make that case.''
LinkedIn's valuation, many analysts say, is partly a function of investor demand for all things social media but also related to the fact that a limited number of shares -- nine million -- were issued. Those shares traded 30 million times in the first day.
Initial public offerings remain rare now, and this scarcity can drive up prices. Only 154 companies went public in 2010, and 63 have so far this year, compared with 486 in 1999.
Of course, the big question is whether LinkedIn is destined to become the next Google or Amazon, or whether it is another TheGlobe.com, which was a penny stock by 2001, when the dot-com bubble burst.
At LinkedIn's current valuation, investors are clearly betting the company will show phenomenal growth, analysts say. LinkedIn is trading at about 554 times last year's earnings of $15 million (the company posted losses in 2008 and 2009).
That compares with a price-to-trailing-earnings ratio of 149 when Google made its debut in the markets or, in a more extreme example, the 947.5 ratio eBay received in its first day of trading, according to data from Mr. Ritter.
Price-to-earnings comparisons for other hot Internet companies, like TheGlobe.com or even Netscape on their opening days, are difficult as they did not have any earnings.
By another closely watched measurement, LinkedIn is trading at around 25 times this year's expected sales, said Rick Summer, a senior equity analyst at the Chicago research firm Morningstar.
That's high, and Mr. Summer says LinkedIn could increase its revenue to $1.5 billion in five years, from $243 million last year. That makes LinkedIn worth about $27 a share, by his estimate.
With LinkedIn shares trading at $93, investors are betting the company's revenue will rise to $4 billion in five years, Mr. Summer said.
Impossible? No. Difficult? Yes, say analysts.
But that valuation makes sense if an investor believes someone would pay even more for the stock. And that's how bubbles form.
LinkedIn, which has about 100 million members, does have a revenue model. It offers what is called a freemium business model: users can create free profiles or they can pay a subscription fee for a premium account with special features.
LinkedIn also charges businesses and recruiters for hiring. Although the company is still growing quickly, it faces tough competition from other sites, like the job listing services Monster and CareerBuilder.
The company has repeatedly said it plans to invest in its platform, at the expense of short-term profit, a move that is potentially good for the company over the years, but could make it tough for investors to justify current market valuations, analysts warn.
Mr. Summer said, ''We think it's a very good financial model and a good business, but at these valuations, it's potentially, 'Watch out below.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reid Garrett Hoffman, left, and Jeff Weiner of LinkedIn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Stock in LinkedIn soared on Thursday, its first day on the New York Stock Exchange, valuing the company at over $8 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); GROUP BUYING (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: LINKEDIN CORP (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); THEGLOBE.COM INC (56%); GROUPON INC (51%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (54%)

TICKER: LNKD (NYSE) (92%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (51%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



730 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: TV Justice Thrives On Fear

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; Twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
This week, it was announced that ''America's Most Wanted,'' hosted by John Walsh, the longest running perp walk in television history, would no longer be regularly broadcast on Fox. With the future of Mr. Walsh's hunt for bad guys uncertain, who will speak for the victims of crime?
Well, there's always Nancy Grace.
Every night on HLN, CNN's supposedly softer side, Ms. Grace sprays lightning bolts in all directions -- at her guests, the law, and most often, the accused. Since her show began in 2005, the presumption of innocence has found a willful enemy in the former prosecutor turned broadcast judge-and-jury. 
Shows like ''Nancy Grace'' and ''America's Most Wanted'' -- along with ''Cops,'' and all the prison reality shows and Court TV re-enacts -- may serve as a window on crime, but the fundamental appeal is more primal. Crime shows are the adult version of the scary stories we were told as children, the ones about the unseen Gollum who sweeps out of nowhere and devours the lives of unsuspecting people.
I have no issue with true crime, as long as it is true. Ms. Grace, a former prosecutor in Atlanta who was reprimanded for stepping over a line more than once, obliterates lines every night on ''Nancy Grace.'' Working with a contingent of experts who have all the independence of a crew of trained seals, Ms. Grace races toward judgment, heedlessly ignoring nuance and evidence on her way to finding guilt.
Ms. Grace knows what she knows with a great deal of certainty, but she was wrong about the now debunked rape charges against the Duke lacrosse team, she was wrong about who kidnapped Elizabeth Smart. She taped a corrosive interview in 2006 with Melinda Duckett, whose 2-year-old son had gone missing, and Ms. Duckett killed herself the next day. Ms. Grace broadcast the interview anyway.
Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington University and a frequent television talking head on legal matters, says she practices a hybrid of journalism and law that manages to be neither.
''I think she has managed to demean both professions with her hype, rabid persona, and sensational analysis,'' Professor Turley said. ''Some part of the public takes her seriously, and her show erodes the respect for basic rights.''
She has her fans. Ernie Allen, the president of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, is upset about the apparent passing of ''America's Most Wanted'' and sees Ms. Grace as one of the last people standing up for victims.
''What Nancy Grace does so well is tell the story from the perspective of the victims,'' he said. ''Her show is a way for the broad dissemination of information about the victims of crime.''
Like Mr. Walsh and Dominick Dunne, Ms. Grace came by her victimhood honestly when her fiance, Keith Griffin, was killed when she was just 19. In her book ''Objection,'' Ms. Grace suggested that a stranger with a criminal record shot Mr. Griffin outside a convenience store, was arrested and denied any involvement. By her recollection, she had to sit through three days of agonizing deliberation and then the prosecutor asked her if the defendant should be given the death penalty. She said no, she had no stomach for it.
The New York Observer fact-checked her written account and discovered that Mr. Griffin was killed by a former co-worker with no criminal record who confessed to the crime immediately. At trial, he was convicted within hours and the prosecution did in fact ask for the death penalty, but was denied. Ms. Grace explained the variance by telling The Observer, ''I have tried not to think about it.''
So what if she got a few details wrong? The love of her life died when she was at a young age. And she's been dealing payback ever since.
It can be a successful line of work. (Indeed, Beth Holloway, mother of Natalee, the young girl whose disappearance six years ago became a cable-television and ''Nancy Grace'' mainstay, now has a Lifetime show called ''Vanished with Beth Holloway.'') But there are some signs that crime doesn't pay as it once did.
Two years ago, ''Nancy Grace'' had an average audience of 943,000 viewers, which has now drifted down to 583,000 in the current year, according to the Nielsen Company. HLN is having it both ways, signing Ms. Grace to a new multiyear deal at the beginning of the year after she flirted with Fox Business Network, but hedging its bets by introducing ''The Joy Behar Show'' and ''Dr. Drew'' to the lineup and eliminating Ms. Grace's 10 p.m. repeat.
But as the cancellation of ''America's Most Wanted'' suggests, the interest in the scary unknown isn't as high as the interest in what is actually scary and known. It's worth remembering that in the past two elections, there was no fear-mongering Willie Horton moment, no effort to suggest that the big threat to citizens' well-being was some unknown guy with a knife.
Other real calamities -- economic, domestic terrorism, natural disasters -- seem to have taken over that part of the cultural subcortex where fear is stored.
And it may be why Ms. Grace has focused so much on threats closer to home. The menacing stranger has been supplanted with the murderer inside the house. Ms. Grace's current obsession is Casey Anthony, a jobless, aimless single mother in Florida who is accused of murdering her 2-year-old daughter Caylee in 2008 while partying her life away.
Jury selection got under way last week and Ms. Grace took her show to Clearwater, Fla., the better to hurl invective from a close, intimate distance at the woman whom Ms. Grace has dubbed ''Tot Mom'' and to wonder why the media and courts don't focus more on victims like Caylee. ''Nothing about what she went through, nothing about the stench of death in that car, nothing about the torture before her death and her body out rotting in a field!''
There were slow motion roams over the smiling face of Caylee contrasted with pictures of the evil Tot Mom, dancing with her friends in skimpy outfits. On Thursday night, there were also some loving shots of the electric chair. If only we could put the sum of all our fears in that chair and throw a switch to make them go away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); JURY TRIALS (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); MISSING PERSONS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); LACROSSE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



731 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Banks Amass Glut of Homes, Chilling Sales

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
EL MIRAGE, Ariz. -- The nation's biggest banks and mortgage lenders have steadily amassed real estate empires, acquiring a glut of foreclosed homes that threatens to deepen the housing slump and create a further drag on the economic recovery.
All told, they own more than 872,000 homes as a result of the groundswell in foreclosures, almost twice as many as when the financial crisis began in 2007, according to RealtyTrac, a real estate data provider. In addition, they are in the process of foreclosing on an additional one million homes and are poised to take possession of several million more in the years ahead.
Five years after the housing market started teetering, economists now worry that the rise in lender-owned homes could create another vicious circle, in which the growing inventory of distressed property further depresses home values and leads to even more distressed sales. With the spring home-selling season under way, real estate prices have been declining across the country in recent months.
''It remains a heavy weight on the banking system,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Moody's Analytics. ''Housing prices are falling, and they are going to fall some more.'' 
Over all, economists project that it would take about three years for lenders to sell their backlog of foreclosed homes. As a result, home values nationally could fall 5 percent by the end of 2011, according to Moody's, and rise only modestly over the following year. Regions that were hardest hit by the housing collapse and recession could take even longer to recover -- dealing yet another blow to a still-struggling economy.
Although sales have picked up a bit in the last few weeks, banks and other lenders remain overwhelmed by the wave of foreclosures. In Atlanta, lenders are repossessing eight homes for each distressed home they sell, according to March data from RealtyTrac. In Minneapolis, they are bringing in at least six foreclosed homes for each they sell, and in once-hot markets like Chicago and Miami, the ratio still hovers close to two to one.
Before the housing implosion, the inflow and outflow figures were typically one-to-one.
The reasons for the backlog include inadequate staffs and delays imposed by the lenders because of investigations into foreclosure practices. The pileup could lead to $40 billion in additional losses for banks and other lenders as they sell houses at steep discounts over the next two years, according to Trepp, a real estate research firm.
''These shops are under siege; it's just a tsunami of stuff coming in,'' said Taj Bindra, who oversaw Washington Mutual's servicing unit from 2004 to 2006 and now advises financial institutions on risk management. ''Lenders have a strong incentive to clear out inventory in a controlled and timely manner, but if you had problems on the front end of the foreclosure process, it should be no surprise you are having problems on the back end.''
A drive through the sprawling subdivisions outside Phoenix shows the ravages of the real estate collapse. Here in this working-class neighborhood of El Mirage, northwest of Phoenix, rows of small stucco homes sprouted up during the boom. Now block after block is pockmarked by properties with overgrown shrubs, weeds and foreclosure notices tacked to the doors. About 116 lender-owned homes are on the market or under contract in El Mirage, according to local real estate listings.
But that's just a small fraction of what is to come. An additional 491 houses are either sitting in the lenders' inventory or are in the foreclosure process. On average, homes in El Mirage sell for $65,300, down 75 percent from the height of the boom in July 2006, according to the Cromford Report, a Phoenix-area real estate data provider. Real estate agents and market analysts say those ultra-cheap prices have recently started attracting first-time buyers as well as investors looking for several properties at once.
Lenders have also been more willing to let distressed borrowers sidestep foreclosure by selling homes for a loss. That has accelerated the pace of sales in the area and even caused prices to slowly rise in the last two months, but realty agents worry about all the distressed homes that are coming down the pike.
''My biggest fear right now is that the supply has been artificially restricted,'' said Jayson Meyerovitz, a local broker. ''They can't just sit there forever. If so many houses hit the market, what is going to happen then?''
The major lenders say they are not deliberately holding back any foreclosed homes. They say that a long sales process can stigmatize a property and ratchet up maintenance and other costs. But they also do not want to unload properties in a fire sale.
''If we are out there undercutting prices, we are contributing to the downward spiral in market values,'' said Eric Will, who oversees distressed home sales for Freddie Mac. ''We want to make sure we are helping stabilize communities.''
The biggest reason for the backlog is that it takes longer to sell foreclosed homes, currently an average of 176 days -- and that's after the 400 days it takes for lenders to foreclose. After drawing government scrutiny over improper foreclosures practices last fall, many big lenders have slowed their operations in order to check the paperwork, and in two dozen or so states they halted them for months.
Conscious of their image, many lenders have recently started telling real estate agents to be more lenient to renters who happen to live in a foreclosed home and give them extra time to move out before changing the locks.
''Wells Fargo has sent me back knocking on doors two or three times, offering to give renters money if they cooperate with us,'' said Claude A. Worrell, a longtime real estate agent from Minneapolis who specializes in selling bank-owned property. ''It's a lot different than it used to be.''
Realty agents and buyers say the lenders are simply overwhelmed. Just as lenders were ill-prepared to handle the flood of foreclosures, they do not have the staff and infrastructure to manage and sell this much property.
Most of the major lenders outsourced almost every part of the process, be it sales or repairs. Some agents complain that lender-owned home listings are routinely out of date, that properties are overpriced by as much as 10 percent, and that lenders take days or longer to accept an offer.
The silver lining for home lenders, however, is that the number of new foreclosures and recent borrowers falling behind on their payments by three months or longer is shrinking.
''If they are able to manage through the next 12 to 18 months,'' said Mr. Zandi, the Moody's Analytics economist, ''they will be in really good shape.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jayson Meyerovitz, a broker in the Phoenix area, is concerned about bank-owned foreclosures: ''If so many houses hit the market, what is going to happen then?'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) CHARTS: A Backlog in the Housing Market: Banks and other lenders, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, hold 872,000 homes and are in the process of seizing a million more from troubled borrowers. At current sales rates, it will take lenders more than three years to sell those homes. (Sources: RealtyTrac
 S. & P./Case-Shiller (change in prices)) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REPOSSESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



732 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Burdened by PBS Dues, Stations Consider Withdrawing

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH JENSEN

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. -- Television executives who gathered here last week for PBS's annual meeting enthusiastically embraced projects such as the five-part ''Women, War and Peace'' and heard the actress Anna Deavere Smith speak so passionately of PBS's role in bringing the arts to Americans that Paula Kerger, PBS's president and chief executive, teared up.
But while Ms. Smith's keynote address and the gloriously sunny skies contributed to an overall atmosphere of enthusiasm among member station representatives, some executives did not see much of the nice weather. They were holed up trying to fashion a plan to keep public television programming on the air in Orlando after June 30, when WMFE -- the city's major public broadcaster -- ends its contract with PBS. The station is being taken over by the founders of a religious programmer, Daystar Television.
WMFE announced in April that it was selling its TV station (it will keep an NPR-affiliated public radio station) because it was unable to pay its PBS dues of just under $1 million annually. Jose A. Fajardo, the station's president, said that the public television model was no longer viable because of decreased donations, including a 34 percent drop in pledge contributions from viewers. 
And WMFE is not alone. In this financially troubled time, some PBS stations are questioning whether they can continue to find a way to make the PBS business model work.
In Los Angeles, KCET, a PBS station for four decades, quit PBS on Jan. 1, and went independent, citing PBS dues. Unlike in Orlando, a much smaller nearby PBS station quickly stepped up to continue providing PBS programming to the Los Angeles area.
This year, PBS narrowly averted another major loss in Chicago, where the board of WTTW-TV told management to examine the question of withdrawing as well. ''Our board, they are smart business people, and when they look at our business model they scratch their heads and they say this is upside down from a business standpoint,'' said Dan Schmidt, WTTW's president and chief executive.
In Chicago, as in Los Angeles and Orlando, one crucial issue is that there are simply too many places to see PBS programs; each of those cities has more than one PBS station. The biggest station pays the highest amount of PBS dues and gets rights to all of PBS's marquee shows, like ''Masterpiece Theater'' and ''PBS NewsHour''; smaller stations pay less but can still broadcast some of the most popular shows, as long as they wait eight days.
''Others pay pennies on the dollar and run the cream of the crop,'' said Mr. Schmidt, whose station had a $4.2 million operating deficit last year. His station pays $4.5 million a year in PBS dues, and yet ''viewers can see that content on other stations and increasingly, whenever they want to on PBS.org,'' Mr. Schmidt said.
WTTW decided to stay in the fold -- for now. Leaving, Mr. Schmidt said, ''was on the table along with everything else, but at this point we are committed to making this work.''
What no one knows is how many other stations are contemplating quitting. The PBS station in Waco, Tex., shut down last year for financial reasons, and there are murmurs of half a dozen more stations, at least -- no one will name them on the record -- that are on the fence and could leave depending on whether state and federal financing fall through.
''I don't think this is necessarily going to be limited to these two stations,'' Orlando and Los Angeles, said Steve Bass, president and chief executive of Oregon Public Broadcasting.
PBS is retooling its dues formula, which may help some big stations and will also require each market's secondary stations to pay more. Ms. Kerger said that she did not foresee other stations dropping out, but that over the next several years she expected the difficult economy would force more consolidation among stations.
In the New York City area, WNET-TV is among those bidding to take over NJN in New Jersey, which is losing its state financing in coming weeks. Ultimately, she said, if consolidation leads to ''fewer stations but stronger stations, that ends up being healthy for the system.''
But each station that leaves also means less money for PBS to put toward its programs; PBS's programming budget is dropping by $5 million in fiscal 2012 to $202 million, according to the trade publication Current, partly because of losing KCET dues.
More public television programming creativity may be needed, said Mr. Bass. ''We've had this issue of overlap in public television for years,'' he said. In contrast to public radio, he said, where competing stations in the same city have figured out different programming models, ''in public television we really only have one format.''
In Orlando, PBS is scrambling to find another outlet, or more likely, a consortium of outlets.
Optimism at the start of the annual meeting proved unfounded, and by Friday no solution emerged. With the deadline looming, some temporary fixes have been discussed, including providing the shows for cable viewers only. Ms. Kerger said in an interview that ''we're committed to trying to deliver over-the-air service in this market'' come July 1.
In an interview at the WMFE offices -- conspicuously lacking any receptionist -- Mr. Fajardo defended selling the PBS station, despite community outcry. More than 500 complaints, some from out of state, have been registered with the Federal Communications Commission, which must approve the sale.
''I strongly believe that there is a role that PBS should be playing in this country,'' Mr. Fajardo said. But for WMFE, which splits the area's audience with smaller stations in Daytona and Cocoa, he said, ''it was very apparent that the sustainability was not there for us.''
The competitors ''dilute the brand for us,'' he said. Mr. Fajardo said they explored a merger, but decided that would not solve the fund-raising problems at a time of dwindling viewer support.
One major problem, he said, is that as a member organization, PBS ''is master to a lot of different types of stations'' each with different priorities: ''It's herding feral cats.''
The system can survive, Mr. Fajardo said, but ''it's going to take a complete out-of-the-box idea, and individuals, stations, general managers, community leaders, members of Congress are going to have to accept the fact that there's going to be some sacrificial lambs.
''And that,'' he said, ''could mean closing some stations so that the system can survive, changing policies so the system can survive, moving dollars around so the system can survive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paula Kerger, the chief executive of PBS, says she expects the economy to force some consolidation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKE LANDIS)
 Jose A. Fajardo of WMFE in Orlando, Fla., which is ending its contract with PBS. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (92%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (92%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (75%); PUBLIC RADIO (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



733 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: After a Century and a Half, Marking Rebels' Graves

BYLINE: By STEPHEN REX BROWN

 BODY:
Robert Selden Garnett, the first general killed in the Civil War, was buried in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, but his family did not want visitors to the cemetery to know it.
Named brigadier general in 1861, Garnett briefly commanded Confederate troops in western Virginia before being shot dead in the battle of Corrick's Ford on July 13, 1861.
According to research by the cemetery, one of his last cries on the battlefield was ''Three cheers for Jeff Davis!'' 
But that Confederate pride did not follow Garnett to the grave.
Union forces turned over Garnett's body to his family, who buried him in Baltimore. Four years later, the family decided he should lie in Brooklyn alongside his wife and son, who had died before the war. They exhumed Garnett's remains and secretly re-interred him in Green-Wood, leaving his grave unmarked for fear of anti-Southern sentiments.
Earlier this month, and 150 years after his death, Garnett finally received a headstone at the historic cemetery, as a result of the painstaking research of volunteers. He is one of 75 soldiers of the Confederate army whose remains have been discovered in Green-Wood by the researchers, who have been sorting through records since 2002.
So far, Jeffrey I. Richman, the historian of Green-Wood Cemetery, has documented 4,600 people who fought in the war, nearly half of them in unmarked graves.
But the Confederate veterans who were laid to rest far north of the Mason-Dixon line, with no acknowledgment of their service etched in stone, particularly intrigued Mr. Richman.
''It seems a number of them had economic ties to New York before the war,'' he said. ''Some of the Confederate officers were looking for economic opportunities and came up.''
Gilbert Elliott, a shipbuilder and first lieutenant from North Carolina, was one of those Southern sympathizers who settled in the heart of Yankee territory.
At 19, Elliott commanded a Confederate crew in North Carolina who built the Albermarle, a 152-foot ironclad warship that tormented Union forces for much of 1864. Mr. Richman said the research showed that Elliott, like many of the other Confederate veterans found in the cemetery, spent his final years living around New York, associating with his former battlefield foes.
''They were going to dinners with the Union guys, hoist a few for old times' sake,'' Mr. Richman said. ''They'd go to reunions together - they weren't hostile to each other.''
Mr. Richman's research began as a casual project among Civil War buffs in 2002 to identify the graves of about 200 veterans buried at the cemetery. But the historians quickly ventured deeper into archives, requiring the efforts of volunteers from as far away as California and Florida.
The team discovered 2,000 graves that were missing, unmarked or severely damaged, and obtained gravestones for them from the federal Department of Veterans Affairs. Calls and e-mails from descendants of Civil War veterans searching for relatives' remains are received almost every day.
''We joke that our Civil War project has lasted more than twice as long as the Civil War itself,'' Mr. Richman said. ''And we're still going.''
Not surprisingly, Mr. Richman has noticed a surge in interest in the cemetery's research coinciding with the 150th anniversary of the Civil War. The sesquicentennial will be commemorated at Green-Wood on Memorial Day weekend with a candlelight procession led by Civil War re-enactors on horseback, musket salutes and music.
But the research is far from over. By Mr. Richman's estimate, more than 3,000 unrecognized veterans' graves may still be in the cemetery, home to about 600,000 souls.
''With the price they paid, the least we can do is recognize their service to their country, and make sure they have a gravestone that shows where they lay,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Confederate general's grave at Green-Wood Cemetery was unmarked until recently. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY I. RICHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CEMETERIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); HISTORY (89%); ARMIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); SHIPBUILDING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



734 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: The Self-Rationing of Medical Care

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Health Insurers Profit as Many Postpone Care'' (front page, May 14):
How more scathing an indictment could there be of the insurance industry's commodification of the nation's health? In a faltering economy, the health insurers have rung up record profits, rewarded shareholders with new dividends and are demanding double-digit premium increases for fear of possible higher costs.
Is health a commodity to be sold for profit, for bonuses and dividends, or is our nation's health a responsibility of our government? Can we not now, or ever, see the need to replace this needless, costly, money-sucking, claim-denying middleman, this so-called health insurance industry, with a single-payer government-administered system? 
HERBERT BENGELSDORF Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., May 14, 2011
The writer is a retired psychiatrist.
To the Editor:
You report that ''major health insurers are barreling into a third year of record profits.'' A major reason: use is down among their policyholders, and therefore care providers are submitting fewer bills than expected. Policyholders did not suddenly become healthier, however. Rather, the cost-sharing required by the policies they can afford has become too burdensome. So they deny themselves beneficial care.
Research shows that patients have trouble differentiating between services they really need and those they can safely avoid. As a result, many become sicker unnecessarily and require services they would not have needed if they had taken care of the condition before it became too serious to ignore. And when that happens, the insurer -- as well as the system -- spends more than it would have otherwise.
Surely, we should not reward the insurers responsible for this situation with the double-digit rate increases they are seeking.
STEPHEN M. DAVIDSON Boston, May 16, 2011
The writer is a professor at the Boston University School of Management and the author of ''Still Broken: Understanding the U.S. Health Care System.''
To the Editor:
I am a retired pediatrician who has AARP's health care option through UnitedHealthcare as my supplementary insurance for Medicare. This year, the premium has risen to $6,000 for me and my husband, an internist. It seems quite obvious that a universal health care plan sponsored by the government (Medicare for all) would not be profit-driven and in the long run would lower medical costs. We would be willing to pay higher taxes for this.
It is truly immoral that about 50 million people are uninsured. Despite all our medical expertise, we have among the poorest outcomes in the developed world. Incidentally, we are among the lowest taxed of those nations that enjoy better outcomes.
I read recently in this newspaper that Medicare runs a 2 to 6 percent overhead compared with the average managed-care companies of 12 percent. It seems wrong that insurance companies are middlemen making a handsome profit on a vital service that could well be done (and has been) without them.
The insurance companies must have a powerful lobby and influence in Washington. Something is very rotten, not in Denmark, but right here in the U.S.A.
NANCY SHEVELL SCIALES Flushing, Queens, May 15, 2011
To the Editor:
As chief medical officer at Aetna, I -- along with the entire clinical staff -- am focused on making certain that Aetna members get access to the care they need, when they need it.
Use of health services remains lower than expected. The question we are often asked is whether use will return to previous levels. At Aetna, we believe that people will more than likely increase their use of health care over time. Meanwhile, our primary concern is making certain people don't forgo needed care and become sicker by the time they return to the health system.
We have invested heavily in technology and care management programs to encourage members to get preventive care, see their doctors regularly, and take needed medicines to stay healthy. We also identify potential gaps in care and notify both the physician and our members so that action can be taken to prevent complications and adverse events.
LONNY REISMAN Hartford, May 18, 2011
To the Editor:
Acknowledging lower use of health insurance benefits by enrollees as a result of higher premiums, deductibles and co-pays, insurance companies, you report, ''continue to press for higher premiums, even though their reserve coffers are flush with profits and shareholders have been rewarded with new dividends.''
Is this not rationing? It is dollar, not health resource, rationing, however: preserving profit flow at the expense of timely medical care.
This form of rationing does not address costs per se, because deductibles apply across the board (as opposed to exempting basic preventive or chronic health maintenance care, which would encourage judicious use of resources), and ensures, ultimately, higher mortality per enrollee through delayed diagnosis. Where are the cries of ''death panels''?
DAY HILLS Seattle, May 16, 2011
The writer is an oncologist.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEITH NEGLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); WRITERS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH CARE RATIONING (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



735 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Economic Crisis Unfurls In Hushed Suspense

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KINSLEY. 
Michael Kinsley is a senior editorial adviser for Bloomberg View, a new opinion section of Bloomberg News.

 BODY:
It can't be easy to create a financial thriller. There's no blood, there are (usually) no bodies. How do you create excitement when most of the action consists of middle-aged white men in conservative suits talking on the phone, and the closest thing to a car chase is a stately procession of big black Town Cars? How often can you show people peering at spreadsheets and recoiling in alarm? What do you do when the scandal itself might as well be labeled ''Too Complicated to Understand''? The HBO film ''Too Big to Fail,'' based on the book of the same name by the reporter Andrew Ross Sorkin of The New York Times, about the financial crisis of 2008, uses every cinematic trick in the book, but ultimately succeeds because we know that the danger was real. 
One way to create an atmosphere of crisis is simply to have your characters assert that it's a crisis. In ''Too Big to Fail,'' directed by Curtis Hanson (''L.A. Confidential''), people are always saying things like, ''If we don't do this now, we won't have an economy on Monday.'' There's also a lot of staring soulfully through windows or into mirrors. The hero of Mr. Sorkin's version of events, Treasury secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., played by William Hurt, indicates the terrible stress he's under by talking ever-more softly. The Federal Reserve chairman Ben S. Bernanke, played by Paul Giamatti, does the same. As things get worse, the conversation at their weekly breakfast meetings degenerates into a low rumble.
This being HBO, there is a lot of potty mouth, which is another easy adrenaline inducer. It's hardly surprising to hear James Woods screaming obscenities in a movie, but a bit more surprising to hear them pouring from the mouth of the character he plays, Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chief executive of Lehman Brothers. Even Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, looking even more angelic as played by Billy Crudup than he looks in real life, flings around the vulgarities with abandon. That is how big a crisis it was.
Mr. Sorkin's take on the story is the conventional one. That doesn't make it wrong. Presidents back to Reagan overderegulated the financial industry. Borrowing became too easy, especially for houses. People got in over their heads. When they couldn't pay back their debts, they dragged the banks (and one insurance company, A.I.G.) down with them. Finally, too late for Lehman Brothers, the government stepped in to save the banks, and the economy, from collapsing. The movie reminds us that President George W. Bush needed Democratic votes to get the necessary legislation passed, because Republicans were already demagoguing it. And ''Too Big to Fail'' makes clear that, in Mr. Sorkin's view, doing nothing would have been catastrophic. The movie is heavy on the idea that saving the troubled banks required merging them with healthy banks, thus creating new institutions that are even bigger than the ones that the government rescued because they were too big (to be allowed) to fail.
This version of events is largely correct, I think, and the movie tells it with exemplary clarity. I've never come closer than the two minutes after watching ''Too Big to Fail'' to understanding what a ''credit default swap'' is (except possibly for an hour or so after reading Michael Lewis's ''Big Short''). The exposition can be heavy-handed. When Cynthia Nixon of ''Sex and the City,'' here playing the Treasury Department's head of public affairs, asks, ''What should I tell the press?,'' the movie stops for several minutes so that all the men in the room can explain things to the only woman (and to us).
''Too Big to Fail'' uses all the familiar ''Law & Order'' techniques for creating a sense of urgency on the cheap. People never seem to just sit at their desks while talking on the phone. Instead, they stride purposefully down long corridors, surrounded by a cloud of aides, barking into their BlackBerrys. And as soon as the current plot development has been taken care of, they just snap the phone shut without saying goodbye. Rude! But message conveyed: This is a crisis. There is no time for niceties.
Obnoxious, thumping music in the background can create tension and suspense, no matter how banal what's going on in the foreground may be. The ''Airplane'' movies mocked this convention hilariously. In ''Too Big to Fail'' the hilarity is unintended, but genuine. The music behind a standard helicopter shot of Lower Manhattan leads you to expect another Sept. 11, but all you get is more men in suits, more meetings, more black Town Cars.
Part of the fun of ''Too Big to Fail'' is trying to recognize the famous people from Hollywood who are impersonating somewhat less famous people from Washington and Wall Street. Besides those already mentioned, there is Ed Asner as Warren E. Buffett; Tony Shalhoub as John J. Mack, chief executive of Morgan Stanley; and Evan Handler (also of ''Sex and the City'') as Goldman Sachs's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein.
Bill Pullman is in a lot of movies and rarely seems to get the girl. Here, though, playing the suave Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, he is the closest thing to a romantic lead in a story with virtually no women. He doesn't get the girl, because there is no girl to get. But even before the movie starts, he gets the securities firm Bear Stearns, with a big government subsidy, and by movie's end he is being begged to accept more taxpayer money to take over a bank or two.
Speaking, I think, for the HBO-watching public, I would have liked to see a torrid affair between Mr. Dimon and the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde. Played by Laila Robins, she has only a brief cameo, berating Hank Paulson for allowing Lehman to go under. But it's one of the highlights of the film when she calls him Honk. I suppose that an affair in the movie was out of the question because (as far as we know) it never happened in real life. It will be a happy moment when petty distinctions like this, between fantasies and real life, disappear for good. We've pretty much done it in Washington. Why is Hollywood so far behind?
TOO BIG TO FAIL
HBO, Monday night at 9, Eastern and Pacific time; 8, Central time.
Presented by HBO Films. Produced by Spring Creek Productions and Deuce Three Productions. Directed by Curtis Hanson ; written by Peter Gould, based on the book ''Too Big to Fail'' by Andrew Ross Sorkin; Mr. Hanson, Paula Weinstein and Jeffrey Levine, executive producers; Carol Fenelon, co-executive producer; Ezra Swerdlow, producer; Mr. Gould and Mr. Sorkin, co-producers; Bethany McLean and Joe Nocera, consultants.
WITH: William Hurt (Henry M. Paulson Jr.), Ed Asner (Warren E. Buffett), Billy Crudup (Timothy F. Geithner), Paul Giamatti (Ben S. Bernanke), Topher Grace (Jim Wilkinson), Matthew Modine (John Thain), Cynthia Nixon (Michele Davis), Michael O'Keefe (Chris Flowers), Bill Pullman (Jamie Dimon), Tony Shalhoub (John J. Mack), Evan Handler (Lloyd C. Blankfein), Laila Robins (Christine Lagarde) and James Woods (Richard S. Fuld Jr.).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Too Big to Fail, a film on HBO based on a book by Andrew Ross Sorkin, features Topher Grace, left, and William Hurt. (C1)
 Billy Crudup in the movie, directed by Curtis Hanson. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MACALL B. POLAY/HBO) (C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); LEGISLATION (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); RICHARD S FULD (50%); BEN BERNANKE (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Too Big to Fail (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



736 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHANGES IN THE AIR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: A City Prepares for a Warm Long-Term Forecast

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- The Windy City is preparing for a heat wave -- a permanent one.
Climate scientists have told city planners that based on current trends, Chicago will feel more like Baton Rouge than a Northern metropolis before the end of this century.
So, Chicago is getting ready for a wetter, steamier future. Public alleyways are being repaved with materials that are permeable to water. The white oak, the state tree of Illinois, has been banned from city planting lists, and swamp oaks and sweet gum trees from the South have been given new priority. Thermal radar is being used to map the city's hottest spots, which are then targets for pavement removal and the addition of vegetation to roofs. And air-conditioners are being considered for all 750 public schools, which until now have been heated but rarely cooled.
''Cities adapt or they go away,'' said Aaron N. Durnbaugh, deputy commissioner of Chicago's Department of Environment. ''Climate change is happening in both real and dramatic ways, but also in slow, pervasive ways. We can handle it, but we do need to acknowledge it. We are on a 50-year cycle, but we need to get going.'' 
Across America and in Congress, the very existence of climate change continues to be challenged -- especially by conservatives. The skeptics are supported by constituents wary of science and concerned about the economic impacts of stronger regulation. Yet even as the debate rages on, city and state planners are beginning to prepare.
The precise consequences of the increase of man-made greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are hard to determine, but scientists are predicting significant sea level rise; more extreme weather events like storms, tornadoes and blizzards; and, of course, much more heat. New York City, which is doing its own adaptation planning, is worried about flooding from the rising ocean. The Navy has a task force on climate change that says it should be preparing to police the equivalent of an extra sea as the Arctic ice melts.
Some of these events will occur in the near-enough term that local governments are under pressure to act. Insurance companies are applying pressure in high-risk areas, essentially saying adapt or pay higher premiums -- especially in urban and commercial areas.
The reinsurance giant Swiss Re, for example, has said that if the shore communities of four Gulf Coast states choose not to implement adaptation strategies, they could see annual climate-change related damages jump 65 percent a year to $23 billion by 2030.
''Society needs to reduce its vulnerability to climate risks, and as long as they remain manageable, they remain insurable, which is our interest as well,'' said Mark D. Way, head of Swiss Re's sustainable development for the Americas.
Melissa Stults, the climate director for ICLEI USA, an association of local governments, said that many of the administrations she was dealing with were following a strategy of ''discreetly integrating preparedness into traditional planning efforts.''
Second City First
Chicago is often called the Second City, but it is way out in front of most in terms of adaptation.
The effort began in 2006, under the mayor at the time, Richard M. Daley. He said he was inspired in part by the Kyoto international treaty for reducing carbon emissions, which took effect in 2005, and also by an aspiration to raise Chicago's profile as an environmentally friendly town.
As a first step, the city wanted to model how global warming might play out locally. Foundations, eager to get local governments moving, put up some money.
''There was real assumption that Chicago could be a model for other places,'' said Adele Simmons, president of Global Philanthropy Partnership, a nonprofit group based in Chicago that helped bring in $700,000 at the early stages.
Climatologists took into account a century's worth of historical observations of daily temperatures and precipitation from 15 Chicago-area weather stations as well as the effect of Lake Michigan in moderating extreme heat and cold to come up with a range of possibilities based on a higher and lower range of worldwide carbon emissions.
The forecasts, while not out of line with global predictions, shocked city planners.
If world carbon emissions continued apace, the scientists said, Chicago would have summers like the Deep South, with as many as 72 days over 90 degrees before the end of the century. For most of the 20th century, the city averaged fewer than 15.
By 2070, Chicago could expect 35 percent more precipitation in winter and spring, but 20 percent less in summer and fall. By then, the conditions would have changed enough to make the area's plant hardiness zone akin to Birmingham, Ala.
But what would that mean in real-life consequences? A private risk assessment firm was hired, and the resulting report read like an urban disaster film minus Godzilla.
The city could see heat-related deaths reaching 1,200 a year. The increasing occurrences of freezes and thaws (the root of potholes) would cause billions of dollars' worth of deterioration to building facades, bridges and roads. Termites, never previously able to withstand Chicago's winters, would start gorging on wooden frames.
Armed with the forecasts, the city prioritized which adaptations would save the most money and would be the most feasible in the light of tight budgets and public skepticism.
''We put each of the priorities through a lens of political, economic and technical,'' said Suzanne Malec-McKenna, the commissioner of Chicago's Department of Environment. ''What is it, if you will, that will pass the laugh test?''
Among the ideas rejected, Ms. Malec-McKenna said, were plans to immediately shut down local coal-powered energy plants -- too much cost for too little payback.
For actions the city felt were necessary but not affordable, it got help again from a local institution, the Civic Consulting Alliance, a nonprofit organization that builds pro bono teams of business experts. In this case, the alliance convinced consulting firms to donate $14 million worth of hours to projects like designing an electric car infrastructure and planning how to move the city toward zero waste.
Mr. Daley embraced the project. He convened 20 city departments in 2010 and told them to weigh their planning dollars against the changes experts were predicting. The department heads continued to meet quarterly, and members of Mayor Rahm Emanuel's administration have said he is committed to moving the goals of the plan forward, albeit with an added emphasis on ''projects that accelerate jobs and economic development.''
Updating Infrastructure
Much of Chicago's adaptation work is about transforming paved spaces. ''Cities are hard spaces that trap water and heat,'' said Janet L. Attarian, a director of streetscapes at the city's Department of Transportation. ''Alleys and streets account for 25 percent of groundcover, and closer to 40 percent when parking lots are included.''
The city's 13,000 concrete alleyways were originally built without drainage and are a nightmare every time it rains. Storm water pours off the hard surfaces and routinely floods basements and renders low-lying roads and underpasses unusable.
To make matters worse, many of the pipes that handle storm overflow also handle raw sewage. After a very heavy rain, if overflow pipes become congested, sewage backs up into basements or is released with the rainwater into the Chicago River -- an emergency response that has attracted the scrutiny of the Environmental Protection Agency.
As the region warms, Chicago is expecting more frequent and extreme storms. In the last three years, the city has had two intense storms classified as 100-year events.
So the work planned for a six-point intersection on the South Side with flooding and other issues is a prototype. The sidewalk in front of the high school on Cermak Road has been widened to include planting areas that are lower than the street surface. This not only encourages more pedestrian traffic, but also provides shade and landscaping. These will be filled with drought-resistant plants like butterfly weed and spartina grasses that sponge up excess water and help filter pollutants like de-icing salts. In some places, unabsorbed water will seep into storage tanks beneath the streets so it can be used later for watering plants or in new decorative fountains in front of the high school.
The bike lanes and parking spaces being added along the street are covered with permeable pavers, a weave of pavement that allows 80 percent of rainwater to filter through it to the ground below. Already 150 alleyways have been remade in this way.
The light-reflecting pavement is Chicago's own mix and includes recycled tires. Rubbery additives help the asphalt expand in heat without buckling and to contract without cracking.
The new streets bring new challenges, of course. The permeable pavers have to be specially cleaned or they eventually become clogged with silt and lose effectiveness.
Still, the new construction is no more expensive than traditional costs, Ms. Attarian said. Transforming one alleyway costs about $150,000. But now, she said, ''We can put a fire hose on it full blast and the water seeps right in.''
Reconsidering the Trees
Awareness of climate change has filled Chicago city planners with deep concern for the trees.
Not only are they beautiful, said Ms. Malec-McKenna, herself trained as a horticulturalist, but their shade also provides immediate relief to urban heat islands. Trees improve air quality by absorbing carbon dioxide, and their leaves can keep 20 percent of an average rain from hitting the pavement.
Chicago spends over $10 million a year planting roughly 2,200 trees. From 1991 to 2008, the city added so many that officials estimate tree cover increased to 17.6 percent from 11 percent. The goal is to exceed 23 percent this decade.
The problem is that for trees to reach their expected lifespan -- up to 90 years -- they have to be able to endure hotter conditions. Chicago has already changed from one growing zone to another in the last 30 years, and it expects to change several times again by 2070.
Knowing this, planners asked experts at the city's botanical garden and Morton Arboretum to evaluate their planting list. They were told to remove six of the most common tree species.
Off came the ash trees that account for 17 percent of Chicago tree cover, or more than any other tree. Gone, too, are the enormous Norway maples, which provide the most amount of shade.
A warming climate will make them more susceptible to plagues like emerald ash disease. Already white oak, the state tree of Illinois, is on the decline and, like several species of conifer, is expected to be extinct from the region within decades.
So Chicago is turning to swamp white oaks and bald cypress. It is like the rest of adaptation strategy, Ms. Malec-McKenna explains: ''A constant ongoing process to make sure we are as resilient as we can be in facing the future.''
Changes in the Air: This is the first article in a series on strategies for adapting to climate change.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leroy Ledbetter tending a rooftop garden created to reduce energy use by Chicago's City Hall. (A1)
City planners in Chicago have been told that as temperatures rise, some plants native to the region will die out.
Some of the city's smaller adaptations include changing road and parking pavement to handle more storm runoff. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) GRAPHIC: Street of the Future: Much of Chicago's adaptation work is about transforming paved spaces, which in the form of alleys and streets account for 25 percent of the city's ground cover. (Sources: City of Chicago
 Wight & Company) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (91%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); WEATHER (90%); TRENDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REINSURANCE (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%); CONSERVATISM (65%)

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (63%)

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



737 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: A Move by City Opera Has Potential, as Well as Possible Pitfalls

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
After talking, fantasizing and plotting about it for years, New York City Opera is moving out of Lincoln Center. Immediately! Or so the company said on Friday in a stunning, if very sketchy, announcement from George Steel, the general manager and artistic director.
This news came after intense meetings between Mr. Steel and the board to deal with the struggling company's financial crisis and rake over the disappointing box-office receipts for the recently concluded season, Mr. Steel's second. Concerned supporters of the company were expecting news on Friday. But all they were hoping for was an announcement of next season's productions. Given the financial straits, it seemed possible that there would be no next season or that City Opera might even go under.
There will be a 2011-12 season, Mr. Steel asserted, though once again a limited one of just five full productions, including two smaller-scale operas in modest stagings. As to what works these will be and who will be singing them, let alone the pressing question of where they will be presented, all those details are to come, Mr. Steel said. 
I am all for City Opera's leaving Lincoln Center. During the 11 years that Paul Kellogg was in charge, he became convinced that the biggest problem facing City Opera was the house it played in, the New York State Theater, as it was then known.
With 2,600 seats, the theater was acoustically dull and just too big for City Opera's signature fare: theatrically innovative productions featuring younger, eager singers who looked like the characters they portrayed and took chances as actors. Worst of all, the looming presence of the Metropolitan Opera next door in Lincoln Center made it difficult for City Opera to shake off the perception that it was just a lesser Met.
Mr. Kellogg tried mightily to rally patrons, audiences and critics to the cause of finding City Opera a new home. A couple of times he seemed close to pulling it off. The obstacles proved impossible to overcome. Mr. Kellogg stepped aside in 2007 with a record of achievement but his dream unfulfilled.
Yet the news Mr. Steel delivered on Friday was not a triumphant declaration of independence. From his comments, he sounded determined, yes, but panicky and curiously regretful.
''We love Lincoln Center,'' he said in an interview with Daniel J. Wakin of The New York Times. It's a ''wonderful place,'' he added, but the ''fixed costs of living there are simply too high.''
If the board is serious about this move, Mr. Steel will have to project a clearer sense of purpose. Soon. Friday's announcement of the board's vote made it seem as if there were no alternative to leaving Lincoln Center; that finding a new place to perform was the only way to reduce the size of the company and tailor its mission to a new financial reality.
Mr. Steel will also have to deal with the understandable confusion of his supporters. Appointed in early 2009, he has been the most vocal booster of the $107 million renovation project of what is now the David H. Koch Theater. The improvements to the house are substantial; and the dreaded sound-enhancement system, installed on Mr. Kellogg's watch, is gone. Since the reopening in the fall of 2009, Mr. Steel has repeatedly called the place ''the best theater in New York.''
That said, every production he presented in his first two seasons would have come off better in a smaller house, preferably far from the Met, where City Opera could more clearly project its own identity and artistic approach.
Mr. Steel deserves more credit than he has received for his record as artistic director so far. When the board tapped him, Mr. Steel had won plaudits for his inspired stewardship of the Miller Theater at Columbia University. But his only real experience in opera was not encouraging: a short, shaky tenure as general manager of the Dallas Opera, which he left after 14 weeks to take the City Opera post.
Since arriving, he has brought energy and lots of ideas to City Opera and has been a tireless proselytizer for its work. Among the most exhilarating productions I have seen over the last two seasons in New York and around the world, I would include two that Mr. Steel presented.
The first was Christopher Alden's staging of Mozart's ''Don Giovanni'' in the 2009-10 season. Here was City Opera at its trademark best. Though there were no star singers, this mysterious, sexy and modern production had a young, winning cast that worked in sync like an ensemble of actors from an excellent repertory theater company.
Last fall Mr. Alden was back for a revelatory production of Bernstein's musically eclectic opera ''A Quiet Place,'' long considered problematic. Yet here, with a terrific cast, an imaginative director and a dynamic young conductor, this bleakly comic suburban family drama came across as Bernstein's most personal and affecting work.
There were also strongly cast revivals of two lively City Opera productions: Strauss's ''Intermezzo,'' a semiautobiographical story of a famous opera composer and his quarrelsome wife, performed in a zippy English translation; and Donizetti's popular ''Elisir d'Amore,'' directed by Jonathan Miller, who playfully situates the story in the American Southwest of the 1950s.
But in the spring Mr. Steel presented a pair of contemporary opera productions aimed, it seemed, at opposing camps of patrons.
The first, a project that best expressed Mr. Steel's trend-setting vision for the City Opera, was ''Monodramas,'' a triple bill of one-act monologues by John Zorn, Arnold Schoenberg and Morton Feldman. The pieces were visually linked in a surreal staging by the avant-garde theater artist Michael Counts. On opening night a good-size audience turned up, full of enthusiastic young people, a demographic much sought by arts institutions everywhere. But the house was padded, it turned out, with new-music insiders, and attendance for later performances dropped off.
The official season ended dismally, with the New York premiere of ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon,'' the hapless first opera by the hugely successful musical-theater composer and lyricist Stephen Schwartz (''Wicked'' and ''Godspell''). This work matches a sappy, cloying score to a creepy Hitchcockian story. With 10 performances, Mr. Steel was hoping to lure the Broadway crowd. Again, attendance was disappointing.
If ''Seance'' had been just one in a season of, say, 12 productions, Mr. Steel could have justified trying it out as a novelty. But the production took one of only five precious slots. And as much as I was riveted by ''Monodramas,'' that project represented another kind of risk. Not one of the three included monologues was an opera in any conventional sense. The 60-minute Feldman work, ''Neither,'' sets a plotless Beckett text. Mr. Zorn's short abstract piece has no words, just a vocal line for solo soprano singing all manner of ''ah'' sounds and vocal gymnastics.
Still, where were the audiences for the Strauss and Donizetti operas? And I would have thought City Opera could have found a way to make ''A Quiet Place'' seem an event not to be missed. Yet times change. Bernstein may not mean to new generations what he does to those of us nurtured on his Young People's Concerts at the New York Philharmonic.
Part of the problem has to be competition from the Met, which, under Peter Gelb, is buffing its populist image. City Opera, the ''people's opera,'' boasts that more than a quarter of its tickets are $25 or less. But tickets in the upper balconies at the Met (where the acoustics are excellent) are available for $25, and the company has a thriving $20 weekday rush ticket program. In a way, the Met's popular HD broadcasts to movie theaters worldwide have become the real ''people's opera.''
Getting out of Lincoln Center could be the answer for City Opera, as several of Mr. Steel's predecessors believed. And if desperation has compelled this move, which seems a little rash, that does not lessen its potential benefits.
Imagine if New York's second opera company had an inviting house of, say, 1,200 seats, a place that could set the cultural tone for its neighborhood, much the way the Public Theater defines the life of its East Village environs. For years City Opera has nurtured such a fantasy.
But the current reality, as described by Mr. Steel, is not so idealized. The company will have to rent office space, sign a contract with a theater large enough for the three major productions, then find modest spaces of 300 to 900 seats for its smaller-scale offerings. This nomadic lifestyle could dilute City Opera's identity, the very thing the company wants to enhance by leaving Lincoln Center.
What are its contractual obligations to Lincoln Center? Can this major relocation be enacted in a matter of months?
Details, Mr. Steel assures us, are forthcoming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Steel, City Opera's general manager and artistic director, has been trying to keep the group afloat. (C1)
Daniel Okulitch, center, as the title character, with Stefania Dovhan, in Christopher Alden's modern staging of Mozart's ''Don Giovanni'' for New York City Opera's 2009-10 season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Patricia Risley in City Opera's staging of Bernstein's musically eclectic ''A Quiet Place.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COST OF LIVING (71%); TICKET SALES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



738 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: CNBC Takes a Hollywood Turn

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Every few minutes in ''Too Big to Fail,'' the film about the darkest days of the financial crisis in 2008 that will have its premiere Monday on HBO, something happens that once seemed unbelievable. Banks collapse. Balance sheets crumble. Government officials plot extraordinary interventions to curb the free fall. 
And every few minutes, a news clip or a sound bite from CNBC pops up, seemingly as a reminder to the viewer that it all really happened in real time. In a sense, the news became an extra actor in the film.
In the movie, adapted from the book by Andrew Ross Sorkin of The New York Times, some of the news clips are exactly as heard or shown on CNBC as the crisis unfolded. But other scenes are amalgams of broadcasts from different times in the same week.
CNBC anchors and reporters reread, and in some cases, reshot some of their reports.
Erin Burnett, then a CNBC anchor, said she had ''something like five outfits'' for the reshoots and was ''done in less than half an hour.''
HBO, which is owned by Time Warner, struck a licensing deal with CNBC, which is controlled by Comcast's NBC Universal division, for the footage.
The film also uses footage from news programs on CNN, which, like HBO, is owned by Time Warner. But CNBC is still the sort of omnipresent narrator, giving a play-by-play about troubled banks and the federal response to the troubles.
Michelle Caruso-Cabrera and others from CNBC were among those at a film screening in New York last week. ''As it was happening we knew we were on the front lines of something historic, so it makes sense that HBO would use CNBC as the voice, but it was thrilling and gratifying to actually watch it,'' Ms. Caruso-Cabrera said in an e-mail.
The film also shows the role that CNBC played in funneling information between the government and Wall Street. In one pivotal scene, Henry Paulson, then the Treasury secretary, directs his staff to leak word that the government will not aid Lehman Brothers; in the next scene, Lehman executives direct their attention to the TV set as CNBC relays Mr. Paulson's sentiments.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (53%)

COMPANY: HOME BOX OFFICE INC (91%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



739 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Asia Society Appoints Two New Leaders

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
The balance of power between the United States and Asia has shifted dramatically since 1956, when John D. Rockefeller III founded the Asia Society to promote greater understanding of Asia in the United States. In response, the Asia Society is shifting its center of gravity from New York to its outposts in Hong Kong, Mumbai, Manila and elsewhere. 
As part of this effort, the Asia Society is for the first time naming two leaders of the board, one based in the United States and one in Asia. Henrietta Holsman Fore, a former chief of the United States Agency for International Development, and Ronnie C. Chan, a real estate developer in Hong Kong and China, will assume joint leadership of the board on June 10, taking over from Charles R. Kaye. Ms. Fore is the first woman and Mr. Chan the first Asian, to lead the board. Next year the Asia Society will open a new $52 million center in Hong Kong, which will include a museum, theater, cafe, event spaces and offices.
The society's president, Vishakha Desai, said in an e-mail that the decision to have two leaders was part of an effort to further develop programs, influence and fund-raising in Asia.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); REAL ESTATE (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (94%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



740 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: When Austerity Fails

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
I often complain, with reason, about the state of economic discussion in the United States. And the irresponsibility of certain politicians -- like those Republicans claiming that defaulting on U.S. debt would be no big deal -- is scary.
But at least in America members of the pain caucus, those who claim that raising interest rates and slashing government spending in the face of mass unemployment will somehow make things better instead of worse, get some pushback from the Federal Reserve and the Obama administration. 
In Europe, by contrast, the pain caucus has been in control for more than a year, insisting that sound money and balanced budgets are the answer to all problems. Underlying this insistence have been economic fantasies, in particular belief in the confidence fairy -- that is, belief that slashing spending will actually create jobs, because fiscal austerity will improve private-sector confidence.
Unfortunately, the confidence fairy keeps refusing to make an appearance. And a dispute over how to handle inconvenient reality threatens to make Europe the flashpoint of a new financial crisis.
After the creation of the euro in 1999, European nations that had previously been considered risky, and that therefore faced limits on the amount they could borrow, began experiencing huge inflows of capital. After all, investors apparently thought, Greece/Portugal/Ireland/Spain were members of a European monetary union, so what could go wrong?
The answer to that question is now, of course, painfully apparent. Greece's government, finding itself able to borrow at rates only slightly higher than those facing Germany, took on far too much debt. The governments of Ireland and Spain didn't (Portugal is somewhere in between) -- but their banks did, and when the bubble burst, taxpayers found themselves on the hook for bank debts. The problem was made worse by the fact that the 1999-2007 boom left prices and costs in the debtor nations far out of line with those of their neighbors.
What to do? European leaders offered emergency loans to nations in crisis, but only in exchange for promises to impose savage austerity programs, mainly consisting of huge spending cuts. Objections that these programs would be self-defeating -- not only would they impose large direct pain, but they also would, by worsening the economic slump, reduce revenues -- were waved away. Austerity would actually be expansionary, it was claimed, because it would improve confidence.
Nobody bought into the doctrine of expansionary austerity more thoroughly than Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, or E.C.B. Under his leadership the bank began preaching austerity as a universal economic elixir that should be imposed immediately everywhere, including in countries like Britain and the United States that still have high unemployment and aren't facing any pressure from the financial markets.
But as I said, the confidence fairy hasn't shown up. Europe's troubled debtor nations are, as we should have expected, suffering further economic decline thanks to those austerity programs, and confidence is plunging instead of rising. It's now clear that Greece, Ireland and Portugal can't and won't repay their debts in full, although Spain might manage to tough it out.
Realistically, then, Europe needs to prepare for some kind of debt reduction, involving a combination of aid from stronger economies and ''haircuts'' imposed on private creditors, who will have to accept less than full repayment. Realism, however, appears to be in short supply.
On one side, Germany is taking a hard line against anything resembling aid to its troubled neighbors, even though one important motivation for the current rescue program was an attempt to shield German banks from losses.
On the other side, the E.C.B. is acting as if it is determined to provoke a financial crisis. It has started to raise interest rates despite the terrible state of many European economies. And E.C.B. officials have been warning against any form of debt relief -- in fact, last week one member of the governing council suggested that even a mild restructuring of Greek bonds would cause the E.C.B. to stop accepting those bonds as collateral for loans to Greek banks. This amounted to a declaration that if Greece seeks debt relief, the E.C.B. will pull the plug on the Greek banking system, which is crucially dependent on those loans.
If Greek banks collapse, that might well force Greece out of the euro area -- and it's all too easy to see how it could start financial dominoes falling across much of Europe. So what is the E.C.B. thinking?
My guess is that it's just not willing to face up to the failure of its fantasies. And if this sounds incredibly foolish, well, who ever said that wisdom rules the world?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); GREECE (90%); PORTUGAL (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



741 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 996 words

PERSON: Nathaniel Davis 

HEADLINE: Nathaniel Davis, Diplomat, Is Dead at 86

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Nathaniel Davis, a seasoned diplomat who shepherded American interests through upheavals like the Chilean coup of 1973 and the breakout of civil war in Angola in 1975, died on May 16 in Claremont, Calif. He was 86.
The cause was heart failure, his wife, Elizabeth, said.
In the week before the military coup in Chile on Sept. 11, 1973, during which President Salvador Allende Gossens died, most likely by suicide, Mr. Davis, then the American ambassador to Chile, made a two-day visit to Washington. Over the years, that trip has often been interpreted as suggesting that the United States was involved in the plot. 
At the time, the State Department maintained that Mr. Davis had been summoned as a matter of routine, as had other ambassadors, to meet with Secretary of State-designate Henry A. Kissinger.
Through Congressional hearings and the release of classified documents, it later came out that President Richard M. Nixon and his top intelligence aides had indeed ordered spies, in a top-secret plan called Track Two, to cultivate relationships with military officers who opposed the governing socialists. Mr. Davis said he never knew about the plan until its existence was revealed at a Senate hearing in 1975.
He did know, he said, that Washington had wanted to encourage economic distress that might lead to political change, and he made a much-quoted remark that it would have been difficult to destabilize the Chilean economy any more than it already was.
Seymour M. Hersh, in his book ''The Price of Power: Kissinger in the Nixon White House'' (1983), quoted from one of Mr. Davis's cables: ''What is significant now is growing conviction in opposition parties, private sector and others that opposition is necessary.''
On the coup's 30th anniversary in 2003, Mr. Davis wrote that no evidence had emerged to prove American involvement. He pointed out that even Chile's Socialist Party now believed that Mr. Allende took his own life during the coup with a weapon given to him by Fidel Castro, while the presidential palace was under siege.
He asserted that the thousands of documents now declassified had not altered the views he expressed in his history of the coup, ''The Last Two Years of Salvador Allende,'' published in 1985 to good reviews. (Mr. Allende's body is scheduled to be exhumed Monday in Santiago, Chile, as part of a new investigation into his death.)
Mr. Davis's interpretations have not always been believed, however. After the movie ''Missing,'' directed by Costa-Gavras, came out in 1982, portraying Mr. Davis and two other former American officials as having been complicit in the murder of an American journalist, he and the others filed a libel suit. They initially sought $60 million in damages for the ''public disgrace, scorn and ridicule'' they had suffered. The suit was eventually dismissed.
Mr. Davis was assistant secretary for African affairs when Angola became independent of Portugal in 1975. He convened a task force that recommended against covert military intervention on behalf of anti-Communist forces, questioning the cost, the risks and the probability of success.
That was not the answer his bosses wanted, and the matter was passed to a secret intelligence committee, which did not include Mr. Davis, Raymond L. Garthoff wrote in ''Detente and Confrontation'' (1985).
The committee approved secret aid, which helped set the stage for a prolonged civil war between the Soviet-backed government and anti-Communist rebels backed by the United States.
Nathaniel Davis was born in Cambridge, Mass., on April 12, 1925. His father, Harvey, was a Harvard professor; his mother, the former Alice Rohde, was a research medical doctor. He graduated from Brown, served in the Navy Reserve and earned master's and doctorate degrees from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
He joined the Foreign Service in 1947 and served in Prague; Florence, Italy; Rome; and Moscow. He became first secretary in the embassy in Venezuela in 1960, and two years later was sent to administer the first Peace Corps volunteers in Chile. He returned to Washington to help R. Sargent Shriver organize the Peace Corps, which had been established by President John F. Kennedy.
Mr. Davis's first ambassadorship was to Bulgaria in 1965. After two years, he joined the National Security Council to oversee Soviet and East European matters. In 1968 he was named ambassador to Guatemala, succeeding John Gordon Mein, who had been assassinated by terrorists.
Mr. Davis was sent to Chile 11 months before the coup with instructions ''not to involve ourselves in any way,'' Mr. Kissinger wrote in his memoirs.
Little more than a month after the coup, Mr. Davis was promoted to director general of the Foreign Service in Washington.
Mr. Kissinger chose Mr. Davis to head African diplomacy in 1975. His lack of experience with the continent prompted Africans, American blacks, editorialists and even Mr. Davis himself to question the appointment.
He resigned several months after questioning the wisdom of aiding anti-Communist forces. Roger Morris, in ''Uncertain Greatness: Henry Kissinger and American Foreign Policy'' (1977), quoted an unidentified official as speculating that Mr. Davis wanted to protect his career from ''one Chile too many.''
Mr. Davis was soon appointed ambassador to Switzerland.
He became diplomat in residence at the Naval War College in 1977, and stayed there until 1983. He then became a professor of humanities at Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, Calif., retiring in 2002.
Mr. Davis was active in the civil rights movement and in the Democratic Party. He was also an experienced mountain climber. In 1995 he wrote a history of the Russian Orthodox Church called ''A Long Walk to Church.''
In addition to his wife, the former Elizabeth Kirkbride Creese, Mr. Davis is survived by his daughters, Margaret Davis Mainardi and Helen Miller Davis; his sons, James Creese Davis and Thomas Rohde Davis; eight grandchildren; two great-granddaughters; and two sisters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nathaniel Davis in 1983. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); DEATHS (90%); COUPS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); DAMAGES (70%); WRITERS (69%); MURDER (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); LIBEL & SLANDER (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

RICHARD NIXON (56%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



742 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: A Budget Without Core Purposes, Taxation Without Compassion

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
President Obama trusts America's generous and compassionate nature, that our rugged individualism is tempered by a belief that we're all connected. In his speech on budget reform on April 13, he celebrated ''our belief that those who benefited most from our way of life can afford to give back a little bit more.''
The president's faith in Americans' sense of common purpose is uplifting. But it does not fit the history of American budgetary politics. 
I don't just mean Tea Partiers' revulsion at the government spending ''our money,'' or Republican Paul Ryan's Reverse Robin Hood gambit to cut trillions from spending on social programs in order to pay for a tax cut for the rich.
The budgetary policy of the United States has been the least generous in the industrial world for a very long time.
Tax revenues in the United States have not reached 30 percent of gross domestic product since at least 1965. Today they amount to only 24 percent of G.D.P. In Britain, by contrast, they are 34 percent; in Sweden, 46 percent. And our government spending on social programs is equally puny. In 2007 Britain spent 25 percent more, as a share of its economy. Germany spent almost 60 percent more.
Cash transfers -- for unemployment insurance, pensions, benefits for children and the like -- amount to only 9 percent of household disposable income in the United States. Among the industrialized nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, only Korea provides less.
The government doesn't just spend too little trying to improve the lives of less-fortunate Americans. It spends badly -- lavishing benefits on the relatively well-to-do with misdirected subsidies. Within the O.E.C.D., only Korea's social transfers do a worse job in boosting incomes at the bottom and reducing income inequality.
Historically, we made up for some of these shortcomings by taxing the rich more heavily than the poor or middle class. But the tax code has become dramatically less progressive since the 1960s, as tax cuts and loopholes have reduced a wide variety of taxes paid by the rich.
In 2007, the average income-tax rate paid by the richest 400 taxpayers in the country was 16.62 percent -- according to figures from the Internal Revenue Service. Between 1970 and 2005, total federal taxes paid by the top 0.01 percent of earners fell by half, as a share of their income, to 35 percent on average, according to the economists Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez. This compares with 42 percent in Britain and 62 percent in France.
Representative Ryan would surely protest that our stingy public policy is not motivated by greed, but by necessity -- that it is indispensable to sustaining robust economic growth. High taxes and big government, in this view, will encourage sloth among the undeserving and discourage productive citizens from giving all in the workplace.
This argument doesn't hold up. The prosperity of Swedes has grown faster than that of Americans over the last 20 years. Even if lower taxes contributed to growth, I would suggest that we reconsider the trade-off. It's not working out for most of us.
As the president noted in his speech at George Washington University, growth has not delivered prosperity to all of us: 90 percent of working Americans saw their incomes fall in the past decade. The top 1 percent, though, saw their income rise by more than a quarter of a million dollars on average.
President Obama is right to cast the negotiations with Congress over the budget in terms of our values: ''It's about the kind of future that we want. It's about the kind of country that we believe in.''
But perhaps he shouldn't trust Americans' generosity and compassion to simply carry the day on Capitol Hill. To build the America he extols he is going to have to fight for it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); INCOME TAX (74%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWEDEN (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



743 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Play Strauss-Kahn?

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
To most Americans, the tale of Dominique Strauss-Kahn probably seems like fodder for a ''Law and Order'' episode, or maybe a cable-TV message movie. He's just another high-profile man behaving badly, part Arnold Schwarzenegger and part Ben Roethlisberger and more obscure than both.
But the story of the I.M.F. director charged with sexually assaulting a hotel maid is actually a natural fit for a more high-minded genre. In the hands of the right screenwriter, Strauss-Kahn's arrest could be the central thread in one of those sprawling, complex, kaleidoscope-of-globalization movies that aspire to Oscar glory. Think ''Traffic'' or ''Syriana,'' ''Crash'' or ''Babel'': the kind of movie that leapfrogs around the planet, shifting from place to place and perspective to perspective in an effort to bring an entire Big Issue into focus. 
Instead of the war on drugs or race relations in Los Angeles, though, the subject of this movie would be the potential collapse of the European Union.
The movie might begin with a decorously edited (rather than NC-17) version of Strauss-Kahn's Sofitel encounter. Then it would cut to the French presidential election, in which Strauss-Kahn was widely expected to be a leading candidate, zeroing in on the rise of Marine Le Pen, the far-right candidate who rode anti-immigration sentiment into a shocking lead in opinion polls this spring.
Next it would give us an intimate look at the latest wave of immigration, with scenes from a refugee camp in Italy, crowded with thousands of North Africans fleeing the violence in Tunisia and Libya. From there, it would jump to the contentious intra-European debates over how to handle the Libyan crisis, which have pitted Strauss-Kahn's France against Germany and made a mockery of the idea of a united European foreign policy.
The camera would then pan across the streets of Barcelona and Madrid, where an Internet-fueled protest movement is resisting the austerity policies Spain's government has implemented to avoid a Greece- or Ireland-style debt crisis. After that, it would cut to the backrooms of Berlin and Brussels, and the behind-the-scenes struggle to save the common currency from a debt-driven collapse.
Finally, it would return to Strauss-Kahn, formerly a key player in these negotiations, and suddenly just another New York City perp.
What binds all these plots together, with the former I.M.F. chief in a starring role, is the crisis of the European dream -- the vision of a continent without borders or divisions, supervised by a benevolent and cosmopolitan elite.
This crisis takes two forms. There's the challenge to Europe's economic union, driven by the upside-down balance sheets in the Continent's weaker economies. And there's the challenge to its political consensus, driven by an anti-immigration backlash that's empowered nationalist parties from France to Finland.
Both these problems increasingly divide Europe along north-south lines. (Once again, Strauss-Kahn's France straddles both worlds.) The debt-ridden countries of the Mediterranean are also the front lines for migration from the largely Muslim Maghreb, and their northern neighbors are trying to contain both the red ink and the refugees. Earlier this month, in a controversial move, the Danish government announced that it was restarting border checks, possibly running afoul of the Schengen agreement, which enables passport-free travel through the E.U.
Both pit the ambitions of the Continent's leaders against the residual nationalism of ordinary Europeans, who are challenging the elite consensus from the left and right at once. (Many prominent far-right leaders, Le Pen included, strike protectionist and populist notes.)
And both have been exacerbated by that same elite's arrogance and glaring blind spots -- its expansion of the monetary union to include economies that weren't ready to share a currency with Germany and France, and its blithe, politically correct assumption that mass immigration would enrich the Continent, rather than divide it.
No screenwriter could have invented a better embodiment of this elite than the globe-trotting, presidency-aspiring Strauss-Kahn. (Imagine if Ben Bernanke and Mitt Romney were somehow the same person, and you'll have a sense of his unique profile.)
Moreover, no creative mind could have dreamed up an allegation better calculated to vindicate the perception that today's Eurocrats are just a version of the old European aristocracy -- exercising droit du seigneur in high-priced hotel rooms while they wait to catch a first-class flight to Paris.
The only question is how the movie ends. Maybe Strauss-Kahn will be cleared in court; maybe the European project can be saved. But a drama that involves so much hubris seems likely to finish in tragedy instead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (86%); MOVIE RATINGS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); DRUG POLICY (73%); REFUGEES (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); EURO CRISIS (71%); WRITERS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (67%); DEBT CRISIS (67%); CORPORATE DEBT (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (56%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); CURRENCIES (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (92%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (76%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (67%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (91%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); TUNISIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (75%); GREECE (70%); AFRICA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



744 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Rally Around French Finance Minister for I.M.F. Director

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- As the International Monetary Fund prepared to accept nominations Monday to replace Dominique Strauss-Kahn at its helm, European officials rallied over the weekend around Christine Lagarde, France's finance minister, as their top choice for the post, despite fresh warnings from leaders of emerging markets and other countries that simply handing the job to another European could undermine the fund's legitimacy.
Ms. Lagarde's candidacy gained momentum after the British chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, backed her Saturday over the former prime minister, Gordon Brown, effectively ending Mr. Brown's bid for the post.
Calling Ms. Lagarde an ''outstanding'' choice, Mr. Osborne said he thought it would be ''a very good thing to see the first female managing director of the I.M.F. in its 60-year history.'' 
Following endorsements by Germany, Italy and other European countries, Mr. Osborne's decision thrust Ms. Lagarde to the forefront of Europe's efforts to keep a European in a post the Continent has held for more than 40 years.
The job, one of the most prestigious among multinational institutions, is up for grabs since Mr. Strauss-Kahn resigned last week to fight charges that he sexually assaulted a maid in a New York hotel May 14. Ms. Lagarde is widely respected in the world of international finance, although she is facing some scrutiny in France over allegations that she may have overstepped her authority in two cases during her early days as finance minister.
No European leaders have raised similar concerns. But other countries are taking a dark view of the aggressive European push.
Australia and South Africa issued an unusual joint statement Sunday criticizing a long-standing arrangement between Europe and the United States in which a European typically heads the I.M.F. and an American leads the World Bank.
''In order to maintain trust, credibility and legitimacy,'' the statement said, ''there must be an open and transparent selection process which results in the most competent person being appointed as managing director, regardless of their nationality.''
Leaders of Brazil, Mexico, China and other fast-growing emerging markets want a more open process that could see an official from one of their countries appointed to the position for the first time. These economies are gaining influence in the world as debt crises and economic downturns plague Western economies. Unlike Europe, however, the emerging-market countries are not speaking with a unified voice or throwing their weight behind a main candidate.
Names mentioned over the weekend included Agustin Carstens, central bank governor in Mexico; Montek Singh Ahluwalia, the deputy chairman of the planning commission in India; a former finance minister of South Africa, Trevor Manuel; and Leszek Balcerowicz, who helped oversee Poland's transition to a free market economy from communism.
Kemal Dervis, a former finance minister of Turkey whose name was widely circulated last week, took himself out of the running Friday.
President Barack Obama, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and other leaders of the Group of 8 industrialized economies are expected to consider the issue when they gather this week in Deauville, France, to discuss major political and economic issues.
The I.M.F. wants to pick a new leader by June 30, a rapid timetable that would help get the organization back on track to deal with a growing debt crisis in Europe. Fears are mounting that another meltdown in Greece may be unavoidable and could ricochet through other troubled European countries.
Since Greece received its 110 billion, or $156 billion, bailout, the country has been unable to resolve its financial crisis, sending European leaders and the I.M.F. scrambling for a way to keep Greece from default.
On Friday, Ms. Lagarde suggested that France could support a rescheduling of Greece's debts if banks that owned the debt agreed to extend the amount of time for repayment, an apparent shift in position that aligns France and Germany against the European Central Bank, which opposes any restructuring of Greece's debt.
The European Central Bank argues that a de facto default by a euro zone country would undermine confidence in other countries like Portugal and Ireland while forcing hard-pressed European banks to write down their holdings.
The European Central Bank could be forced to write off billions in losses on sovereign debt it owns, and would not be able to continue extending loans to Greek banks, which could derail the Greek finance system. The consequences could be as serious as the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in 2008, members of the European Central Bank governing council have said.
Ms. Lagarde, however, told the Austrian newspaper Der Standard: ''We would accept anything that is based on a voluntary accommodation by the banks.''
A solution became more urgent after the Fitch Ratings agency downgraded Greece's senior debt Friday three notches to B-plus, a new low. Portugal received a 78 billion bailout Friday from the I.M.F. and its European Union partners, the third in a year in the 17-country bloc that forms the euro monetary union.
Meanwhile, the Standard & Poor's ratings agency downgraded its outlook for Italy's credit rating Saturday, citing weak growth prospects and increased risks that it would not be able to cut a mountain of debt, one of the highest in the euro zone.
As Ms. Lagarde takes center stage in the runoff for the I.M.F., and the agency tries to revitalize its image after Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest, questions are being raised in France about two episodes that occurred on her watch as finance minister. France's court of justice has until June 10 to decide whether to investigate charges that Ms. Lagarde abused her authority in a case that resulted in a lucrative payment to a flamboyant French businessman, Bernard Tapie, in 2007.
For the past two decades, Mr. Tapie -- who has worn multiple hats over the years as the chief of the Adidas sports empire, as a French minister and as the owner of the Marseille soccer team -- has pursued claims that he was cheated by the troubled French bank Credit Lyonnais when it oversaw the sale of Adidas in 1993. The scandal-ridden bank was effectively put into state hands, and when Mr. Strauss-Kahn was finance minister in 1999, he ruled that the state was responsible for dealing with Mr. Tapie's claim.
When Ms. Lagarde became finance minister in 2007, the case still had not been settled. She ordered a special panel of judges to intervene in the dispute, resulting in a judgment of 285 million for Mr. Tapie.
Ms. Lagarde has denied charges of wrongdoing, saying she acted with ''rigor and transparency'' to keep the dispute from dragging out and increasing costs to taxpayers.
Another case that has been circulating in the French media involves a personal financial investment made by Ms. Lagarde in a small firm run by the son of a banker, Francois Drouin, whom she appointed in 2007 to head a French agency called Oseo that makes loans to small and medium-size French businesses.
In 2009, she invested 19,980 in Applicatour, a startup software firm run by Mr. Drouin's son, Stanislas Drouin, in which Mr. Drouin also had made several personal investments. Toward the end of that year, Applicatour received a loan backed partially by Oseo, a transaction of which Ms. Lagarde said she was unaware.
This month, Ms. Lagarde invested another 14,949 in the business, giving her a 5 percent shareholding in the company. The investment could make her eligible for a tax break granted for investments in start-up firms.
Ms. Lagarde was not immediately available for comment. She has said the investments were legal, and declared them to the French authorities last month. Although she did not specify her relationship with the Drouins in the declaration, she has characterized the investment as a personal effort to support a growing business and to enhance job creation.
As for Mr. Strauss-Kahn, his lawyer vowed that his client would be acquitted. In an interview published Sunday by the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, Benjamin Brafman said Mr. Strauss-Kahn was ''not happy to have been accused of crimes that he did not commit.'' Mr. Strauss-Kahn is next scheduled to appear in court June 6.
Last week, a law enforcement official in New York said that ''more than one'' woman had contacted investigators to suggest they had been sexually assaulted by Mr. Strauss-Kahn, but officials were still determining whether they would go to France to investigate.
Tristane Banon, a French journalist who came forward shortly after Mr. Strauss Kahn's arrest indicating sexual aggression by him in 2002 during an interview at his home, said Friday that she did not wish to testify against Mr. Strauss-Kahn in New York.
''The presumption of innocence doesn't exist in the United States,'' said her lawyer, David Koubbi. ''My client doesn't want to be involved in such a situation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine Lagarde would be the first female managing director for the I.M.F. and continue its tradition of European leadership. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOAN VALAT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (67%); SEX OFFENSES (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); DEBT CRISIS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (91%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); GEORGE OSBORNE (75%); GORDON BROWN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



745 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Obama Presses Israel to Make 'Hard Choices'

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Ethan Bronner and Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama struck back at Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel in a speech to a pro-Israel lobbying group on Sunday, defending his stance that talks over a Palestinian state should be focused on Israel's pre-1967 borders, along with negotiated land swaps, and challenging Israel to ''make the hard choices'' necessary to bring about a stable peace.
Mr. Obama, speaking before a conference of the influential American Israel Public Affairs Committee, offered familiar assurances that the United States' commitment to Israel's long-term security was ''ironclad.'' But citing the rising political upheaval near Israel's borders, he presented his peace plan as the best chance Israel has to avoid growing isolation.
''We cannot afford to wait another decade, or another two decades, or another three decades, to achieve peace,'' Mr. Obama said. The world, he said, ''is moving too fast.'' 
Administration officials said it would be up to Mr. Obama, during an economic summit in Paris next weekend, to try to talk his European counterparts out of endorsing Palestinian statehood in a coming United Nations vote, a prospect that would deeply embarrass Israel. Some French officials have already indicated that they are leaning toward such an endorsement.
''He basically said, 'I can continue defending you to the hilt, but if you give me nothing to work with, even America can't save you,' '' said Daniel Levy, a former Israeli peace negotiator and a fellow at the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan research group.
The appearance by Mr. Obama on Sunday punctuated a tense week in which he and Mr. Netanyahu made their separate cases about Palestinian statehood to American audiences. Mr. Netanyahu will address the same group on Monday and will speak before Congress on Tuesday at the invitation of Republican lawmakers.
In his speech, Mr. Obama did not directly confront Mr. Netanyahu, who, while seated next to him at the White House last Friday, rejected the proposal Mr. Obama made a day earlier that negotiations use Israel's 1967 borders as a starting point.
Mr. Obama's decision to stick to his position, albeit with strong reassurances about America's lasting bond with Israel, is a risky one politically. Mr. Obama is just starting a re-election campaign, and Republicans are doing what they can to present themselves to Jewish voters as more reliable protectors of Israel than the Democrats.
Republicans moved swiftly to criticize his Middle East proposal. ''The U.S. ought not to be trying to push Israel into a deal that's not good for Israel,'' the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said on ''Fox News Sunday.''
Administration officials said Mr. Obama chose to confront Israel on the stalled peace negotiations after his aides calculated that given the historic upheaval under way in the Arab world, the United States and Israel would both benefit from being seen as taking bold steps toward ending the impasse between Israelis and Palestinians.
As Mr. Obama himself pointed out, his theme in the speech last Thursday was not extraordinary. American presidents, including George W. Bush and Bill Clinton, have consistently instructed their foreign policy aides to pursue an agreement between the Israelis and Palestinians using the 1967 borders, with mutually agreed land swaps, as a basis for talks.
Former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel, in fact, made such a proposal to the president of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, in 2008, as the two sides rushed to complete a peace deal before Mr. Bush and Mr. Olmert left office.
But the 1967 border issue has always been privately understood, not spoken publicly, and certainly not publicly endorsed by a sitting American president.
When Mr. Obama did so last Thursday, he unleashed a furious response from Mr. Netanyahu. The prime minister's office put out a statement in advance of his meeting with Mr. Obama the next day in which Mr. Netanyahu said he expected to hear certain assurances from the president.
''That was Bibi over the top,'' one administration official said Saturday, referring to Mr. Netanyahu by his nickname. ''That's not how you address the president of the United States.''
Mr. Obama addressed his critics on Sunday, saying, ''What I did on Thursday was to say publicly what has long been acknowledged privately.''
Mr. Obama did offer words of assurance. He repeated what the Israeli prime minister so objected to -- the reference to pre-1967 borders -- and challenged those who he said had ''misrepresented'' his position.
But, he said, ''let me reaffirm what '1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps' means.'' His view, he said, is that ''the parties themselves -- Israelis and Palestinians -- will negotiate a border that is different than the one that existed on June 4, 1967.''
''It is a well-known formula to all who have worked on this issue for a generation,'' he continued. ''It allows the parties themselves to account for the changes that have taken place over the last 44 years.''
Mr. Netanyahu, in his critique of Mr. Obama's earlier remarks, had ignored the ''mutually agreed swaps'' part of the president's proposal.
Mr. Obama's remarks Sunday contrasted with those delivered a few minutes earlier by Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland, who gave a no-holds-barred speech filled with applause lines for the assembled lobbying group delegates.
Mr. Hoyer got several standing ovations, including a long one after he declared: ''I believe in Palestinian statehood. But I stand strongly against one that is declared either unilaterally or by an international body,'' in an allusion to the United Nations vote, which is slated for September.
Administration officials argue that one way to try to derail the United Nations vote is to have a viable peace process under way between Israelis and Palestinians.
On Sunday, Mr. Netanyahu gave a more muted response to Mr. Obama's speech than the one he issued last Thursday. ''I share the president's desire to advance peace, and I appreciate his efforts in the past and the present to achieve it,'' he said in a statement. ''I am determined to work together with President Obama to find ways to renew the peace negotiations.''
Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, commented on the speech by telephone from the West Bank city of Jericho: ''I am waiting to hear from Prime Minister Netanyahu. Does he accept the doctrine of two states on the 1967 line with agreed swaps or not? Before we hear that acceptance, we are just grinding water.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about President Obama's defense of his proposals for Middle East peace talks before a pro-Israel group misidentified the leadership position of Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, who said on Fox News Sunday that the proposals are ''not good for Israel.'' He is the Senate minority leader, not majority leader.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (A1)
 President Obama, speaking Sunday to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, offered familiar assurances. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (89%); MITCH MCCONNELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



746 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Releases will include new-home sales for April (Tuesday); durable goods for April (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims and first-quarter gross domestic product, revised (Thursday); personal income and spending for April; Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for May. (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include Campbell Soup (Monday); Medtronic (Tuesday); Costco Wholesale and Hormel Foods (Wednesday); and Tiffany (Thursday).
IN WASHINGTON A Senate Banking subcommittee will conduct a hearing about derivatives clearinghouses; a House Judiciary subcommittee will hold a hearing about digital security; (Wednesday). A House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about oversight of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; the Senate Banking Committee will hold a hearing on proposals for the future of housing finance; and a House Judiciary subcommittee will hold a hearing on the competitive effects of the proposed merger of AT&T and T-Mobile (Thursday).
OVERSEAS President Nicolas Sarkozy will host technology leaders in Paris (Tuesday and Wednesday). Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mr. Sarkozy and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany will attend the annual forum of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris (Wednesday and Thursday). Group of 8 leaders will meet in Deauville, France (Thursday and Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (57%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%)

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (57%); COST (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (70%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (66%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (66%) MICHIGAN, USA (91%); BASSE-NORMANDIE, FRANCE (50%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



747 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; YANKEES 9, METS 3; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: On Strength of One Inning, Yankees Thwart the Mets

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

 BODY:
The Mets were nine outs away Sunday from evening their record at .500, from capturing a series against the Yankees, from reigning supreme in New York. Their nominal ace, Mike Pelfrey, was cruising. The bottom of the Yankees' order was due up.
As far as implosions in the Bronx go for the Mets, it will never get worse than the first game they played at the new Yankee Stadium in 2009, when Luis Castillo's dropped pop-up with two outs in the ninth allowed the Yankees to win. And yet what unfolded in the seventh inning Sunday, when the Yankees erupted for eight runs and coasted to a 9-3 victory, ranked a ghastly second. 
''It was a huge deflation, huge; you could sense it in our dugout,'' Mets Manager Terry Collins said. ''The air came out of our balloon right there.''
Right there is an all-encompassing phrase, describing what occurred between the leadoff single by Brett Gardner and the groundout by Derek Jeter, the 13th and final batter of the inning. Pelfrey pitched to the first four hitters, retiring none. Instead of retreating to the clubhouse, Pelfrey watched from the dugout as three relievers combined to give up four runs -- one fewer than allowed by the bullpen over the previous 16 games. Had Pelfrey lasted through seven, the late-inning tandem of Jason Isringhausen and Francisco Rodriguez, which silenced the Yankees in the Mets' victory Friday night, would have been deployed.
''I thought I had good stuff today,'' Pelfrey said. ''It got away in four hitters.''
For the first six innings, Pelfrey had outdueled Ivan Nova, who was fortunate to allow only three runs after giving up 11 hits and a walk, and stifled an offense struggling to prove that it can score without the benefit of home runs. A day after hitting four, the Yankees reached as far as second base once in the first four innings, when Curtis Granderson slugged his 16th home run of the season.
They returned there once more, in the fifth, when Chris Dickerson was stranded after leading off with a double, but not again until the seventh, when, it seemed, they could do no wrong, and the Mets could do no right.
Pelfrey had not lost since April 29, delivering the sort of front-line pitching -- a 2.11 earned run average in 211/3 innings -- that helps offset injuries to the Mets' infield cornerstones, David Wright and Ike Davis. And as he replayed his role in the Mets' collapse Sunday, it was difficult to tell what bothered Pelfrey more: the single up the middle by Gardner, which he said he should have fielded; the walk to Dickerson; hitting Francisco Cervelli, who had squared to bunt; or giving up the first-pitch single to Jeter.
In the end, it did not matter. Pelfrey spoke solemnly about it all, but especially the fastball that struck Cervelli, which he characterized as ''the gasoline on the fire.''
The pitching coach Dan Warthen had just visited, and Pelfrey intended to throw his first pitch to Cervelli up and away, hoping to induce a pop-up. As he noticed Cervelli preparing to bunt, Pelfrey said he focused on him, rather than Ronny Paulino's target, ''and a lot of times the ball goes where your eyes are.'' Trailing by two runs, and with no hits in their previous 12 at-bats with runners on base, the Yankees had the bases loaded for Jeter, who ripped a sharp grounder up the middle for a game-tying, two-run single.
A sacrifice by Granderson advanced the runners and left open first base, which Mark Teixeira soon occupied after being intentionally walked. With Alex Rodriguez due up, third baseman Willie Harris moved back, expecting anything but what followed after a powerful swing: a 60-foot dribbler. ''Six hundred home runs plus,'' Harris said, ''and he gets a swinging bunt for a base hit.''
In 10 career plate appearances after an intentional walk to Teixeira, Rodriguez is hitting .750 (6 for 8) with a walk and 19 runs batted in. ''I showed them, didn't I?'' Rodriguez said.
He added: ''I was the happiest guy in the stadium. We've been talking about playing small ball for the last week or two. I don't think it could have gotten any smaller than that.''
Coming close were the hits that followed -- a single by Robinson Cano, a two-run double by Gardner, a blooper by Dickerson -- and they served a greater purpose. For all the grief the Yankees receive about the need to diversify their offense, they have revealed a capacity for manufacturing runs.
Without Davis and Wright and with Jason Bay a disappointing mystery, that seems the only way the Mets, who have one homer in their last six games, can score. They have won 17 of their last 28 games in overcoming a 5-13 start, but now they are back below .500, at 22-24, and with an awful inning to blame.
''Obviously, the seventh inning ruins the whole day,'' Pelfrey said. ''Ruins the whole day for me, ruins it for the team. It's unfortunate.''
INSIDE PITCH
David Wright (stress fracture) is scheduled to fly to Los Angeles on Monday to visit Dr. Robert Watkins, a back specialist who will work in conjunction with team doctors to develop a treatment plan for him.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After showing bunt, Francisco Cervelli was hit by Mike Pelfrey in the Yankees' eight-run seventh: ''the gasoline on the fire,'' Pelfrey said.
Pelfrey held the Yankees to one run through six innings, but he was removed after facing four batters in the seventh.
Curtis Granderson's 16th home run gave the Yankees a 1-0 lead in the first inning. (D1)
Brett Gardner's double to left, his second hit of the seventh inning, drove in two runs, giving the Yankees a 7-3 lead. Gardner raised his batting average to .267.
 The Mets' Jason Pridie was safe on a steal in the second as the ball skidded past Derek Jeter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



748 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Brown's Position on Ryan Budget Is Telling; 
The Caucus

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Senator Scott Brown's latest stance against the budget passed by the House is evidence of the trepidation with which Republican senators are viewing it.

 BODY:
There is now clear evidence of the trepidation with which Republican senators view the budget passed by their House counterparts.
In an opinion article in Politico, Senator Scott Brown of Massachusetts writes that he will not vote for the budget conceived by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, which includes an unpopular proposal to revamp Medicare.
"While I applaud Ryan for getting the conversation started, I cannot support his specific plan - and therefore will vote 'no' on his budget," Mr. Brown writes. "I fear that as health inflation rises, the cost of private plans will outgrow the government premium support- and the elderly will be forced to pay ever higher deductibles and co-pays."
He adds, "Protecting those who have been counting on the current system their entire adult lives should be the key principle of reform," and "we should start by making improvements to the traditional Medicare plan." 
Democratic senators are preparing this week to push a vote on Mr. Ryan's plan in the hope of forcing senators like Mr. Brown to take a position on it. And the political strategy seems to be working. Just a week ago, Mr. Brown took the opposite position on Mr. Ryan's budget, telling a local chamber of commerce in his state that he planned to vote for it.
"The leaders will bring forward his budget, and I will vote for it, and it will fail," Mr. Brown said as he made a broader point about the need for compromise. "Then the president will bring forward his budget, and it will fail. It will be great fodder for the commercials."
A few days later, Mr. Brown's office started backpedaling, saying that those remarks had been misinterpreted.
"He was making the point that political games are being played in Washington, but was not saying how he would vote on the bill, which, as you know, has not come up for a vote in the Senate and is not scheduled to anytime soon," said Colin Reed, a spokesman for Mr. Brown.
But either way, it's clear that Mr. Brown senses the political dangers inherent in embracing a plan that includes an overhaul of Medicare. Democrats were quick to seize on what they described as typical Washington double-speak from Mr. Brown.
"He talks like a D.C. politician who is trying to have it both ways and hide his own extreme positions," said Matt Canter, spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
An earlier version of this post incorrectly attributed to Mr. Brown a sentence that appeared on the Talking Points Memo Web site: "When I said last week that I was going to vote for the House GOP's plan to abolish Medicare what I really meant was I was going to vote on it -- and I have no idea yet which way I'm going to vote." In fact, the sentence was actually commentary written by the TPM managing editor, David Kurtz. The post now includes a statement provided by Mr. Brown's campaign. 

        
Republicans Bet Public Will Reward Them for Proposing Cuts
        
Obama Speech Defends Liberal Principles
        
Shutdown Watch: Four Days Out
        
Congress's Big Budget Week
        
Shutdown Watch: Five Days Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (76%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (60%) budget; CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; Paul Ryan; Republicans; Scott Brown; Senate; Brown, Scott P; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Massachusetts; Wisconsin; Congress; Elections; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; House of Representatives

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (95%); PAUL RYAN (94%) Brown, Scott P; Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Massachusetts; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



749 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Tough Issues Seen With Warnings in Tornado Zones

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Federal forecasters see conditions ripe for another tornado outbreak on Tuesday.

 BODY:
Here's a brief discussion I recorded on the challenges of living with sporadic or infrequent, but severe, hazards -- whether in tornado zones or earthquake zones:
The challenges in maintaining vigilance can best be understood by reviewing the sequence of National Weather Service storm prediction updates below. The federal forecasters and their private counterparts have gotten great at identifying the distinctive set of turbulent conditions that can spawn tornadoes, often days in advance. But any resulting tornadoes are hyper-local calamities and remain tough to pinpoint until just before they touch down.
Even with improved tornado forecasting, hour-by-hour shifts in the level of risk in various regions speak to the challenge of maintaining public responsiveness when sirens finally sound. Another enormous problem is the high rate of tornado warnings that end up being false alarms -- often 75 percent.
Recent research has found a substantial "false alarm effect," in which areas of the country with higher rates of errant warnings have more deaths and injuries. Here's the takeaway line from this study, by Kevin M. Simmons, an economist at Austin College, and Daniel Sutter an economist at the University of Texas-Pan American (both of whom provided valuable insight in a recent post on sources of vulnerability to tornadoes):A statistically significant and large false-alarm effect is found: tornadoes that occur in an area with a higher false-alarm ratio kill and injure more people, everything else being constant.
Here are some of the severe weather alerts issued since Monday afternoon:
1:17 p.m. |Update...AN INTENSE OUTBREAK OF TORNADOES AND WIDESPREAD SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS IS EXPECTED LATER TODAY OVER PORTIONS OF KS/OK/TX... [Read the rest.]May 24, 9:55 a.m. |Update The prospect of a substantial tornado outbreak has ebbed since Monday night (see below), but the new Storm Prediction Center forecast still sees more tornadoes likely late today:...TORNADO OUTBREAK EXPECTED OVER PARTS OF THE SRN AND CNTRL PLNS AND OZARKS LATER TODAY INTO TONIGHT...May 23, 6:00 p.m. |Update This extraordinary year of the twister continues. The Storm Prediction Center of the National Weather Service has issued a blunt warning to Kansas and Oklahoma and adjacent regions (risk map) to be prepared for the worst on Tuesday:...TORNADIC OUTBREAK POSSIBLE ACROSS THE CENTRAL AND SOUTHERN PLAINS TUESDAY. AN UPGRADE TO HIGH RISK MAY BE WARRANTED AS SITUATION BECOMES MORE CERTAIN...
A CLASSIC PLAINS TORNADIC OUTBREAK APPEARS TO BE EVOLVING ACROSS THE CNTRL/SRN PLAINS... ESPECIALLY FOR KANSAS AND OKLAHOMA. [Read the rest.]Postscript: And if you live in hurricane territory, it's worth noting that this week is designated as Hurricane Preparedness Week, with the Atlantic season beginning June 1. The hurricane season in the Atlantic Ocean should be more intense than normal while the Eastern and Central Pacific should have unusually quiet storm seasons, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced late last week.

        
More Trauma in America's Tornado Hot Zone
        
Killer Tornadoes, Horrible and Still Unknowable
        
In Tornado Zones, Seeking Shelter From the Storm
        
The Far North and Wintry Weather
        
Russian Heat Extraordinary But Not Unnatural

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEATHER (92%); TORNADOES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%) disasters; extreme weather; noaa; prediction; storms; Tornadoes; Disasters and Emergencies; National Weather Service; Weather; Midwestern States (US); Climate Change

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%) National Weather Service; Weather

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



750 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: In 'Food Deserts,' Oases of Nutrition

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: A charity turns to a for-profit model in Jakarta to make healthy street food available to poor children.

 BODY:
Poor urban neighborhoods in America are often food deserts - places where it is difficult to find fresh food. There are few grocery stores; people may do all their shopping at bodegas, where the only available produce and meat are canned peaches and Spam. If they want fruits and vegetables and chicken and fish, they have to take a bus to a grocery store. The lack of fresh food creates a vicious cycle; children grow up never seeing it or acquiring a taste for it. It is one reason that the poor are likelier to be obese than the rich.
In many cities across the world, the food desert is a food Sahara. This is particularly true in the shantytowns of Asian megacities, such as the neighborhoods of North Jakarta where the development agency Mercy Corps worked for about a decade to try to teach mothers about nutrition. In Jakarta, 17 percent of children under the age of 5 suffer from acute malnutrition, while 12 percent are overweight. Mercy Corps was doing traditional health education. But it found that while mothers learned a lot, they continued to feed their babies and small children the same stuff - a diet high in sugar and fat that lacked the nutrients children need to grow. They knew what they should be feeding their children. But that food wasn't a possibility where they lived.The problems familiar to us in America - the relatively high price of healthy food and the dearth of points of sale - were compounded in Jakarta by another serious obstacle: no kitchens. A family cramming six people into one room has nowhere to cook or eat. When women do cook, they must set up stoves in alleyways behind their houses; they use water they haul in buckets, which may or may not be clean. It's heroic. But it's not conducive to healthy eating.
Instead of eating home-cooked food, people in these neighborhoods buy the cheapest meals they can: food from street vendors. The equivalent of 20 cents in Jakarta can buy a meal of rice fried with soy sauce and a little chicken, or deep fried fish cakes. Ten cents will buy a snack. Overcrowded, kitchenless housing has given rise to a culture of street food that has done wonders for tourism in Asian cities - the most crowded parts of the planet. But it has also condemned tens or hundreds of millions of people to an almost nutrition-free diet.
Mercy Corps couldn't think of anything traditional that a nongovernmental group could do about this. So it did something very untraditional: in April, 2009, it started a healthy street food business called Kedai Balitaku, or My Child's Cafe, that has since spun off into a for-profit company. "The idea was to provide access while raising awareness about healthy food and creating economic opportunity," said Sean Granville-Ross, Mercy Corps' Indonesia country director.
This was new. "Until the last 10 years, the thought that the answer to a problem is 'let's go start a social business' is not one that would be at the front of your mind," said Randall Kempner, the executive director of the Aspen Network of Development Entrepreneurs. Starting a business is an intriguing approach that in some situations has advantages over the traditional response of non-governmental organizations. One is faster potential growth; a proven business has access to pools of investment capital that are much larger than available philanthropy. Another is sustainability - while philanthropic projects may not outlast a donor's whims, a successful social business can be there for the long haul. But social businesses - businesses created for the primary purpose of serving a social need - are often not successful. Most small businesses fail within a few years of their founding, and the outlook for social businesses is probably even less rosy. They may be especially hard to do well for nongovernmental groups accustomed to a very different culture.
Mercy Corps started Kedai Balitaku with a $120,000 donation, of which $30,000 is being used for ongoing training for employees. In December 2010, Kedai Balitaku - known as KeBal, which means "immune" or "invulnerable" - became an independent limited liability company, with a new manager beginning in March.
KeBal sells niche street food. Its clientele is children - and it focuses on those 5 years old and younger. The most popular meal is a chicken, rice and vegetable porridge, which costs the going rate of 20 cents. The leading snack is a 10 cent gelatin pop. Such pops are a common snack but they are almost always made with artificial fruit flavors; KeBal's are made with real mango, strawberry, melon or other fruits. The menu also includes meatballs, macaroni and cheese and shu mai dumplings. The carts use food-grade materials and vendors get regular health inspections from KeBal's management. (Jakarta does not inspect street vendors, who sometimes resort to using formaldehyde to keep their food fresh.)
Nutritionists designed the menu, but just as important as what went into the food was convincing mothers to buy it and children to eat it. The advertising firm Saatchi & Saatchi donated the design of the visual brand and a marketing strategy aimed at children. The carts have bright colors and play music. Four dolls on the cart represent different food groups and are named for benefits of good nutrition - Strong, Smart, Lively and Taller. The cart also has built-in toys teaching shapes or colors that kids can play with while they wait. They display hand-washing messages and have jugs of water with soap so vendors can wash dishes and children can wash before they eat. The food is displayed at a child's eye level.
The food is prepared by KeBal employees in a cooking center, which starts work just after midnight to make food to sell to eight vendors, who begin their routes around 5 a.m. The vendors take the risks and keep all the profit on the food they sell.
KeBal is about to open a second cooking center, and is planning to have six by the end of the year, each providing food to at least eight vendors. Next year, as soon as Indonesian franchise law allows, KeBal will also start selling cooking center franchises. By 2013, the company hopes to own 21 cooking centers and have 10 more owned by franchisees. That will allow it to feed 6,000 children daily and take in projected revenue of at least $2 million a year.
Can KeBal grow into a major street food brand in Jakarta - and elsewhere? KeBal is still in start-up mode, but so far it has astoundingly high brand recognition and customer loyalty: a survey of areas where KeBal sells found that 88 percent of households had heard of it and 64 percent buy the food at least three times a week.
But it faces major challenges particular to social businesses. One is keeping a competitive price. Agni Pratama, Mercy Corps' economic development program manager, said that to attract and keep customers KeBal must match its competitors' prices - but KeBal's ingredients are more expensive. It has had to raise prices on some foods - healthy cookies, for example, couldn't be sold for 10 cents. "We are trying to make it up with volume and by developing new menu items that can become substitutes with higher profits," said Pratama. "We are trying to see how we can increase prices, but we really have to be careful not to lose customers who are loyal to KeBal."
It's the customers who can't or won't pay more for a healthy meal who most need KeBal's food, so it cannot drive them away. Usye Umanah, who ran the program when it was at Mercy Corps and is now training KeBal's employees, said that most mothers tend to choose food based on price and portion size. Mercy Corps is continuing its nutritional education work - and now holding cooking classes for children - in an effort to change that. "We want to get them to include nutrition and health when they decide to buy this or that product," she said.
Like many social businesses, KeBal exists to bring goods or services to people who otherwise can't afford them. An influential book by the business professor C.K. Prahalad argues that there's a fortune to be made at the bottom of the pyramid. And, in fact, some large companies, like Unilever, have had success selling things like single-use sachets of shampoo or detergent to very poor people who only have tiny amounts of disposable income at any point in time. But what KeBal is trying to do is harder: not just size-down its products to fit the poor, but build a market from scratch for a new food product that costs more to produce because it is healthier. KeBal has the double challenge of serving people who can't pay very much while having to change their eating habits. If this were easy to do profitably, social businesses wouldn't be necessary. On Friday I'll look at other social businesses - successful and not-so successful - and see what can be learned from their stories.
Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes.
Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book "The Haunted Land: Facing Europe's Ghosts After Communism." She is a former editorial writer for The Times and now a contributing writer for the paper's Sunday magazine. Her new book is "Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World." 

        
Publishers as Partners in Literacy
        
A Conversation About Food, Cooking and Alice B. Toklas
        
A Book in Every Home, and Then Some
        
Junk Food 'Guidelines' Won't Help
        
Is 'Eat Real Food' Unthinkable? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (92%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MALNUTRITION (79%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (79%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); OBESITY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); DIETING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%) children; Diet and Nutrition; indonesia; jakarta; street vendors; Children and Youth; Food; Vendors, Street; Mercy Corps; Jakarta (Indonesia); Fixes

ORGANIZATION: MERCY CORPS (93%) Mercy Corps

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (71%) Jakarta (Indonesia)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



751 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Fish Tales

BYLINE: SAM SIFTON


HIGHLIGHT: Out with the Manhattan Cup fishing tournament.

 BODY:
Frank Crescitelli, chairman of the Fishermen's Conservation Association, is a garrulous Staten Islander with a booming voice and a sure hand on the wheel of his enormous fishing boat, which on Friday was bobbing peacefully on an ebb tide off the Breezy Point jetty, Midtown Manhattan rising in front of him in the mist. It was late morning, a few rainy hours into the Manhattan Cup, a catch-and-release fishing tournament that has been an annual competition in New York Harbor since at least 1999. 
Monte Burke, a reporter for Forbes and one of the country's better outdoor writers, was on the bow of Mr. Crescitelli's boat, holding a fly rod, looking for prey. (Wade Boggs was in the stern, surrounded by acolytes, telling stories.) Steve Liesman, the senior economics reporter for CNBC, was in another boat passing by, run by another Staten Island captain, Tommy Verderosa. Nearly 50 other guides were around the harbor somewhere, looking for fish with their clients. They had all left the dock together at Chelsea Piers at 9 a.m., and were due back at 4 p.m.
The fishing was slow. It was nonetheless important. Mr. Crescitelli is no slouch in the business of fish-killing and preparation. Bryan Goulart and Brendan McCarthy, two of the other captains who participated in the tournament, also do well in this department. (Mr. Goulart, of rich Portuguese stock, uses red-wine vinegar as others do butter or salt.) Tom Colicchio, a fisherman of great intensity in addition to his business as a restaurateur and television judge, was also out on the water somewhere. So was the chef Kerry Heffernan, who has been known to cook every nonhuman living organism to be snagged onto his boat. 
But on this day, every caught fish would return to the water from which it came, a practice that Mr. Crescitelli and his colleagues in the FCA hope will help highlight both the bounty of the waters that surround New York City and the importance of managing it for future generations. As Mr. Burke has reported, thousands of pounds of fish are stolen from these waters each month and sold on the black market. 
There weren't many fish, however. The tournament's high hook award, given to the boat with the largest number of fish caught and released, would eventually go to Mr. Goulart, with eight fish. (He has won the same award in past years with more than 20.) But there were still a few good ones. Ralph Roth, of Weigh Point Charters, eventually put the angler Tom LaTorre on a 40.75 pound striped bass to win the tournament outright.
Celebrating afterward at Chelsea Piers, on whose docks the tournament had started and ended, Mr. Crescitelli took to a microphone to start an auction. The money raised by the Manhattan Cup goes to a number of causes and charities, including fights against cystic fibrosis and autism, and for gamefish status for striped bass. 
"Let's start with this watch," he yelled, waving one in the air from his perch on a balcony. Fishermen swelled forward to bid, some holding plates of chicken wings, others platters of clams, their rubber boots clumping. The Hudson River poured past, and the sun broke through over New Jersey in the distance. New York City was, for a moment, transformed into a small drinking village with a fishing problem, and all was right with the world.

        
In The Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORT FISHING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); FISHES (78%); WRITERS (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); FUNDRAISING (65%) Fishermen's Conservation Association; fishing; Manhattan Cup; Monte Burke; Chefs; Fishing, Sport; Manhattan (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



752 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2110 words

HEADLINE: By the Billions: Creating and Comparing Population Growth Projections

BYLINE: PATRICK HONNER and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Using data to develop population projections and comparing them with those from the United States Census Bureau and the United Nations, as well as considering the implications of global population growth.

 BODY:
Overview | How fast are populations growing around the world? How can governments, institutions and individuals use that knowledge to appropriately plan for the future? In this lesson, students create population profiles of countries and use simple mathematical tools to create population projections that can be compared and analyzed. They also delve into related questions about resources and supplies with respect to projected population growth. 
Materials | Graph paper; computers with Internet access and projector; graphing calculators (optional); computers with spreadsheet software (optional).
Warm-Up | Show the NOVA interactive graphic "Human Numbers Through Time," which provides a brief overview of world population growth over the past 2,000 years. Ask students what strikes them about the graphic. Ask: Why do you think the world population seems to be growing more quickly now than 200 years ago? What do you think the projection for 2050 is based on? What are the implications of such growth? What concerns does it raise? Write students' ideas on the board.
Next, tell students that the United Nations recently revised its projections for world population growth: Instead of stabilizing at approximately 9 billion people, as the final NOVA slide indicates, the world's population is now expected to grow to more than 10 billion by the year 2100. Read aloud the following quote from the New York Times article "U.N. Forecasts 10.1 Billion People by Century's End": "Demographers called the new projections a reminder that a problem that helped define global politics in the 20th century, the population explosion, is far from solved in the 21st. 'Every billion more people makes life more difficult for everybody - it's as simple as that,' said John Bongaarts, a demographer at the Population Council, a research group in New York."
Have small groups of students spend a few minutes discussing the following questions related to world population growth: What is meant by the statement "Every billion more people makes life more difficult for everybody"? What are some reasons that the world population may be growing faster than expected? What are some of the advantages and disadvantages of rapid population growth? What kinds of countries have rapid population growth? Why is it important to understand how fast, or slow, a country's population is growing? How are population growth projections created? What do governments need to do with respect to population projections?When they are finished discussing, small groups should share ideas with the class. Add these ideas to the notes on the board. If necessary, note that by understanding a country's population and growth, mathematical models can be used to project future population data. Knowing how many people will likely be around in 10, 50 or 100 years allows governments to make appropriate short- and long-term plans for the allocation of resources, the management of infrastructure, and the overall care of their society.
Tell the class that they will now read the New York Times article that the quotation came from in its entirely.
Related | In the article "U.N. Forecasts 10.1 Billion People by Century's End," Justin Gillis and Celia W. Dugger discuss some of the reasons the United Nations revised its population forecast upward for 2100:The projections were made by the United Nations population division, which has a track record of fairly accurate forecasts. In the new report, the division raised its forecast for the year 2050, estimating that the world would most likely have 9.3 billion people then, an increase of 156 million over the previous estimate for that year, published in 2008.
Among the factors behind the upward revisions is that fertility is not declining as rapidly as expected in some poor countries, and has shown a slight increase in many wealthier countries, including the United States, Britain and Denmark.
The director of the United Nations population division, Hania Zlotnik, said the world's fastest-growing countries, and the wealthy Western nations that help finance their development, face a choice about whether to renew their emphasis on programs that encourage family planning.
Though they were a major focus of development policy in the 1970s and 1980s, such programs have stagnated in many countries, caught up in ideological battles over abortion, sex education and the role of women in society. Conservatives have attacked such programs as government meddling in private decisions, and in some countries, Catholic groups fought widespread availability of birth control. And some feminists called for less focus on population control and more on empowering women.Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below. (You may also want to have students read the related Green blog post "Coming to a Planet Near You: 3 Billion More Mouths to Feed" and discuss the environmental and other concerns regarding population growth mentioned in the post.)
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension: Why is explosive population growth occuring in Africa, and why is it cause for concern, according to the article? What "demographic milestone" is expected in October 2011? What are some of the factors behind the revised population projections for 2100? According to U.N. population division director Hania Zlotnik, what "caveats" come with any population projection that looks well into the future? Do any of the statistics and projections for specific countries mentioned in the article surprise you? If so, which ones and why?
Activity | Explain to students that they will create a population profile of a country and then compare it with profiles for different nations and regions. In addition, they will create population projections for their country and compare these with the projections of official institutions like the United States Census Bureau and the United Nations.Assign or have each student select a country to profile, ensuring that an appropriate cross-section of the world is being researched. One way to do it is to assign small groups to a continent, with each group member working on a particular country in that continent.
Tell students that they are to create two population graphs for their country, plotting population on the vertical axis against time on the horizontal axis. The first graph will be used for comparing and contrasting different countries' populations. In order to make meaningful comparisons, these graphs should employ a standard scale. For example, if the horizontal shows time in intervals of ten years, between 1950 and 2010, with one inch equal to 10 years, and the vertical shows population in hundreds of millions, with one inch equaling 200 million, each graph will be about 8 inches square in size. The actual dimensions of the graph are less important than the fact that they are uniformly used; this makes comparing and contrasting the graphs much easier.
The purpose of the second graph is for the student to plot their country's data and to ultimately make projections about that country's future population. Tell students to use a scale for population that is suitable to their country's size, but to make the horizontal long enough to cover a time range from 1950 to 2050. This additional space will allow for extrapolation of the given data beyond the current year.
Students can use the U.S. Census Bureau's International Data Base or the United Nations Population Division to find population data for their chosen country at ten-year intervals from 1950 to 2010. They can also use other available population data. They can then use the data to plot points on their graphs. Have students connect the data points to create a connected chain of line segments (a piecewise linear graph) that represents their country's population.
When the graphs are complete, have the students compute the slope of each line segment that connects each pair of data points. This slope gives the average population growth during that 10-year period between the data points, as measured in "change in population per year." For example, if the population of the country is 50 million in 1950 and 58 million in 1960, this means that the population grew at an average rate of 8 million people per 10 years, or about 0.8 million people per year.
A typical feature of population growth is that the rate of increase itself increases over time. Visually, this means that the line segments get steeper from left to right. When the slopes of each line segment are computed for each 10-year interval, students can look for a pattern in how the slopes, i.e. the rates of population growth, change. For example, students might notice that, every ten years, the slope of the line segments increase by 0.5 million people per year: this means that the rate of change of population increases by 0.5 million people per year.
Once a pattern is identified, students can then extend their graph beyond 2010 by drawing a line segment from the 2010 data point whose slope fits this pattern. By extending this new line segment so that it covers 10 years on the horizontal axis, this will create a population projection for the year 2020. By repeating the process, students can create population projections for 2030, 2040 and beyond.
After students have created their projections for the year 2050, have them look at the official projections for 2050 from the U.S. Census Bureau's International Data Base and the U.N. Population Division to compare their results.
Use the uniformly scaled graphs to create a gallery walk where students can share their work with their classmates. Group countries by region to allow for direct comparison between neighboring countries as well as comparisons of regions and continents. Have students share their population projections and look for trends in regions. Ask them to consider questions like "What kinds of countries are growing the fastest, and why?" Have the students reflect on the challenges that different countries and regions face, and how accurate population projections can help countries make the right decisions for their citizens.
Going Further | This activity uses linear functions to model population growth. Typical population models fit data to exponential functions. Using a graphing calculator with regression capabilities, students can find the curve of best fit by entering the data and computing the Exponential Regression equation. Most spreadsheet programs can perform the same regression analysis. Experimenting with various regression models (exponential, power, logistic) allows students to see which models best fit the existing data.
Direct students to Populstat for more historical population data, which will allow them to create more comprehensive graphs using a larger data set. Does more data mean better projections?
Have students dig deeper into the data at the U.N. Population Division, where world and country statistics on migration, fertility, mortality, and a host of other information is available. Use the U.N. country profile to look more closely at select countries: how is that country's population distributed by age? By gender? What's the average life expectancy? Investigate what this detailed information has to say about population growth.
Explore the "population explosion" as covered by Andy Revkin on the Dot Earth blog: How do we feed 9 billion people? Should the "population explosion" really worry us
Finally, you might plan a cross-curricular activity with a social studies or history teacher that uses your students' quantitative analyses to investigate the issues involved, like international relations, regional stability, migration, food security, contraception and more. One idea is to hold your own version of the Room for Debate discussion "Can the Planet Support 10 Billion People?"
Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards):
Mathematics4. Understands and applies basic and advanced properties of the concepts of measurement.6. Understands and applies basic and advanced properties of the concepts of measurement.8. Understands and applies basic and advanced properties of the concepts of functions and algebra.9. Understands the general nature and uses of mathematics.
Geography9. Understands the nature, distribution and migration of human populations on Earth's surface.
Technology6. Understands the nature and uses of different forms of technology.

        
Fill-In | Defined by the Numbers
        
A Leader Surrenders in West Africa
        
What Might Statistics Say About You?
        
Mapping Our Neighborhoods, Mapping America
        
Predicting the Vote: Analyzing Election Data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POPULATION GROWTH (94%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); CENSUS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); MODELING & SIMULATION (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (76%); SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%) data; mathematical modeling; Population; projection; statistics; United Nations; Census; Academic Skills; Current Events; Data Analysis and Probability; Economics; Environment and Society; Global Economics; Global History; Human Sexuality; Lesson Plans; Mathematics; Nutrition

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



753 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Schott's Vocab)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Hendricks Syndrome

BYLINE: BEN SCHOTT


HIGHLIGHT: (Male) enthusiasm for television's portrayal of submissive women - such as the glamorous secretary in "Mad Men," Joan Holloway, played by Christina Hendricks.

 BODY:
(Male) enthusiasm for television's portrayal of submissive women - such as the glamorous secretary in "Mad Men," Joan Holloway, played by Christina Hendricks.
Noting that television executives "have picked up an extraordinary number of shows by and about strong, modern women," Maureen Dowd observed:
But Hollywood is a world ruled by men, and this season, amid economic anxieties, those men want to indulge in some retro fantasies about hot, subservient babes.
"It's the Hendricks syndrome," said one top male TV producer here. "All the big, corporate men saw Christina Hendricks play the bombshell secretary on 'Mad Men' and fell in love. It's a hot fudge sundae for men: a time when women were not allowed to get uppity or make demands. If the woman got pregnant, she had to drive to a back-alley abortionist in New Jersey. If you got tired of women, they had to go away. Women today don't go away."
A top female entertainment executive says "it's not a coincidence that these retro shows are appearing at the same time men are confused about who to be. A lot of women are making more money and getting more college degrees. The traditional roles of dominant and submissive roles are reversed in many cases. Everything was clearer in the '60s."

        
SlutWalk
        
Pornotopia
        
Leftover Ladies & 3S Women
        
Hus-been
        
Soshokukei Danshi

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ABORTION (68%) men; society; television; women

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



754 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: More Trauma in America's Tornado Hot Zone

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The Midwest gets a devastating reminder of the destructive potential in America's tornado hot zone.

 BODY:
2:55 p.m. | Updated The devastating tornado that shredded Joplin, Mo., Sunday night is a reminder of the incredible destructive potential from storms in America's heartland. Here's video of the tornado's arrival, recorded by Jeff and Karen Piotrowksi.
In the tornado zone, the focus, going forward, should remain on improving responsiveness to warnings, construction standards and the availability of shelter.
I encourage you to read an excellent examination of this spring's extraordinary tornado death tolls by Patrik Jonsson of the Christian Science Monitor. Here's just one snippet from a piece that's worth reading end to end: 
On average, tornado deaths in the United States have gone from 8 per 1 million people in 1925 to 0.11 per 1 million people today - a trend largely attributed to early-warning systems fed by advanced meteorology and the introduction of Doppler radar.
Yet the stunning death tolls from tornadoes this spring raise new questions about government subsidies for storm shelters, the psychology of warning response, the possibility of limited tornado evacuations, and the argument that tornado warning and response should be considered a national security issue.
"As big as these events have been, people are putting politics aside and asking questions they weren't willing to ask a year ago," says Kevin Simmons, an economist at Austin College in Sherman, Texas, who has studied tornado casualty tolls. "After the Oklahoma City tornado in 1999, we were horrified by 36 people dying. We're now talking about hundreds." [Read the rest.]
Discussions of any possible impact of human-driven climate change on tornado trends are for another day, given the lack of evidence of any influence so far, as shown in this graph below of trends in reported tornadoes of different intensities:
Another graph, of federal data on reported tornadoes in the most destructive categories (F3 and up), is even more revealing. It comes from "U.S. Tornado Climatology," an invaluable, and recently updated, report from the National Climatic Data Center.
There's much more on Dot Earth on tornadoes and risk and extreme weather in a warming world.

        
Tornadoes and Warming, from the Archives
        
Killer Tornadoes, Horrible and Still Unknowable
        
Extreme Weather in a Warming World
        
Tornadoes and Natural Gas in the Greenhouse
        
Tough Issues With Warnings in Tornado Zones

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); TORNADOES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); TRENDS (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); RADAR SYSTEMS (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); RELIGION (55%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%) Climate Change; disasters; extreme weather; Global Warming; resilience; storms; Tornadoes; Disasters and Emergencies; Weather; National Climatic Data Center; Joplin (Mo)

ORGANIZATION: National Climatic Data Center

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Joplin (Mo)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



755 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: T.G.I.M.

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: How do you get a busy person's attention?

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
THANK GOD IT'S MONDAY Just checking. Are we all still here? Phew.
WE DID IT The debt ceiling has been reached. Barkley Rosser says to forget about it: "Treasury Secretary Geithner should simply ignore the debt ceiling and continue to pay the bills as they come in, thereby avoiding any defaults or spending cuts or financial crises." Reuters' James Pethokoukis says we should ignore the secretary's debt-ceiling scare tactics: "Team Geithner has plenty of flexibility about which bills to pay and plenty of dough with which to do it." Several small-business owners offer their own ideas for reducing the deficit. The Urban Land Institute says our infrastructure needs a $2 trillion upgrade.
THE STRUGGLE CONTINUES A Gallup poll says economic concerns have reached a two-year high. Seeking Alpha's John Nyaradi tells investors that red flags are everywhere. For example: "There has been a significant rotation into 'defensive' sectors like utilities and consumer stocks. (This typically indicates money leaving 'risk' assets and often portends market declines)." Both Wal-Mart and Home Depot report lower sales. My kids are freaking out about this story (but Evan Longoria is keeping his cool). Housing starts and building permits fall in April, as does the Architecture Index. Industrial production stays the same because of a decline in manufacturing output. Existing home sales fall. The Philly Fed is weak. 
WEAK IS GOOD Some small-business owners are benefiting from higher gas prices. American Airlines says that small-business travel spending is up. The Wall Street Journal's Kathleen Madigan says that housing weakness is a mixed blessing: "the only sure way for home construction to recover is for supply to decline significantly." Ezra Klein explains why a weak dollar isn't so bad: "a stronger dollar is good for buying stuff and a weaker dollar is good for making stuff. What a temporarily weak dollar is particularly good for, however, is recovering from a deep recession." Mark Perry says that manufacturing profits have returned to record high levels. Kash Mansori is cautiously optimistic about our manufacturing performance: "U.S. manufacturing has done far better during this recovery than what we've grown used to seeing over the past 30 years." And in a new report, the White House reminds us of all the good things our president has done: "17 tax breaks for business owners, more than $50 billion in federal loan guarantees since 2009, and federally supported programs that have provided counseling to more than two million business owners."
BLOW AWAY THE FOG Goldman Sachs's chief economist says the next recession is "years away." Vistaprint's new index says most of us are pretty happy. Daniel Burrus, technology futurist, says we must envision our company's future: "Even though we are surrounded by a fog of bad news regarding the economy and a slow jobs recovery, there is a mountain of great opportunity right in front of us. We simply have to blow away the fog to see it." Stephanie Chandler gives us eight reasons to celebrate being a small business. For example: "Want to leave early and take your kid to the park? Take a vacation? Launch a new product? The only person you need to ask is the one you see in the mirror." Dude, this California lifeguard is making bank.
PLANKING AROUND THE WORLD A new report from the World Bank predicts that by 2025 China, along with five other emerging economies - Brazil, India, Indonesia, South Korea and Russia - will account for more than half of all global growth, up from one third now. Mike Mandel points out that we've hit a milestone in trade: "For the first time, imports from China, Mexico, Brazil exceeded imports from the G6 countries." BlackBerry makes a small-business push into China. Planking takes Australia. Ten Latin America start-ups are worth tracking. The United States trade representative says the government is creating more export opportunities for small businesses. International sales may be booming, but most big companies still rely on the domestic market for their profits.
LINKEDIN CASHES IN The Economic Development Administration introduces a new virtual community of organizations to support technology-based start-ups. LinkedIn is valued at more than $4 billion. Bank of America announces a suite of small-business credit cards. But be careful -- some small-business credit cards may put you at risk.
WHAT DO TEXANS LOVE? A state lawmaker in Washington isn't thrilled about cigar lounges. Unemployment in New Hampshire falls below 5 percent. An editorial says that Connecticut is closed for business. Brad McCarty says that Omaha is a great place for start-ups: "Rather than just having slogans and T-shirts, that Midwestern work ethic is coming into play and Omaha is facing problems with action." Scholars at the Brookings Institution say that Cleveland has recovered from the recession. Michigan's regulatory chief says the state has too many regulations. And why is Texas No. 1 for business? Because Texans love puppies, of course!
HELLO SOCIAL MEDIA, GOODBYE BRAINS A new survey says that nearly three-quarters of America's small businesses are doing social media. But the Northeast is lagging. AdAge provides a breakdown of who these people are. Social media expert Jason Falls explains what small towns can teach us about social business. "You must give of your time, energy and compassion to show those there that you are, in fact, a part of the community." The executive editor of The New York Times says, "Basically, we are outsourcing our brains to the cloud."
DOUBLE SLURPING? GENIUS! ADP releases an Android app for managing payroll. Online cash management tool Bill.com adds document management. In a flash of genius, 7-11 is coming out with a dual-chambered Slurpee cup. Sam's Club launches a health management solution for small businesses. Thinktank NDN launches a clean energy solution series in Washington. The Small Business Administration honors the best small businesses in America.
THE HOTTEST START-UP IN NEW YORK Liz Gannes explains why some young ex-Googlers left to do a social media start-up. Martin Zwilling says we need to do the right thing when starting a business: "Leading people to do the right thing as a team is one of the most challenging things to teach and coach." Web site Startup Expert offers new services to help entrepreneurs. The San Francisco Chronicle tells the story of Gilt Groupe, "the hottest start-up in New York." A mobile payments start-up raises $6.5 million. But suprisingly few Americans actually work in start-ups.
MICROSOFT'S BIG WEEK The Blackberry Playbook is a surprise success. A new version of Peachtree accounting software for small business appears. Ramon Ray says that Google's new Chrome laptop is built for the cloud professional. Microsoft is defended by Bill Gates, gets a big victory in Google's backyard and reports that one in 14 downloads is malicious. Dell's profits jump. Hewlett-Packard cuts its sales forecast. Here are a few signs you may need a virtual assistant. The C.D.C. issues a Zombie Apocalypse alert.
THE WEEK AHEAD Durable goods, gross domestic product, personal income and consumer spending numbers are coming this week. And on Wednesday you can be proud to be a geek.
THIS WEEK'S AWARDS
TURNAROUND STRATEGY Jane Porter offers strategies for turning around a business. For example: "Instead of cutting staff, author Denise O'Berry suggests taking a closer look at lowering expenses elsewhere within the company. For example, when a small deli she worked with wanted to turn the business around, O'Berry had the owner review the menu offerings more carefully. It turned out that while the deli offered 50 items, customers were buying only 20 percent of them. By streamlining the menu, the business significantly cut expenses related to ingredients."
CUTTING TO THE CHASE Jason Freedman gives advice on how to e-mail busy people: "Make your ask explicit. If you want a meeting, ask for a meeting. Provide some time options and ask for a specified length. If you want an introduction, ask for an introduction. If you're looking for funding, tell him you're currently fund-raising and ask to meet to show him your pitch. Don't be sly. Don't hint. Make the process ridiculously easy by just asking for what you want."
GOING ZEN Mark McGuinness explains how the Buddha solved his marketing problems: "A classic marketing mistake is to look for everyone who could benefit from your product, service or message, and try to persuade them of its value. If we follow the Buddha's example and focus on the people who actively want what we're offering (not just the ones who need it), we'll have a much smaller potential audience - but a much better chance of a positive response."
THIS WEEK'S QUESTION How do you get a busy person's attention?
Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

        
This Week in Small Business: Get Your Party Hats On!
        
This Week in Small Business: Profiting From Osama, Dealing With the Dollar
        
This Week in Small Business: The Shutdown and the Showdown
        
This Week in Small Business: Democrats and Republicans Talk
        
This Week in Small Business: We're Watching Japan, Libya and Hugo Chavez

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); DEBT CEILING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); BUILDING PERMITS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); EXISTING HOME SALES (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) economy; Small Business; dashboard

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); VISTAPRINT NV (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); VPRT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (50%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



756 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: A New York City 'Living Wage'?

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: An economist explores the debate over a proposal for a minimum wage of $10 an hour on all large projects that receive public subsidies.

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
New York City spends more than $2 billion a year on efforts to promote economic development, but the benefits flow more to developers than to workers. Why not follow the example of some other big cities, including Los Angeles, and require large city-subsidized projects to pay a "living wage"?
I happened to be in New York on May 12, when the City Council held public hearings on proposed legislation along these lines, requiring recipients of more than $100,000 in financial assistance to pay all their employees either $10 an hour plus health benefits or $11.50 a hour without benefits.
Mayor Bloomberg opposes the legislation and questions whether the City Council has the authority to legislate wage standards.
I hustled down to City Hall, notebook in hand, to watch a vivid political drama unfold.
About an hour and a half into the meeting, a sizable rally in support of the proposal was under way out front and the council was hearing testimony both pro and con, peppering the participants with questions. Councilwoman Letitia James cheerfully enforced strict time limits.
The crowd spilled over into two waiting rooms with audio feeds. On this warm spring day, some people in the crowd brandished cardboard fans printed with www.livingwagenyc.org and a quotation from Martin Luther King Jr.The initial focus of debate was a preliminary report by economic consultants hired by the New York City Economic Development Corporation, asserting that a proposed living-wage standard would dampen job creation, hurting those it was intended to help.
The preliminary report had garnered substantial publicity, but 13 experts had issued an analysis asserting that the report relied on incorrect assumptions about how many workers would be affected, failed to analyze appropriate case studies and employed flawed methodology.
Prof. Stephanie Luce of the City University of New York, among others, came in person to make this case.
Donald Spivack, a former deputy chief of operations and policy at the Los Angeles Redevelopment Agency, emphasized the positive economic effects of living-wage legislation implemented there and parried some tough cross-examination by Council members.
As several advocates for the legislation pointed out, when work doesn't pay, taxpayers do - low-wage workers are often forced to rely on public assistance in the form of food stamps or Medicaid.
James Parrott of the Fiscal Policy Institute testified that real wages for low-wage workers in the city have declined substantially over the last 20 years, despite dramatic increases in educational attainment. An institute report noted that business tax subsidies have grown two and a half times faster than overall New York City tax collections and asks why these public resources are invested in poverty-level jobs.
A related study of discretionary economic development subsidies examines specific projects that have relied heavily on low-wage employment, including the Bronx Gateway Mall, a Fresh Direct warehouse and Yankee Stadium.
Mr. Parrott testified that income inequality in New York City exceeds that of other large cities, with the highest-earning 1 percent receiving 44 percent of all income.
The activists at the meeting put some life into the numbers. A woman who said she was a cashier at a McDonald's in Times Square described winning a prize for her good performance rating -- but earning only a "rising star" T-shirt for her efforts. Others pointed to specific projects in the city that have paid a living wage, to good effect.
"I'm not in agreement that higher wages create an obstacle," one worker said, "I think they create an opportunity."
Other witnesses at the hearing explained their opposition. Representatives from the New York Nightlife Association and the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums worried that some of their members renting space from subsidized projects might be affected in ways that would cause hardship.
Several City Council members who support the living-wage legislation expressed concern about this possibility and said they wanted to work out details to minimize such problems. As Councilwoman James put it: "This living wage - it's a work in progress."
According to a recent Baruch College survey, 78 percent of New Yorkers want to progress in this direction.

        
Along the Minimum-Wage Battle Front 
        
The Minimum Wage and Teenage Jobs
        
New Keynesian Economics Misses the Point, for Now
        
Super Sad True Jobs Story 
        
How Worrisome Is Student Debt?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); CITIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LIVING WAGE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); MEDICAID (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (76%); MAYORS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); WITNESSES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); CASE STUDIES (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%) Daily Economist; economic development; employment; food stamps; living; Medicaid; minimum wage; Nancy Folbre; wages; Labor and Jobs; Law and Legislation; Wages and Salaries; City Council (NYC); New York City

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%) City Council (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



757 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Supercore! (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: No case for raising rates on either side of the Atlantic.

 BODY:
Two questions about inflation:
1. What would the ECB be doing if it were the Fed?2. Why have some measures of US core inflation ticked up slightly recently?
On the first question, Eurostat offers us a consumer price index sans energy, food, and tobacco, which is more or less US-style core. Here's what the 12-month change looks like:
The eurozone looks like the United States -- there is no good reason to raise rates. To be fair, on the labor side things look a bit different: there are actual labor shortages in some parts of Europe, reflecting both low labor mobility and the extreme asymmetry of the European shock. But raising rates for all of Europe because parts of Germany are doing well is, as I've written before, worse than the one-size-fits-all policy euroskeptics warned about; it's one size fits one. And the case for a somewhat higher inflation target is even stronger for the euro zone than it is for the US.
Meanwhile, back in the new country: US core inflation has ticked up slightly recently. What's that about?
I've suspected that what we're really seeing is the inadequacy of even core inflation as a way to purge transitory effects of volatile prices: the measure takes out purchases of food and energy, but it doesn't take out indirect effects of raw material prices on costs. New research from Goldman Sachs (no link) seems to support that view: it finds that core inflation is getting a temporary bump from the prices of imported raw materials, and will probably subside if the commodity surge is in fact over.
This in turn suggests that policy should really be based on some kind of "supercore" inflation. Should this simply be wage growth? Adam Posen at the Bank of England has certainly gone well down this route, arguing that the relatively high rate of even core inflation in the UK reflects one-off factors and that stagnant wages show that there are few risks. And I totally agree with Posen about the UK policy issues.
Yet there are problems with a wage target -- mainly, you don't want to base policy on the notion that wage gains are always a bad thing. Maybe adding a trend productivity adjustment would do the trick. More systematic thoughts when I have time.
Anyway, the bottom line for now is that neither the Fed nor the ECB should be at all concerned about inflation. Unfortunately, the ECB is not interested in having its orthodoxy challenged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (70%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



758 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Barclays Capital Hires Former Fed Official

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Brian F. Madigan, who played a leading role in the Fed's emergency lending programs during the financial crisis, will be a senior policy adviser at Barclays Capital.

 BODY:
Brian F. Madigan, a former top official at the Federal Reserve who played a leading role in the emergency lending programs during the financial crisis, has joined Barclays Capital as a senior policy adviser.
Mr. Madigan, 57, will advise the British bank on economic policy and regulation in the United States, according to an internal memo obtained by DealBook. 
The appointment comes as banks face a rush of new regulations in the wake of the crisis. Barclays is one of several firms hiring former regulators to advise on the new rules, stemming from the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law. 
Mr. Madigan retired from the Fed last summer, after a more than 30-year career there. In 2007, Mr. Madigan became the Fed's senior adviser on monetary policy. In that role, he prepared the Federal Open Market Committee's statements and took the minutes during the committee's meetings. 
As head of the Fed's division of monetary affairs during the crisis, Mr. Madigan helped oversee several programs aimed at unlocking the frozen credit markets. 
"His key role in the conduct of U.S. monetary policy in recent years has given him an invaluable perspective that will benefit our research and our clients," Laurence Kantor, the head of research at Barclays, said in the memo. 
Mr. Madigan is the latest former Fed official to join Barclays Capital in recent years. The bank's top United States economist, Dean Maki, was a senior economist at the Fed for several years. 
Barclays last year also hired its senior economist, Troy Davig, who had been an assistant vice president at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City since 2005, and Michael Gapen, who was a section chief at the Fed. 
Mr. Madigan, who came out of retirement to fill the policy job at Barclays, will be based in New York.

        
Why the Lehman Case Was Special
        
Del Monte Ruling Challenges Cozy Bids

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%) Barclays; Barclays Capital; Brian Madigan; Federal Reserve; Appointments and Executive Changes; Barclays PLC; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Revolving Door

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%) Barclays PLC

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



759 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: How an Inquiry of Goldman Sachs Might Play Out

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: If Goldman Sachs receives subpoenas from the Justice Department, it could be a sign that the firm could face a sweeping criminal investigation of its mortgage securities operations.

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs has already received subpoenas from unnamed regulators investigating its mortgage securities operations. Now, federal prosecutors appear to be interested in those operations as well, and subpoenas could follow. 
If so, this would signal a new and potentially more threatening inquiry into its conduct during the financial crisis.
Goldman paid $550 million last year to settle civil charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission over its structuring of a collateralized debt obligation known as Abacus that regulators said was designed to fail. But the size of that settlement may pale in comparison if federal prosecutors find sufficient evidence to pursue criminal charges.
The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations recently sent a referral to the Justice Department about Goldman's conduct, a move that appears to have set the stage for a criminal investigation. The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that Goldman Sachs executives were soon expecting the firm to receive subpoenas. 
Goldman's mortgage securities operation is fairly well-trod ground, having been dissected by the S.E.C., the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission and Congress over the last two years. The firm has produced millions of pages of documents in connection with these earlier investigations, so it is not clear what is left to be learned about its conduct. 
If Goldman does receive Justice Department subpoenas, that would indicate that prosecutors have found enough information about potential criminal conduct in the subcommittee's report -- and perhaps elsewhere -- to take the case to the next level by requiring the production of even more documents. 
Subpoenas alone would not mean that the Justice Department is poised to file any charges against Goldman or its executives, but the specter of the agency taking such action would certainly weigh on the firm. 
While an inquiry could end once the firm responded to any subpoenas, here are some thoughts on how an investigation of Goldman may develop.
Who Would Be in Charge?
The first question that would be answered from a subpoena is which office in the Justice Department would conduct a grand jury investigation. The subcommittee's referral was sent directly to the attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., and he would determine who in the Justice Department would be responsible for the case.
Two likely candidates are the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and the Justice Department's Fraud Section, which is based in Washington. 
Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, is currently riding high after the conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, the head of the Galleon Group hedge fund, for insider trading, and his office is generally viewed as pre-eminent in securities fraud prosecutions. 
Goldman's headquarters is in New York, so it would be logical for the United States attorney's office there to investigate the firm's actions. On the other hand, any wide-ranging investigation of Goldman would demand significant resources, and there is the possibility that the United States attorney's office would not handle the case on its own, given its continuing insider trading prosecutions and investigations related to expert networks, which are also demanding attention.
A potential hurdle to conducting the investigation in New York is that one area of inquiry may concern whether Goldman's officers, including the firm's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, testified truthfully before the Senate Permanent Investigations subcommittee about the firm's mortgage securities operation. 
Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, the subcommittee's Democratic chairman, has said he believes the witnesses from Goldman were misleading in their testimony.
The testimony took place before the subcommittee in Washington, so that would be the only jurisdiction in which the federal court would have venue for any prosecution for perjury or making a false statement to Congress.
Who conducts a Justice Department investigation may also indicate the type of charges being considered. If federal prosecutors were to use a grand jury in Washington, then the more likely focus would be on possible perjury charges and perhaps false filings by Goldman with the S.E.C. A New York grand jury, on the other hand, would be more likely to investigate Goldman's mortgage securities transactions, which largely originated there.
What Would Subpoenas Seek?
The first step in any fraud investigation is to gather as much evidence as possible that can be used to establish criminal intent. A violation of the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws requires the government to prove the defendant acted "willfully," so while there is rarely a dispute about what happened, the crucial issue is almost always about what the parties intended.
It is not clear what documents Goldman has that it did not produce to the government in the earlier investigations. Prosecutors would be expected to seek e-mails, text messages and any recorded conversations that have not been turned over because they could reveal what employees were discussing in structuring transactions and dealing with other parties, an important component to proving fraudulent intent.
The next phase of an investigation, if it were to reach this point, would be to call witnesses to the grand jury if prosecutors believed the documents and other evidence produced by Goldman furnished a foundation for proving criminal violations. While records are often crucial to providing the structure for any prosecution, live witnesses are needed to bring a case to life.
And this would be where the major sticking point is likely to be. The greatest challenge to pursuing any prosecution of Goldman and its officers related to its mortgage operation would be proving intent to defraud, if the case involves mortgage securities sales to clients, or intent to mislead Congress, if a perjury or false statement case is under consideration. 
Establishing that Goldman committed any crime would be based on the knowledge and intent of all of its employees, which can be aggregated into the collective knowledge of the organization. But it would be crucial, in my opinion, for prosecutors to identify culpable individuals within the firm to show that they acted to benefit Goldman so that the firm could be held responsible.
To make a criminal case out of the mortgage activities, prosecutors would need at least one credible witness from inside the firm to point the finger at Goldman and its executives to show the company's culpability, proving that it was more than just a sharp operator. 
An earlier case against two Bear Stearns hedge fund managers for securities fraud related to the collapse of the mortgage-backed securities market, which ended in their acquittal, foundered in large part because prosecutors relied exclusively on e-mails to prove the fraud, with no witnesses to testify about the managers' intent.
It would be almost impossible to successfully prosecute Goldman or any officers based on hostile witnesses from the firm, especially when e-mails and internal communications can be subjected to conflicting interpretations. Typical of most white-collar prosecutions, the government would need to build a case against lower-level employees in the hope they could provide incriminating testimony about their superiors. 
If the S.E.C.'s continuing civil fraud case against a Goldman employee, Fabrice Tourre, arising from the Abacus C.D.O. deal, is any indication of how hard individual employees will fight charges, the Justice Department may have a difficult time lining up witnesses against senior officers to make a criminal case.
Is Goldman Too Big to Charge?
Any criminal charges against Goldman for securities fraud would be likely to jeopardize its continuing operations. The S.E.C.'s securities fraud case against the firm, filed in April 2010, involved only civil charges, yet the company's stock price slumped significantly. The Wall Street Journal's article on Friday about the potential Justice Department subpoenas also had a negative impact on the firm's stock, so imagine what any actual criminal charges might do to it.
The so-called Arthur Andersen effect will be on the minds of prosecutors if the investigation were ever to reach the point of possible criminal charges against the firm. There would be concern, much like after the accounting firm Arthur Andersen was convicted for its role in the Enron scandal, that a case against Goldman could put the jobs of innocent employees at risk and cause substantial losses for investors who had nothing to do with any possible misconduct in the firm's mortgage operation. 
The device most commonly used these days to deal with corporate criminal liability is a deferred prosecution agreement, under which a company admits that violations occurred but any charges are dismissed once it completes the conditions of the agreement, like adopting internal reforms and appointing an outside monitor. 
Whether that would satisfy prosecutors, who are under pressure to pursue criminal charges against Wall Street for the financial crisis, or be acceptable to Goldman, which has resisted all claims that it acted improperly, is very much an open question. Indeed, even thinking about a possible criminal case at this point is getting far ahead of where things stand. Yet if Goldman does receive grand jury subpoenas, I think they will reflect the Justice Department's interest in conducting a fairly broad inquiry of the firm's conduct during the financial crisis and its aftermath. 
It is unlikely there is a "smoking gun" document out there waiting to be discovered, given how many other agencies have rummaged through Goldman's records. 
But if prosecutors can identify individuals whose conduct comes close to the line of securities fraud, then they may well turn up the heat on them to see if a case can be built against senior management and the firm itself. For those looking for a quick decision, however, that is unlikely to be forthcoming.

        
Goldman Shares Dive on Inquiries and Downgrades
        
Fabrice Tourre Denies S.E.C.'s Fraud Charges

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (96%); SUBPOENAS (96%); INVESTIGATIONS (93%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (92%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Abacus; Goldman Sachs; Justice Department; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Bharara, Preet; Holder, Eric H Jr; Collateralized Debt Obligations; Securities and Commodities Violations; Subpoenas; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Justice Department

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (73%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (56%) Bharara, Preet; Holder, Eric H Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



760 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Floyd Norris)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: CIVETS, BRICs and JUUGs

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Did you make money on BRICs? Then maybe you will love CIVETS.

 BODY:
Investors loved BRICs. Will they be equally fond of CIVETS?
In late 2003, Goldman Sachs coined the term BRIC, standing for Brazil, Russia, India and China. They were to be the great new economies and places to invest.
Now I see that HSBC is proudly announcing "the first CIVETS fund."
CIVETS stands for Columbia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey and South Africa. The term is variously credited to the Economist and to HSBC. One factor in choosing the countries is that they have young, growing populations, something the developed world lacks.
Maybe it should be called the ITS fund, with a CEV adjunct. Indonesia, Turkey and South Africa will each get a quarter of the money, based on initial plans. Columbia will get 16 percent, Egypt, 7.5 percent and Vietnam just 1.5 percent. (It sort of makes you wonder if Vietnam was added to provide a needed letter.)
The fund managers plan to give themselves maximum discretion. They may, or may not, decide to put up to a quarter of the money in stocks from "non-CIVETS nations which have similarly attractive demographics, such as Mexico, Nigeria, Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia."
How, you may wonder, have those baskets done? And how have they fared against what I will call the JUUG markets (Japan, United States, United Kingdom and Germany)?Using the CIVETS weights in the news release, and weighting each of the others equally among the four countries, the above chart shows the results for two periods. The first is from the end of 2003, when the BRIC term was spreading, to the end of 2007, the year stock markets peaked. The second is from the end of 2007 through today. In each case, one leading market average was used for each country. The figures are calculated in dollars and come from Bloomberg.In the first period, the CIVETS stocks performed almost as well as the BRICs. Both left the JUUGs in the dust. Since then, however, nobody has done much. CIVETS are up as a group because Columbia has leaped 77 percent and Indonesia 23 percent. But Egypt and Vietnam are down nearly half (Egypt) or almost two-thirds (Vietnam).
The lesson here may be that it matters when you latch onto a theory, and that chasing performance is dangerous. Since the end of 2007, the United States -- that boring aging country -- has done less bad (down 10 percent) than all but four of the countries in the emerging markets groups. In addition to Egypt and Vietnam, the better performers are Brazil, up 6 percent, and South Africa, up 5 percent.
By the way, CIVETS is not to be confused with civets. According to an article in The Times last year, civets provide coffee beans that are cherished by some connoisseurs:Costing hundreds of dollars a pound, these beans are found in the droppings of the civet, a nocturnal, furry, long-tailed catlike animal that prowls Southeast Asia's coffee-growing lands for the tastiest, ripest coffee cherries. The civet eventually excretes the hard, indigestible innards of the fruit -- essentially, incipient coffee beans -- though only after they have been fermented in the animal's stomach acids and enzymes to produce a brew described as smooth, chocolaty and devoid of any bitter aftertaste.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BRIC COUNTRIES (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BRICS COUNTRIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%) Asset Allocation (Personal Finances); BRICS Group; stock market; Markets

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: BRICS Group

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (95%); INDONESIA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NIGERIA (78%); JAPAN (74%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



761 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Mark Bittman)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Letters, We Get Letters

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Reader responses from the author's recent piece on enlightened cafeteria cuisine. 

 BODY:
Here are some selected comments from The Future of Cafeteria Food, with replies from me when it seems appropriate.
-- Veronica from Virgina writes: 
Your point that using real food (not "value-added junk") takes a little more time to prepare is spot on, and to me one of the undermentioned reasons for obesity in this country. If you are working two and even three jobs to put food on the table, you don't have a lot of time to devote to cooking. That McDonald's drive-"thru" is fast and easy and a way to get some food into your belly.
Economically challenged often means time-challenged as well.
--
Marco from Paris writes: 
Here in France, public schools all provide cafeteria lunches for kids - lunches not allowed. They never see fries or hamburgers, chips or coke. Meals are typically fish/meat, vegetables, fruit, bread and cheese/ yoghurt. The menus are posted on-line weeks in advance for all parents to see. Kids learn to eat and enjoy good food this way - we're from Canada, and appreciate this approach to school time lunch. The only problems is the 2 hour lunch breaks they all have, forcing kids into long school days (8:30 AM to 5PM sometimes).
Mark Bittman: Lucky you! (And it hardly seems awful to have the kids out of the house all day...)
--
G. Morris from N.Y. and N.J. writes:
1. Many schools, most often elementary, do not have full-service kitchens. They are only equipped with warming trays,etc. The food arrives frozen and very often it does not defrost in time to be edible. The state education department needs to have guidelines that mandate full service kitchens with ample ovens, refrigerator and dishwashing stations to prepare meals from soup to nuts.
2. Schools use third-party contractors to provide meals. These contracts usually go to the lowest bidder. Thus, we have the endless array of molten carbs.
3. The current modus operandi is penny wise and pound foolish.
4. We need to bring back an updated version of Home Ec. and expand science classes to include food science.
5. Cafeterias are poorly designed. They need better acoustics, lighting and seating. The most current design feels and sounds like a prison. Round tables, mostly chairs, a little variety of seating and more natural lighting would help to create a more calming environment. I know the janitorial staff will howl but the schools are built for students.
--
SueandEric of Cape Cod, Mass., writes:
Dear Mark B,
I must take issue with your assertion that eating a cheese sandwich does no one any good. The animal not factory grown and killed is certainly better off. Cheese is also one of man's most delicious creations.
Cheers from a cheeseatarian.
MB: Obviously I have nothing against cheese but as a substitute for meat it's roughly equivalent. My point is that vegetarianism is not necessarily "healthier" than omnivorism unless you increase your intake of plants rather than simply swapping one animal product for another.
--
arydberg from Charlestown, R.I., writes:
In your list of cafeterias to avoid please include those at senior centers around the country that serve FDA food including artificially sweetened diet deserts without telling the recipients that they are getting diet food.
MB: This is the second time this week this has been pointed out to me, and I'm going to look into it.
--
an observer from Atlanta, Ga., writes:
Based on recent articles in NYT, the answer is simple: Feed the kids in public school the same food that kids in private school get.
--
DJ from Baltimore writes:
Anyone concerned about cafeteria food must see Richard Chisolm's brilliant documentary "Cafeteria Man," which debuted at the Maryland Film Festival last Sunday, about a revolutionary food movement in Baltimore schools. A small group of students demanded better food in school, and New Orleans chef Tony Geraci set about showing kids how to grow and prepare food. In the process these inner city kids experience something far greater than just a tastier lunch. An inspiring story that shows how change really can happen and doesn't have to cost more than we are paying now for truly bad food in schools.
--
Fumi from New York, N.Y., writes:
Hi Mark,
I was wondering if you had seen the "Table For Two" (TFT) meals on your visit to University of San Francisco? TFT is an innovative program that tries to simultaneously tackle malnutrition in sub-Saharan Africa and obesity in the U.S. by effectively transferring excess calories from the U.S. to people who really need the calories. TFT does this by serving TFT-branded meals at food establishments (like the cafe at USF), with 25 cents from the proceeds going to a school meal program in Africa.
Please check out TFT's website at: http://www.tablefor2.org/tft_usa/
--
Jocelyn McFaul from Los Angeles writes:
Hey Mark,
Less than 4 days ago I just started working for one of the Big Three food service companies at a large campus. First night home I devised a Greens & Grains (& not lettuce!) program for the university students. Directors loved it but stated the students really wanted the higher protein & carb diets for now. O.K., so I will keep trying. Thank you for your article. I will post it in the hallway bulletin boards.
MB: Nice work!
--
severed2009 from Cornwall, Conn., writes:
There is no cafeteria food like school cafeteria food for children and adolescents. The public school cafeteria has long been a dumping ground for our agricultural surpluses. Jamie Oliver's Food Revolution attacks this problem head-on, which puts it in the running as the most radically anti-establishment series ever shown on network television. Instead of flitting from expose to expose, it stays on one subject and thus shows how difficult it is to get change off the ground. It is both absurd and thought-provoking that a somewhat tacky reality show is the most uncompromisingly radical thing on right now. But its share is not good enough and it is being moved to the time slot where shows go to die. It deserves better...much better.
--
Jeremey from Atlanta, Ga., writes:
I am a high school teacher and am daily dismayed by the low quality of food we serve in our school. I walk past the cafeteria every day and the menu boards look more as if I am at the ballpark. We have three lines with pizza everyday! A major "reason" given for the dismal quality of food is that the kids won't eat anything else. Why do they get a choice?! When I was growing up (I'm 37) I ate what was prepared or I didn't eat; no chicken fingers for me. We also need to get rid of the flavored milk. Good food is not hard, nor need it be expensive. It just takes a little forethought and effort.
--
RWNorman from Silver Spring, Md., writes:
Hey, Mark, how about checking out some food service providers on military bases and encampments in Iraq and Afghanistan?
You know, besides the idea of the U.S. using mercenaries I've felt that this outside contracting to supply food service to our military men and women was a real fiasco. I'm not in the service now, but when I was my days of KP were actually the fun part of the job. In fact, I was more often called upon to man the flat iron than peel potatoes. But the thing I found out was just how much these guys really paid attention to providing food for THEIR BOYS.
They would get to know who liked what, and on days when that menu came up, perhaps just a little extra was available on your plate. Conversations were always about home and family, about the favorite football or baseball team, or that girlfriend left behind.
I can't imagine that such is the case today when the soldiers would have to fight to protect the contractors as opposed to our servicemen providing food services and yet fighting when necessary.
Now maybe I'm just on a rant here, but I think we lost a lot by deciding to contract our the normal functions of the military to outside companies. Particularly when you think about KBR providing unfit drinking water to our troops in Iraq because they were using old oil tankers without cleaning them.
An American soldier would never do that.
An American soldier used to go into the service, do what they were supposed to do, but along the way they came out with a craft they could employ in civilian life. If all you do is go in to fight all you know is fighting when you get out.
Now I realize this isn't exactly about your column, but somewhat it is. The concept of food service, whether commercialized or institutionalized, does require some investigation and where product is of sufficient quality, such as you have pinpointed, then fine. But we don't know the supply lines, we don't have any idea of the hit the ecology takes from centralized storage and shipping, and we're pretty certain that local products aren't being used.
Honestly I gave up on any outside food services. My parents love a particular country wide chain, but I can't stand having family parties there. The food isn't food. It looks like food, but nah, not really. I haven't had a fast food hamburger in probably 15 years. I don't go to almost any restaurants anymore because I can cook better than anywhere I had gone.
And I believe I gained that capability when I found out how much I enjoyed cooking in the military. And whilst food cafeterias may well be employing people, which is good in today's economy, I still wonder where they get their food, who chooses the products, who decides just how to cook it to mass perfection, who does internal inspections and a whole raft of other questions.
So I guess I'll just keep on cooking for my family and if we want to go out, we'll go to the park or something.
Roger W. Norman

        
Back to Cooking...Sort Of
        
Good Eats in Paris
        
Another Great Way to Cook Fish
        
More on Budget Cuts, Hunger and Poverty
        
The Fasting Experience

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); OBESITY (73%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (58%) Cafeterias; Food; health; Bon Appetit

ORGANIZATION: Bon Appetit

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



762 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Community Banks Lobby to Limit New Regulations

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The anxious community banking industry says new rules under the Dodd-Frank law could hurt their bottom line and even cause a few banks to fail.

 BODY:
Network television ads appearing in the Washington area feature an anxious woman who cautions that "community banks and credit unions will be squeezed" by "bad" regulation.
Subway cars serving suburban Virginia carry similar warnings, while Capitol Hill newspapers have run ads from small banks that show an empty pocketbook alongside an alarming notice that "Washington is helping you clean out your wallet."
The message is clear: lawmakers and regulators should tread lightly on small banks.
In recent months, the community banking industry has started an aggressive grassroots campaign, taking aim at regulation enacted in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Small banks fear new rules under the Dodd-Frank law, especially certain consumer protection provisions and debit card fee restrictions, could hurt their bottom line and even cause a few banks to fail. The Independent Community Bankers of America, an industry trade group, spent roughly $1.2 million lobbying regulators and lawmakers in the first quarter of 2011, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
But the regulation may not be as burdensome as the advertising campaign - or the lobbying dollars - implies. Community banks and credit unions won exemptions from several of the law's toughest provisions, and some of the rules put small banks on more equal footing with big banks.
"There is basic human anxiety about change," said Neal S. Wolin, deputy secretary of the Treasury.
"If you sit down with 20 small banks, you'll find there's a lot of anxiety there," he said. "But if you ask them to focus that criticism in concrete ways, there's not much there."
Mr. Wolin and other regulators are increasing their efforts to win over the community banking industry, holding private meetings with bankers and delivering public speeches across the country. Nearly every top financial regulator traveled to San Diego in March to speak at the community banking group's annual convention. This month, at the group's policy meeting in Washington, Mr. Wolin said that regulators will not "hurt small banks or prevent them from doing their job."
But not everyone is persuaded.
"We got a lot good things, but it's hard to say Dodd-Frank is a total win when you come away bloodied and bandaged," said Salvatore Marranca, a former federal banking regulator who is now president and chief executive of Cattaraugus County Bank, a company with 65 employees in Little Valley, N.Y., about 60 miles south of Buffalo.
Despite their protestations, community bankers are quick to praise certain parts of the law. Banks that hold less than $10 billion in assets, or roughly 98 percent of the 7,000 community banks scattered across the country, are immune from new capital and liquidity requirements, for example.
The law also imposes curbs on proprietary trading and the derivatives business, restrictions that level the playing field for small lenders competing against giant competitors. But small banks perhaps benefited most from the overhaul of deposit insurance rules. The change, which forces large risk-taking banks to pay a bigger share of deposit insurance premiums, is expected to save small banks more than $4 billion over the next three years, according to Camden Fine, who leads the community bankers group.
"The legislation was a very mixed bag for community banks," Mr. Fine said. "There were some good provisions; some provisions will have a horrendous impact if we can't get them changed."
Mr. Fine and his constituents are now focusing on a rule that restricts the fees banks charge grocery stores and other retailers each time a customer uses a debit card. The Federal Reserve has proposed capping the so-called swipe fee at 12 cents for each transaction, 70 percent below the average fee charged in 2009.
Although Dodd-Frank excused community banks from the rules, Mr. Fine says the exemption is "worthless" because retailers could refuse to accept cards issued by small banks that carry higher fees. It is a concern shared by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Fed.
"It is possible that the exemption will not be effective in the marketplace," Mr. Bernanke said in recent Congressional testimony, adding that the rule "could result in some smaller banks being less profitable or even failing."
In an effort to block the rule, the industry is mobilizing lobbyists and bankers to write letters and meet with regulators. Mr. Fine's group and other small banking and credit union lobbyists have held at least 10 meetings with top Fed officials in the last year. They also are appealing to Congress, where some lawmakers have introduced a measure to delay the debit card rule for at least 15 months.
"They have the political power to push back, and they're taking advantage of it," said Jaret Seiberg, a financial policy analyst at MF Global's Washington Research Group.
The industry is also pushing the new consumer agency to shield small banks from mortgage and credit card rules. While the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is not allowed to inspect or bring enforcement actions against small banks, the industry is subject to the bureau's regulations.
"That is causing a lot of anxiety," Mr. Fine said, noting that bankers are taking their concerns directly to the agency.
Community bankers from all 50 states have held discussions with Elizabeth Warren, who is setting up the new bureau. Ms. Warren, who met with more than 60 small bank and credit union executives in March alone, has assured the industry that she will keep them involved in the rule-writing process. In a show of good will, a group of community bankers was recently invited to the first public showing of the agency's new streamlined mortgage disclosure forms.
"I want to see the business model that they have flourish," Ms. Warren said. "I want to see it succeed big time."

        
Treasury Urges Small Banks to Embrace Dodd-Frank
        
Is Consumer Panel Arbitrarily Funded?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY BANKS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); LOBBYING (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CREDIT UNIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (79%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); DEBIT CARDS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Ben Bernanke; Camden Fine; Cattaraugus County Bank; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; debit cards; Dodd-Frank Act; Elizabeth Warren; Federal Reserve; Independent Community Bankers of America; Neal S. Wolin; Salvatore Marranca; Banking and Financial Institutions; Deposit Insurance; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (55%) Independent Community Bankers of America

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



763 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: What's Up With the Jews?

BYLINE: STANLEY FISH


HIGHLIGHT: Recent events have proven that historical attitudes about Jews, especially negative ones, continue to flourish.

 BODY:
It's been an interesting week or two for Jews. Mel Gibson's new film, "The Beaver," opens nationwide in theaters and Jews must decide whether to pay good money to see a movie starring someone whose father is a Holocaust denier, and who has himself vilified Jews in public. In Cannes, the Danish movie director Lars von Trier rambles on at a press conference about sympathizing with Hitler, being annoyed with Israel and admiring Hitler's architect, Albert Speer. Next day he recants, but it's too late; he's declared persona non grata at the film festival.
Then there is Dominique Strauss-Kahn, a French economist and politician who was poised to become France's first Jewish president, imprisoned at Rikers Island after being accused of forcing sex on a chambermaid at a New York hotel. (Strauss-Kahn has now moved to a very constrained "house arrest" while awaiting arraignment, if he can find a house.) Meanwhile, on May 11 this newspaper publishes the results of a Pew Forum study that shows 67 percent of Reform Jewish households in the United States making more than $75,000 a year; only 31 percent of all households hit the same mark. Then there are a few older stories that linger on and add to the mix. Designer John Galliano is facing trial in France and has been fired by Dior because, in the course of a drunken rant in a bar, he said to someone (who was not in fact Jewish) "I love Hitler and people like you would be dead." Bad-boy Charlie Sheen abused various substances, cavorted with assorted women and trashed hotel-rooms for years and nothing much was done about it until he spewed anti-Semitic remarks in the direction of the Jewish producer of his hit TV show "Two and a Half Men." In a short time he was fired and his role has been given to Ashton Kutcher, raised Catholic, but now heavily into Judaism and Kabala.
And of course there is the story that will live forever, even after its protagonist dies, the story of Bernie Madoff (a Strauss-Kahn lookalike, or is it the other way around?) who perpetrated the biggest scam in history (will he replace Meyer Lansky as the chief exhibit in the bad-guy Jewish Hall of Fame?) and ruined thousands of people, many of them fellow Jews.
The thing about these stories is that they all point in (at least) two directions. Sheen, Gibson, Galliano and Von Trier have paid dearly for their transgression against Jews; but that fact has also had some muttering on about Jewish power and influence in Hollywood and the arts. ("You can insult any ethnic group and get away with it, except for the Jews.") In the U.S. press and on some of the blogs, Strauss-Kahn is vilified as an elitist misogamist thug, but in France he is thought of as a victim of a political conspiracy and portrayed by some as a modern Alfred Dreyfus brought down just as he was on the brink of ascendancy to a position no Jew has ever attained. 
The statistics that show Jewish households doing really well financially would seem to be good news for the Jewish community, but the Times story about the survey ended up featured on the Web site of Stormfront.org, where it was placed just below an advertisement for the latest David Duke video. The moral Stormfront draws is that "most honest people do not want to live off other people," the latest installment of the very old accusation that Jews are parasitic blood suckers who infest and infect a society. The same thing has been said many times on many white supremacists Web sites about Madoff: "If one studies the history of the Jew, one will see how this race of vagabond parasites takes over a host and bleeds it dry as we are now being bled dry" (Vanguard News Network Forum).
So which is it? Jews are a success story, or Jews are a plague? Don't mess with Jews, or blame Jews for everything in sight the moment you get drunk? Jews are victims (expulsions, pogroms, the Holocaust), or Jews are victimizers (rapacious bankers, shyster lawyers, land-grabbers and ethnic cleansers)? Jews are devils and sub-human vermin (a Nazi trope), or Jews are God's chosen people? 
The answer is all of the above and much more, for, as many before me have observed, the Jew as a cultural/ historical figure is oversaturated, which means that the meanings that accrue to him (or her, but mostly him) are in excess of any empirical record and accumulate like barnacles without any regard for the law of contradiction. Attitudes, especially negative ones, toward Jews flourish whether there are Jews around or not. Anti-Semitism survives in Poland even though most of its Jews have either fled or been killed. There is anti-Semitism in China, but few actual Jews.
An important part of the protean and shape-shifting history of anti-Semitism is illuminated by Matthew Biberman's brilliant book "Masculinity, Anti-Semitism, and Early Modern English Literature." Biberman traces the intertwined careers of two characterizations of the Jew - the Jew as devil, an impossibly strong alien being who blocks and destroys everything that is good, and the Jew as sissy, an effeminate, slight, pasty figure who stays in the background and assimilates, but who, because of his having disappeared into the woodwork, is able to rot it out from within. (This quick summary does not do justice to the richness of Biberman's analysis.) So you can have the fierce barbaric Jew (Israel as the atom-bomb wielding destroyer of Arab armies, at least in 1967) and the insidiously bland Jew, the obsequious figure who, while no one's looking, takes control of everything. That means that whatever a Jew does there are a number of pre-packaged, and often mutually exclusive, narratives in which to place him, and, by and large, they are not positive ones.
And that goes double for the Jewish nation. There is, as everyone knows, an ongoing debate about whether criticism of Israel can be separated from criticism of Jews, that is, from anti-Semitism. (See, for example, the comments on my two previous columns.) But it may be that the figure of the Jew is so highly, and complexly, charged that attempts to detach the political/military strategy of a nation from the ancient, entrenched and multiple images of its inhabitants - this is, after all, the Jewish state - are likely to fail from either direction. Israelis and their supporters will hear in any criticism of policy echoes of the diaspora, the blood-libel, the Protocols of the Elders of Zion and the Third Reich's final solution. Those who offer the criticism can never quite be sure that their distaste for Israel's actions with respect to the Palestinians is entirely innocent of the influence of centuries of vilification. And that seems to be where we are.

        
Is It Good for the Jews?
        
No Disrespect
        
A Matter of Degrees
        
A U.N. Plan for Israel
        
A One-to-Two-State Solution

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM (90%); RELIGION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); HOLOCAUST (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); FESTIVALS (70%); HOUSE ARREST (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); ARRESTS (68%); DISMISSALS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) Anti-Semitism; dominique strauss-kahn; Israel; jews; lars von trier; Jews and Judaism; Stanley Fish

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); BERNARD MADOFF (53%); CHARLIE SHEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



764 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: World Stage Gives Obama an Edge on His Challengers

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Presidents command the largest of stages -- the world -- at precisely the moment that their challengers are purposely going small.

 BODY:
Starting a bid to unseat an incumbent president, as Tim Pawlenty did Monday afternoon, often leads to a comparison between the would-be challenger and the leader of the free world.
And as the former governor of Minnesota found, the contrast is not always a favorable one.
Even as Mr. Pawlenty stood in front of a crowd of about 200 in Des Moines to formally declare his candidacy, the president took the stage before a crowd of more than 25,000 cheering Irish residents on the first leg of a week-long European trip.
Cable news offered a snippet of Mr. Pawlenty's announcement before shifting quickly to Mr. Obama's speech, which was interrupted repeatedly by applause and carried in its entirety. 
The dueling speeches highlighted the political reality that presidents command the world stage at precisely the moment that their challengers purposely scale down their messages to appeal to primary voters in tiny towns in a handful of early-voting states.
And with Mr. Obama, in particular, the speech was a reminder of how his 2008 campaign was able to produce striking images of the candidate in front of tens of thousands of adoring fans. Throughout 2008, Mr. Obama's campaign stage-managed massive rallies that went unmatched by Republicans until the Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, joined the ticket as the vice presidential nominee.
The comparisons between Mr. Obama's speech in Dublin and Mr. Pawlenty's in Iowa were reminiscent of a similar moment in the summer of the last presidential campaign.
Mr. Obama, already drawing huge crowds, staged a campaign tour through Europe, culminating in a speech in Berlin, at the base of the Victory Column in the Tiergarten, before hundreds of thousands of Germans. Networks carried the speech live, with shots of a seemingly endless crowd.
Unable to compete with those images, Senator John McCain of Arizona chose to make fun of his predicament. During Mr. Obama's speech, Mr. McCain visited Schmidt's Restaurant und Sausage Haus in the German Village section of Columbus, Ohio. The restaurant's menu proclaimed its food to be "The Best of the Wurst!"
Such were the size and energy of Mr. Obama's rallies that the campaign managers for Mr. McCain began derisively calling him "The One."
For the current crop of Republicans hoping to unseat Mr. Obama, the situation is likely to be even more difficult. As president, Mr. Obama is provided numerous opportunities to command attention -- on foreign trips, visits to storm-damaged cities, or announcements of successful military operations.
There are times when the glare can work against a president. One recent example was the split-screen images of Mr. Obama being forced to release his birth certificate even as Donald J. Trump, the real estate mogul and TV celebrity, held an impromptu news conference with reporters in New Hampshire.
But for the most part, Mr. Obama will benefit by having a job that operates on a different scale than that of a presidential challenger.
In Iowa, Mr. Pawlenty invited the direct comparisons by taking on Mr. Obama and his policies in Washington directly.
"President Obama doesn't have an economic plan. He just has a campaign plan. America deserves much better," Mr. Pawlenty declared. "We've tried Barack Obama's way, and his way has failed. Three years into his term, we're no longer just running out of money. We're running out of time."
But in a reminder of the challenges facing a challenger, Mr. Pawlenty's announcement video that was posted Sunday night found itself competing for news coverage with the killer tornadoes that swept through the middle of the country that night.
The Pawlenty story in the St. Paul Pioneer Press ran on the obituary page.

        
Lots of Talk, but Still No 2012 Republican Candidates
        
Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
        
Attacks on Romney Confirm Front-Runner Status
        
The Case for Obama Campaigning as a Foreign Policy President
        
Best Political Quotations of the Weekend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); CELEBRITIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); RESTAURANTS (66%) 2008; barack obama; CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; john mccain; Republicans; speeches; tim pawlenty; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2008; Republican Party; Europe; Iowa; Elections; The 44th President

COMPANY: SCHMIDT'S RESTAURANT & SAUSAGE HAUS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); TIM PAWLENTY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%) Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (72%) IOWA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); IRELAND (72%) Europe; Iowa

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



765 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Best Political Quotes of the Weekend

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: It was a busy weekend, politically speaking. In case you missed some of the best quotes, The Caucus has rounded them up for you.

 BODY:
It was a busy weekend, politically speaking. In case you missed some of the best quotes, The Caucus has rounded them up for you.
1. Newt Gingrich, the former Republican speaker of the House, refused to provide many details about his revolving line of credit at the Tiffany's jewelry store, but declared it "a normal way of doing business." Speaking on CBS's "Face the Nation" program, Mr. Gingrich would not say what jewelry he and his wife, Callista Gingrich, bought with the credit line. But he insisted that its existence did not say anything about how frugal he would be as president. "Go talk to Tiffany's," Mr. Gingrich said. "All I'm telling you is we are very frugal. We in fact live within our budget. We owe nothing. I'm a guy running for president who pays all of his bills in after-tax income at no cost to the taxpayer and who currently owes nothing except one rental property in Wisconsin. I am debt-free."
2. In a speech in New Hampshire, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former Republican governor of Utah, urged politicians to adopt a more civil tone during the debates in Washington. "If we Americans remain civil to each other we can deal with our problems, including the debt crisis that is hanging over us," said Mr. Huntsman, who was in New Hampshire as he decides whether to run for president. "After the shooting in Tucson when Representative Giffords was injured, we talked seriously about civility," he added. "Many Republicans and Democrats even sat together at the State of the Union."
3. Mitch Daniels, the Republican governor of Indiana, said in an e-mail late Saturday night that he would not run for president in 2012. The decision, he said, came after discussions with his family. "What could have been a complicated decision was in the end very simple: on matters affecting us all, our family constitution gives a veto to the women's caucus, and there is no override provision," he wrote. "Simply put, I find myself caught between two duties. I love my country; I love my family more."
4. After Mr. Daniels announced he would sit out the 2012 presidential contest, many top Republicans started getting entreaties to jump into the race. Jeb Bush, the former Republican governor of Florida, was one of them. But in a statement e-mailed to reporters, Mr. Bush, the brother of former President George W. Bush, wrote that "while I am flattered by everyone's encouragement, my decision has not changed. I will not be a candidate for president in 2012."
5. Another former Republican governor, Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, had planned to make his presidential bid formal on Monday. But in a surprise video posted on the Internet Sunday night, he upstaged himself. "We need a president who understands that our problems are deep and who has the courage to face them," Mr. Pawlenty said. "President Obama doesn't. I do."
6. Herman Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, is also running for president, and he insists he is not broke. After a report showed that his political action committee finished the year with just $13 in the bank, Mr. Cain said that account was retired at the end of the year. "The people who are looking at the Hermanator PAC account, that's an inactive account," he said on Fox News Sunday. "We opened up a new one called Friends of Herman Cain, which we will file July 15."

        
Democrats' New Tactic: Praising 2012 Republicans
        
2012 Republicans Embrace Nuclear Power, So Far
        
Obama Strategy: Share Credit (and Blame?)
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Gingrich Event Could Spark New Phase of 2012 Race

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); GOVERNORS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); WOMEN (62%); RENTAL PROPERTY (52%) barack obama; Democrats; Herman Cain; jon huntsman; Mitch Daniels; newt gingrich; Republicans; tim pawlenty; Bush, Jeb; Gingrich, Callista; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; New Hampshire; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); TIM PAWLENTY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JON HUNTSMAN (77%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (57%); HERMAN CAIN (57%) Bush, Jeb; Gingrich, Callista; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (69%) INDIANA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



766 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: In Airline Gift Bags, a Chance to Sell

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE NEGRONI

 BODY:
The little amenity bags given to premium-class travelers hold an oversize importance to the airlines: they not only reflect the airline's brand, but also demonstrate the carriers' high regard for top customers.
Soon, some airlines may even turn the amenity kit into a revenue source by selling them to economy-class passengers.
''The airlines are very interested in co-branding and revenue sharing,'' said Anita Gittelson, the executive vice president for product development at Wessco who is considered the godmother of the modern-day amenity kit. She said she was working with several airlines to offer kits for sale, though no airline said it had immediate plans to do so.
''We're trying to look for ways to give coach class an opportunity to purchase for very little money what business and first class gets for free,'' Ms. Gittelson said. ''Revenue generation and airlines are like two magic words. They need the money.'' 
In the early days of air travel, passengers received tubes of generic toothpaste, vials of perfume and emery boards -- all in miniature sizes. These kits, dating to the 1950s, are now collectible, sold on eBay and other sites. ''Pan Am and TWA were pioneers when it came to in-flight service,'' said Steven Lott, an collector and executive with the Air Transport Association, the airline industry trade group. ''Getting your hands on an amenity kit from the early days of commercial aviation, those are historic mementos.''
Still, those bags, heavy and rigid, bear little resemblance to those handed out today, said Jennifer Coutts Clay, author of the book ''Jetliner Cabins'' (Academy Press, 2004). There's been a transition, she said, to ''synthetic fabrics, eco-fabrics like bamboo tied up with raffia, and now we see airlines providing handy, useful items, not just items that display the airline's own logo.''
Drugstore brand items started appearing in amenity bags in the mid-1980s, but the most transforming change may have occurred in 2000, when Ms. Gittelson persuaded Delta Air Lines to take a chance on Essentiel Elements, an aromatherapy company in California that at the time was little known outside of a few department stores and spas.
When Essentiel Elements products and discount coupons were placed in Delta's amenity kits, sales of the products increased, said Ms. Gittelson, whose company handled the customers' orders. ''It was a marvelous introduction to the public of a brand that was just starting to move,'' and Delta got a commission on the sale, Ms. Gittelson said.
''It was a new revenue stream for Delta,'' said Laura Peck Fennema, who founded Essentiel Elements, ''and it had a very positive impact on our business.'' Ms. Fennema sold the company to Gilchrist & Soames in 2002.
These days, more airlines are doing partnerships. In a press release this month, Davi, a California skin care company, announced a deal with Korean Air, saying it was part of a plan to market products to ''top-class customers worldwide.'' Airlines can get discounts or even free products from manufacturers that want the exposure of being a carrier's chosen brand. ''The airlines have been much more active hunting around for customers, Ms. Coutts Clay said. If an airline ''advertises clearly which ice cream it is using or which coffee, these will be linked to contract deals of some kind or another. That's the way for the business to go.''
Still, while some carriers seek to recoup some of the costs of the kits, other airlines insist the bag is a gift and not a vehicle to sell products.
''We've never seen these as a commercial venture,'' said Robin Padgett, vice president for aircraft catering at Emirates, which produces separate kits for men and women. ''We don't see this as a revenue-generating exercise. It's a customer experience-enhancing exercise.''
Creating a bag that makes an impression takes more than a trip to the drugstore for toothpaste and a zipper pouch, which is why Ms. Gittelson said she looked for little-known boutique products and acted as an arbiter of quality and taste for airlines. She says her job is to know what products will make a passenger feel special as well as effectively plug ears, shade eyes, moisturize skin and eliminate morning breath.
''It has become an art form of sorts,'' Ms. Gittelson said. ''Airlines today will ask their interior designers to work on their kits.''
Part of the challenge is making a bag that is stylish while dealing with the many considerations of working in an environment where weight, size and cost are critical.
''It's always a balancing act between function and design,'' said Michael Bierut, a partner in the New York office of the international design consultant Pentagram, which designed the amenity kits, cabin interiors and corporate logo for United Airlines.
When the design does not work, it becomes clear right away. Ms. Gittelson said she helped Delta create an amenity box that was a tin in different shapes, in a vintage aviation motif. The airline soon realized it had made a mistake.
''They were lovely,'' Ms. Coutts Clay said. ''I have a couple in my collection.'' But, she said, ''Where were we supposed to put them? My carry-on bag is pretty full.''
The trend today is for environmentally friendly kits. American Airlines, Aeromexico and Cathay Pacific Airways point out that their bags, which are reusable, contain corn-based toothbrushes and shampoo bottles and bamboo socks.
Still there are those like Bob Lilienfeld, a frequent traveler, environmental activist and author of the book ''Use Less Stuff'' and a blog, who argue that the more earth-friendly action would be to eliminate the bags altogether. ''If I can fly first class somewhere, the odds are good that whatever is in the kit, I already have,'' he said. ''My suspicion is that most ultimately, it gets thrown away.''
That concern is why Cathay is considering offering passengers items from a tray or announcing that amenities are available for those who request them from flight attendants. ''We've asked cabin crew and passengers what they think of that,'' said Alex McGowan, head of product at Cathay.
Alice Liu, the director of onboard products at American, said the company was always re-evaluating what customers found useful. ''We are constantly looking to the customers to see: 'What do you want? What are the things you don't use? We don't want to put more items in a bag that you're not going to utilize.' ''
Amenity kits are a flexible element of premium class travel that allows airlines to keep their image fresh, Mr. Bierut said. ''If they are trying to be hip, they put hip brands in their package,'' he said. ''It's easier than doing any physical capital improvements on the airplane.''
But that is not what makes them so attractive to Mr. Lott, who has 40 kits in his collection. For him, the amenity kit is much more than the sum of its parts.
''It is a piece of history and it's offered on flights all over the world and it is unique to aviation,'' he said. ''It reminds me of the wonderful history and the magic of flying.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The amenity gift bags from Emirates, which produces separate kits for men and women. (B1)
''We've never seen these as a commercial venture,'' said Robin Padgett, vice president for aircraft catering at Emirates.
 In the Bag: Contents of the women's ''amenity bag'' given to first-class passengers on Emirates Airlines. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); BRANDING (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL COUPONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (75%); RETAILERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); WRITERS (63%); FABRICS (62%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (85%); PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



767 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: A Fitting Move For Jimmy Choo

BYLINE: By QUENTIN WEBB and PIERRE BRIANCON

 BODY:
The sale of the luxury shoemaker Jimmy Choo is proof that private equity firms can make things happen. The company's backers have made a stellar return from their investment, in spite of buying the company at the height of the boom. Its new owner -- Labelux, owned by Germany's Reimann family -- may not make as fast a buck. But snapping up the maker of the heels synonymous with the hit show ''Sex and the City'' makes sense as a long-term bet on the Asian luxury market.
TowerBrook Capital Partners is selling Jimmy Choo for an enterprise value of $:500 million to $:550 million ($810 to $890 million), according to news reports. The precise financial terms of the buyout are not clear. But the exit generates a return of more than three times the initial investment. That's not bad for an acquisition made in 2007, a vintage that many buyout firms would rather forget. 
At the top of that range, the deal values Jimmy Choo at about 15.7 times last year's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about $:35 million. That's a reasonable multiple for Labelux to pay. The share price of the Italian shoemaker Tod's equates to an enterprise value of about 13.2 times historic Ebitda.
But that's just a market multiple. Acquisition valuations can be astronomical. Consider the eye-popping 27 times Ebitda that LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton recently offered for a controlling stake in Bulgari. Moreover, Jimmy Choo is growing fast, with Ebitda now running at an annualized $:45 million.
The Reimanns have been steadily accumulating premium and luxury brands. The stable includes Bally shoes, Coty perfume and Zagliani handbags. Jimmy Choo further tilts the portfolio toward luxury, implying a potentially higher rating for the group if it were to be sold.
Labelux can probably reap operational synergies with Jimmy Choo. But the prize lies in further extending the brand beyond shoes, while taking it deep into China. Jimmy Choo has just a toehold there; Bally is in dozens of cities.
It will be hard for Labelux to repeat TowerBrook's quick gain, but Labelux hasn't overpaid and it has a credible strategy. The shoe seems to fit nicely.
Lagarde for I.M.F.?
Speaking fluent English and being European shouldn't be the only two qualities required of a managing director of the International Monetary Fund. Yet some of the I.M.F.'s major shareholders -- many European members, probably the United States and possibly China -- seem to agree that Christine Lagarde should lead the institution now that Dominique Strauss-Kahn has resigned. Yet after four years as French finance minister, it's hard to see what qualifies her for this job, save for the fawning by the international media.
Ignore the fact that there's no reason the job should go to a European in the first place, even if that has been the tradition. The notion of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany that it takes an I.M.F. chief from the euro zone to deal with the region's debt mess can easily be shot down.
A non-European would have an advantage because he or she wouldn't be suspected of being an interested party in the heated debates over Europe's crisis. Sure, Mr. Strauss-Kahn did a stellar job of cajoling the Europeans into action, using the carrot of I.M.F. cash. But that had more to do with his own qualities than his passport.
Let's also forget the not-so-mundane problem that Ms. Lagarde could soon be placed under formal investigation on allegations that she misused her powers to help a friend of President Nicolas Sarkozy of France in a business dispute.
More important is that Ms. Lagarde lacks what is needed for the job. As French finance minister, she can be attached to no single reform, debate, decision or policy. She has done mostly Mr. Sarkozy's bidding. Throughout the debt crisis, she articulated France's position but didn't do much to define it. Finally, she hasn't even been the voice of fiscal discipline, as a finance minister should be in a deficit-prone country. Her voice has barely been heard.
Ms. Lagarde, who has no academic training in economics or finance, doesn't even seem to have a strong set of beliefs. She has mostly been the international face of Mr. Sarkozy's policies, which hasn't prepared her for a job she would get only after high-level diplomatic horse-trading. The I.M.F. needs a leader. She doesn't fit the bill.
QUENTIN WEBB
and PIERRE BRIANCON
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Jimmy Choo display in London. The owner of Bally is buying the brand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON ALDEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); EBITDA (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); BRANDING (63%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (93%); J CHOO LTD (85%); TOWERBROOK CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (58%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (93%); LVMH (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (85%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (85%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (85%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) CHINA (92%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



768 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WORKING FOR LESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: At Well-Paying Law Firms, a Low-Paid Corner

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
WHEELING, W.Va. -- The nation's biggest law firms are creating a second tier of workers, stripping pay and prestige from one of the most coveted jobs in the business world.
Make no mistake: These are full-fledged lawyers, not paralegals, and they do the same work traditional legal associates do. But they earn less than half the pay of their counterparts -- usually around $60,000 -- and they know from the outset they will never make partner.
Some of the lawyers who have taken these new jobs are putting the best face on their reduced status. ''To me there's not much of a difference between what I'm doing now and what I would be doing in a partner-track job,'' said Mark Thompson, 29, who accepted a non-partner-track post at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe when he could not find a traditional associate job. ''I still feel like I'm doing pretty high-level work -- writing briefs, visiting client sites, prepping witnesses for hearings.''
Asked whether he hopes someday to switch onto the partner track, given the higher pay for this same work, he is diplomatic. ''I'm leaving all my possibilities open,'' he said. 
Lawyers like Mr. Thompson are part of a fundamental shift in the 50-year-old business model for big firms.
Besides making less, these associates work fewer hours and travel less than those on the grueling partner track, making these jobs more family-friendly. And this new system probably prevents jobs from going offshore.
But as has been the case in other industries, a two-tier system threatens to breed resentments among workers in both tiers, given disparities in pay and workload expectations. And as these programs expand to more and more firms, they will eliminate many of the lucrative partner-track positions for which law students suffer so much debt.
Mr. Thompson is one of 37 lawyers in Orrick's new program, which is based in this small Rust Belt city an hour southwest of Pittsburgh. An international firm headquartered in San Francisco, Orrick is one of a handful of law firms, including WilmerHale and McDermott Will & Emery, experimenting with ways to control escalating billing rates.
''For a long time the wind was at the back of these big law firms,'' said William D. Henderson, a historian at Indiana University-Bloomington.
''They could grow, expand and raise rates, and clients just went along with absorbing the high overhead and lack of innovation. But eventually clients started to resist, especially when the economy soured.''
For decades, firms used essentially the same model: charging increasingly higher rates for relatively routine work done by junior associates, whose entry-level salaries in major markets have now been bid up to $160,000 (plus bonus, of course), a sum reported by the big law schools. Even under pressure to reduce rates, firms are reluctant to lower starting salaries unilaterally for fear of losing the best talent -- and their reputations.
''Everyone acknowledges that $160,000 is too much, but they don't want to back down because that signals they're just a midmarket firm,'' said Mr. Henderson. ''It's a big game of chicken.''
So now firms are copying some manufacturers -- which have similarly inflexible pay because of union contracts -- by creating a separate class of lower-paid workers.
At law firms, these positions are generally called ''career associates'' or ''permanent associates.'' They pay about $50,000 to $65,000, according to Michael D. Bell, a managing principal at Fronterion, which advises law firms on outsourcing.
These nonglamorous jobs are going to nonglamorous cities.
Orrick moved its back-office operations to a former metal-stamping factory here in 2002, and in late 2009 began hiring career associates. Costs of living are much cheaper in Wheeling than in San Francisco, Tokyo or its 21 other locations, saving $6 million to $10 million annually, according to Will A. Turani, Wheeling's director of operations.
''It's our version of outsourcing,'' said Ralph Baxter, Orrick's chief executive. ''Except we're staying within the United States.''
Similar centers have cropped up in other economically depressed locations. WilmerHale, a 12-office international firm, has ''in-sourced'' work to Dayton, Ohio.
''There's a big, low-cost attorney market there,'' said Scott Green, WilmerHale's executive director. ''That means we can offer our services more efficiently, at lower prices.''
What's good for clients, of course, isn't quite as good for those low-cost lawyers.
Lower salaries make it even more difficult for newly minted lawyers to pay off their law school debt -- like the $150,000 in loans that David Perry accumulated upon graduation from Northwestern University School of Law in 2009.
Mr. Perry, 37, became a career associate at Orrick after unsuccessfully seeking public service work (which would offer the option of loan forgiveness). But he says he loves his ''lifestyle job,'' which enables him to work from home and spend time with his infant son while still doing interesting work.
''I didn't have the strong desire to make loads of cash,'' he said.
Other career associates at Orrick said they too were content, even if this track was not their first choice out of law school.
Heather Boylan Clark, 34, was a seventh-year associate at Jones Day before applying for a career associate position after the birth of her second child. She makes 40 percent less than before, but says she still does ''challenging work,'' and, more important, has greater control of her schedule.
''I'm not killing myself to be hitting specific numbers of billable hours in any given year,'' said Ms. Boylan Clark, a graduate of the University of Virginia School of Law. ''Now I'm always home for bedtime.''
To some extent, firms have been using lawyers off the partner track for years, known as staff attorneys, although usually on an ad-hoc basis. Executives at Orrick were quick to clarify that the new class of career associates should not be confused with such attorneys, and emphasized efforts to make career associates feel valued.
''There are no second-class citizens at Orrick,'' said Mr. Baxter. ''This is a career path for people who want it because they prefer the attributes.''
But while Ms. Boylan Clark and others switched from partner tracks at other firms, Orrick has not encouraged associates on its partner track to switch to career associate out of concern that it would seem like a demotion, according to Laura Saklad, Orrick's chief lawyer development officer.
''That's just about perception, though,'' Ms. Saklad said. ''These are not second-class jobs, but the program is so new that they may be perceived that way.''
Working for Less: This is the first article in a series examining how new workers are being hired at lower pay and benefits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Heather Boylan Clark and Mark Thompson took the nonpartner track at Orrick, earning far less than traditional associates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); PARALEGALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); WITNESSES (77%); FAMILY (72%)

COMPANY: ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE LLP (91%); MCDERMOTT WILL & EMERY LLP (84%); WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WHEELING, WV, USA (89%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); INDIANA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



769 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Community Banks Fret Over Rules

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Network television ads appearing in the Washington area feature an anxious woman who cautions that ''community banks and credit unions will be squeezed'' by ''bad'' regulation.
Subway cars serving suburban Virginia carry similar warnings, while Capitol Hill newspapers have run ads from small banks that show an empty pocketbook alongside an alarming notice that ''Washington is helping you clean out your wallet.''
The message is clear: lawmakers and regulators should tread lightly on small banks. 
In recent months, the community banking industry has started an aggressive grassroots campaign, taking aim at regulation enacted in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Small banks fear new rules under the Dodd-Frank law, especially certain consumer protection provisions and debit card fee restrictions, could hurt their bottom line and even cause a few banks to fail. The Independent Community Bankers of America, an industry trade group, spent roughly $1.2 million lobbying regulators and lawmakers in the first quarter of 2011, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
But the regulation may not be as burdensome as the advertising campaign - or the lobbying dollars - implies. Community banks and credit unions won exemptions from several of the law's toughest provisions, and some of the rules put small banks on more equal footing with big banks.
''There is basic human anxiety about change,'' said Neal S. Wolin, deputy secretary of the Treasury.
''If you sit down with 20 small banks, you'll find there's a lot of anxiety there,'' he said. ''But if you ask them to focus that criticism in concrete ways, there's not much there.''
Mr. Wolin and other regulators are increasing their efforts to win over the community banking industry, holding private meetings with bankers and delivering public speeches across the country. Nearly every top financial regulator traveled to San Diego in March to speak at the community banking group's annual convention. This month, at the group's policy meeting in Washington, Mr. Wolin said that regulators will not ''hurt small banks or prevent them from doing their job.''
But not everyone is persuaded.
''We got a lot good things, but it's hard to say Dodd-Frank is a total win when you come away bloodied and bandaged,'' said Salvatore Marranca, a former federal banking regulator who is now president and chief executive of Cattaraugus County Bank, a company with 65 employees in Little Valley, N.Y., about 60 miles south of Buffalo.
Despite their protestations, community bankers are quick to praise certain parts of the law. Banks that hold less than $10 billion in assets, or roughly 98 percent of the 7,000 community banks scattered across the country, are immune from new capital and liquidity requirements, for example.
The law also imposes curbs on proprietary trading and the derivatives business, restrictions that level the playing field for small lenders competing against giant competitors. But small banks perhaps benefited most from the overhaul of deposit insurance rules. The change, which forces large risk-taking banks to pay a bigger share of deposit insurance premiums, is expected to save small banks more than $4 billion over the next three years, according to Camden Fine, who leads the community bankers group.
''The legislation was a very mixed bag for community banks,'' Mr. Fine said. ''There were some good provisions; some provisions will have a horrendous impact if we can't get them changed.''
Mr. Fine and his constituents are now focusing on a rule that restricts the fees banks charge grocery stores and other retailers each time a customer uses a debit card. The Federal Reserve has proposed capping the so-called swipe fee at 12 cents for each transaction, 70 percent below the average fee charged in 2009.
Although Dodd-Frank excused community banks from the rules, Mr. Fine says the exemption is ''worthless'' because retailers could refuse to accept cards issued by small banks that carry higher fees. It is a concern shared by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Fed.
''It is possible that the exemption will not be effective in the marketplace,'' Mr. Bernanke said in recent Congressional testimony, adding that the rule ''could result in some smaller banks being less profitable or even failing.''
In an effort to block the rule, the industry is mobilizing lobbyists and bankers to write letters and meet with regulators. Mr. Fine's group and other small banking and credit union lobbyists have held at least 10 meetings with top Fed officials in the last year. They also are appealing to Congress, where some lawmakers have introduced a measure to delay the debit card rule for at least 15 months.
''They have the political power to push back, and they're taking advantage of it,'' said Jaret Seiberg, a financial policy analyst at MF Global's Washington Research Group.
The industry is also pushing the new consumer agency to shield small banks from mortgage and credit card rules. While the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is not allowed to inspect or bring enforcement actions against small banks, the industry is subject to the bureau's regulations.
''That is causing a lot of anxiety,'' Mr. Fine said, noting that bankers are taking their concerns directly to the agency.
Community bankers from all 50 states have held discussions with Elizabeth Warren, who is setting up the new bureau. Ms. Warren, who met with more than 60 small bank and credit union executives in March alone, has assured the industry that she will keep them involved in the rule-writing process. In a show of good will, a group of community bankers was recently invited to the first public showing of the agency's new streamlined mortgage disclosure forms.
''I want to see the business model that they have flourish,'' Ms. Warren said. ''I want to see it succeed big time.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Camden Fine, who heads the Independent Community Bankers of America, is concerned about restrictions on debit card fees paid by stores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Neal S. Wolin, deputy secretary of the Treasury, assured small bankers that regulators would not ''prevent them from doing their job.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (79%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



770 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By PETER J. HENNING and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
GOLDMAN INQUIRY Goldman Sachs may receive subpoenas from the Justice Department, and the firm will probably then face a sweeping criminal investigation of its mortgage securities operations. Such subpoenas would indicate that prosecutors have found enough information about potential criminal conduct. 
Subpoenas alone would not mean that the Justice Department is poised to file criminal charges, since the inquiry could end once Goldman responded. But the specter of federal prosecutors taking such action would certainly weigh on the firm. White Collar Watch looks at the possible steps in a Justice Department inquiry.
PETER J. HENNING
FROM H.P. TO K.K.R. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company has hired Marius Haas, left, who was chief of Hewlett-Packard's networking business and was previously chief of mergers and acquisitions at the technology giant, to be an industry adviser to the firm.
Mr. Haas, the firm said in a statement, ''will work closely with the K.K.R. team to identify and pursue new investments, particularly in the technology sector, while supporting existing portfolio companies.'' BARCLAYS BOUND Brian Madigan, a former top Federal Reserve official who played a leading role in the emergency lending programs during the financial crisis, has joined Barclays Capital as a senior policy adviser.
Mr. Madigan, 57, will advise the British bank on economic policy and regulation in the United States, according to an internal memo obtained by DealBook. BEN PROTESS
CITIGROUP'S CATCH Samuel A. DiPiazza Jr., left, a former chief executive of the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, is joining Citigroup as a vice chairman in the institutional clients group.
Mr. DiPiazza served as chief executive of the giant accounting firm from 2002 to 2009. He will be a member of the bank's senior strategic advisory group.
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); SUBPOENAS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MISCONDUCT (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MERGERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (54%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); KKR & CO LP (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); KKR (NYSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



771 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Union Struggle at Target

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
In the world of big-box discounters, Target enjoys a reputation as a model corporate citizen that sells the latest in cheap chic. That's a sharp contrast to the image of Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, which labor unions have pilloried for years, accusing it of providing skimpy wages and benefits and skirting various labor laws.
But the arrows are about to come flying at Target's famous bull's-eye logo. The nation's largest union for retail workers has embarked on its first broad campaign to unionize Target workers.
The union, the United Food and Commercial Workers, is trying to organize 5,000 workers at 27 Target stores in the New York City area. A majority of workers at the Target store in Valley Stream, N.Y., have already signed cards supporting unionization, and a government-supervised election there on June 17 will be the first time in more than two decades that Target workers will vote on whether to join a union. 
''A lot of people are going to be shocked that Target workers would consider unionizing because of its very good image and because it's known as such a fantastic philanthropic organization,'' said Burt Flickinger, a retailing consultant who has worked on projects for both the union and Target suppliers.
The union decided to focus on Target after employees in Valley Stream, on Long Island, asked for help in unionizing. Echoing longstanding complaints by some Wal-Mart workers, the store's employees complained that many of them earned too little to support a family or afford health insurance, forcing some to rely on food stamps and Medicaid for their children.
''What we want from Target is simply this: we need a living wage where we can get by,'' said Sonia Williams, a logistics employee in Valley Stream who said she earns $11.71 an hour, plus a $1-an-hour night differential.
Target says its wages are competitive and its employees do not need a union.
Interviews with 10 of the store's employees suggest that an important issue behind the unionization drive is frustration about being assigned too few hours of work, sometimes just one or two days a week.
Retailers are increasingly assigning such short workweeks as they seek to build an extensive roster of workers to fill their ever-changing scheduling needs. But some Target workers say that means they are offered too few hours to qualify for the company's health plan.
Ms. Williams, who receives $200 a month in food stamps to help her and her 18-year-old son, complained that she was often assigned just three days of work each week, down from full time when she started nearly nine years ago.
So far, the union's organizing efforts have not turned belligerent as it hopes to convince Target employees that it wants to work with the company, not hurt it. In contrast, the union has never been shy about attacking Wal-Mart -- hurling invective, organizing protests and lobbying officials to block the retailer's plans to expand in New York, Chicago and other cities unless it agrees to improve wages and benefits.
Union officials assert that Target's wages and benefits are only slightly better than Wal-Mart's.
Jim Rowader, Target's vice president for employee and labor relations, said the company provided ''great benefits, flexible scheduling and great career opportunities for workers in all stages of life.''
He said Target emphasized building trust between managers and employees. ''When you talk about bringing a union into that mix, certainly based on the culture we have and the one we're trying to build, we don't think a union or any third party will improve on anything,'' he said.
None of Target's 1,755 stores in the United States are unionized, nor are any of Wal-Mart's 4,420 American stores. The union has tried over the last decade to unionize Wal-Marts in Minnesota and Las Vegas and a Target in Minnesota, but fierce antiunion campaigns by the retailers deflated the efforts before they even came to a vote.
Mr. Flickinger said unions had been loath to undertake large-scale organizing drives against retailers, like the new one against Target in New York, because of obstacles like high employee turnover, the fear of some workers that they would be fired for supporting a union and the aggressive opposition by many companies toward unionization.
But Mr. Flickinger said the recession and retailers' increasing use of part-time workers had improved the climate for organizing even though union membership had been sliding and unions were on the defensive nationwide. ''Unions feel it might be the best of times for organizing in retail because many workers can't afford the health benefits and many can't even afford to shop in the stores where they work,'' he said.
Patrick J. O'Neill, the union's organizing director, said it was vital to try to unionize big-box stores. ''Retail is a major employer in our economy,'' he said. ''If we don't want the middle class to go away, we've got to do something about improving the wages and benefits for retail workers.''
About 12 percent of all American workers are unionized, but just 4.7 percent of retail workers are in unions. Kroger is the retailer with the most unionized workers: 200,000.
While the organizing drive is going full tilt in Valley Stream, the United Food and Commercial Workers has just started reaching out to employees at the other New York-area Targets. It is distributing fliers, asking workers to sign pro-union cards, and lining up support from community groups.
Tashawna Green, a stock clerk in Valley Stream, said a union was needed to help increase her pay, $8 an hour after one year there, and her hours, often six to 17 hours a week.
''I just feel that a union is going to help us,'' she said. ''If they ask for better hours, they get better hours. If they ask for respect, they get respect.''
Like many of her co-workers, Ms. Green, 21, a native of Jamaica, hails from the Caribbean, where unions are generally more popular than in the United States.
Ms. Green, the mother of a 5-year-old, said she would like to work four or five days a week, but is often assigned two days and then earns just $120 for the week. ''It's very hard to support yourself on that,'' she said. ''Sometimes I have to borrow money from people.I'm lucky that I'm able to stay with an aunt who understands. I try my best to pay her rent of $200 a month.''
Ms. Green said it was maddening that although many employees were desperate to work more hours, managers ask them whether they have any friends who are looking for jobs. Several workers said they were perplexed that the store hired 13 new workers in recent weeks.
Target defended its compensation and scheduling practices.
''The wages and benefits provided at the store are at or, frankly, above the market for comparable retail jobs, union or nonunion,'' Mr. Rowader said. He said the store's overall payroll hours had not declined, although individuals might be working fewer hours.
In campaigning against the union, Target is also distributing fliers. One says: ''Like any other failing business the union needs to increase revenue to stay in business. Taking dues from new members is the only way for them to get more money.''
Betsy Wilson, who earns $10.50 an hour after working in Valley Stream for two years erecting merchandise displays, opposes having a union -- and the dues payments that would come along with one. ''Basically if you do your job, you won't have any problems,'' she said.
John Budd, a professor of human resources at the University of Minnesota, said the public's ambivalence about unions could play a big role in the outcome of the Target unionization effort.
The workers' call for higher wages may win little support, he said. ''But the public may be much more sympathetic when someone is working just 10 hours a week and is asking for more hours.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aly Waddy, in front, is an organizer with the United Food and Commercial Workers. Sonia Williams, left, a logistics employee at the Target store in Valley Stream, N.Y., and Tashawna Green, a clerk at the store, support the union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Some 5,000 workers at 27 Target stores in the New York area are being urged to join a union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LIVING WAGE (77%); WORK WEEK (77%); MEDICAID (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); CHARITIES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); PHILANTHROPY (51%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



772 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Catholic School in Harlem Is Closing Over Financial Woes

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Rice High School, a Roman Catholic boys' school in Harlem known equally for serious academics and excellent basketball players, announced on Monday that it would shut down at the end of the school year, after 73 years, because of financial difficulties. 
The board of directors voted to close the school after it became clear that it could neither attract enough students to make ends meet nor raise enough money to fill the gap. A statement issued by the board of trustees said, ''The school hung on as long as it could to continue fulfilling its core mission of educating young men.''
Student enrollment at Rice had dropped by 44 percent since 2003. Since such schools get a significant portion of their operating budgets from tuition, and Rice was at half of its capacity, administrators could not make ends meet.
For years, the Christian Brothers, a teaching order dedicated to educating the poor that founded the school, had bridged the gap, providing $100,000 to $300,000 a year. But the head of school, Sister Patricia Ells, said this year that it could no longer do so.
In early April, the chairman of the board of directors, Stephen Fitzgerald, said the school was trying to raise $5 million, in hopes of both erasing its $200,000 deficit and making up for the difference between the $10,000 the school spent on each student and the amount each one paid. The tuition was $5,750 a year, and 70 percent of the students received financial aid.
At its peak, a decade ago, Rice had a $3 million endowment. But almost 40 percent of that was wiped out in the recent financial crisis, Mr. Fitzgerald said. By this year, the endowment had dwindled to $160,000, which was needed for maintenance of the school's building, at 124th Street and Lenox Avenue, which costs about $425,000 annually.
Despite its difficulties, all of Rice's graduating seniors were accepted at colleges this year, Mr. Fitzgerald said. And Kemba Walker, a Rice alumnus, led the University of Connecticut to the N.C.A.A. basketball championship this year.
One student, Devaughn Reid, 17, recalled Mr. Walker embracing the camaraderie of the school. ''He called me his brother twice,'' Devaughn said. ''I'll never forget that.''
But Rice faced a vacuum of leadership, churning through five heads of school in 10 years. ''If you are here long enough, you learn to strive on the concept of struggle,'' Brother William J. Sherlog, a veteran teacher, said in April.
School officials said they would meet with families to try to place students in other high schools by September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); RELIGION (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); ENDOWMENTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



773 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Shares Tumble on Worries Over European Debt

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Sovereign debt concerns and the prospects for slower growth in Europe and Asia took their toll on global markets on Monday, with stocks on Wall Street spiraling more than 1 percent lower on all three major indexes.
Treasury prices and the dollar rose. Asian and European shares were lower after developments in Greece, Spain and Italy refocused attention on the euro zone's fiscal uncertainty. Manufacturing statistics released by Germany and China were softer than forecast, raising the prospect of slower growth in Europe and in China, which has the world's second-largest economy, and unsettling investors.
''It is a bit of a risk-off environment right now,'' said Eric Viloria, senior technical strategist for Forex.com. ''Markets are risk-averse, and the U.S. dollar is benefiting.'' 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 130.78 points, or 1.05 percent, to 12,381.26, its lowest close since April 19. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 15.90 points, or 1.19 percent, at 1,317.37. The Nasdaq was down 44.42 points, or 1.58 percent, at 2,758.90
Materials, energy, industrials, utilities, financials and information technology tumbled by about 1 percent.
Caterpillar fell about 2.34 percent, to $101.89, and General Electric was 1.17 percent lower at $19.39. Energy stocks tumbled, with Halliburton falling 2.16 percent, to $46.16, Exxon Mobil down 1.1 percent at $80.67, and Schlumberger down 1.7 percent at $82.08.
Citigroup was more than 2 percent lower at $40.16, while Bank of America was lower by 1.38 percent at $11.42. JPMorgan Chase fell more than 1.3 percent to $42.55.
In Asia, the Nikkei index fell by more than 1.5 percent and the Hang Seng was down by just over 2 percent. The Shanghai index was lower by 2.9 percent.
In Europe, the CAC 40 closed down by 2.1 percent, the DAX in Germany was 2 percent lower, and the FTSE ended the day down by 1.9 percent.
Analysts said recent news from Europe had not instilled confidence in the Continent's ability to handle its fiscal challenges. Last week, Fitch Ratings downgraded Greece's credit ratings by three levels to B+, a rating that is below investment grade. Standard & Poor's lowered its outlook on Italy's debt to negative from stable over the weekend, citing a weaker outlook for growth and lower prospects for the country's ability to trim its debt.
And Spain made headlines after its Socialist Party lost on Sunday in regional and municipal elections as tens of thousands of Spanish protesters, their anger partly fueled by the debt crisis and joblessness, are trying to force an overhaul of the political system.
Declines in Asia's markets followed the HSBC preliminary purchasing managers' index reading, a gauge of the manufacturing sector activity, for China, which fell to a 10-month low of 51.1 in May, according to news agencies, signaling a slowdown in expansion. Still, the Chinese government is poised to continue fiscal tightening. A similar gauge for Germany dropped to 54.9 in May, below forecasts.
The financial services and valuations company, Markit, said on Monday that its manufacturing P.M.I. for the euro zone was at a seven-month low at 54.8 in May, the sharpest slowdown since just after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, according to Chris Williamson, the chief economist.
While the numbers could have been affected by seasonal factors like the timing of Easter this year or by supply chain disruptions from the disasters in Japan, they show a ''more fundamental slowing in the pace of economic growth,'' he said in a statement.
Bruce McCain, the chief investment strategist of Key Private Bank, said the signs of weaker economic activity in China were counterbalanced by high inflation, with the possibility that they would have to continue to raise rates.
In Europe, he added, ''not only are they again grappling with the sovereign debt issue, but inflation remains uncomfortably high and they seem determined to raise rates again.''
Treasury prices rose on Monday. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 5/32, to 99 31/32 , and the yield fell to 3.13 percent from 3.15 percent late Friday. The yield has fallen by more than 40 basis points in a little more than a month.
Concerns over Europe reawakened the potential for oil demand to decline, causing crude prices on Monday to slip.
The dollar was higher against a range of currencies, with the euro falling below $1.40.
''Certainly while there is concern about the dollar's secular decline we have to be encouraged that it is still seen as a strong currency,'' said Colleen Supran, a portfolio manager with Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough, which is based in San Francisco.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); POLITICS (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); ELECTIONS (60%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GAIN CAPITAL HOLDINGS INC (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GCAP (NYSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) EUROPE (96%); ASIA (94%); ITALY (93%); SPAIN (93%); GERMANY (93%); CHINA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GREECE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



774 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Strong Sales Of Organic Foods Attract Investors

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
PARIS -- Even during a period of rising food prices and economic uncertainty, Damien Bignon, a poultry farmer in the Paris region, cannot meet the demand from local markets and stores for his organic eggs.
At the Ferme des Beurreries near Feucherolles, west of the capital, Mr. Bignon employs five people overseeing 3,000 chickens on 432 acres. He also produces organic cereals for his own feed and other clients and wheat to sell to a neighboring mill.
Mr. Bignon thinks he could comfortably expand to 12,000, matching the number of chickens on the farm in 1990 before its conversion to organic operations. But he is determined to manage carefully any growth to maintain quality, keep customers satisfied and not crowd out other local farmers. He charges 2 euros ($2.82) for a half dozen eggs -- about twice the cost of factory-farmed eggs at a French supermarket. 
''The issue for us is retaining that success without falling into the traps of industrialized agriculture,'' he said. ''There's risks in organic becoming a mass market.''
Sales of organic foods appear robust across Europe and the United States despite weak economic conditions and rising inflation. The strong sales are attracting more interest and activity from investors, who see potential in mergers through economies of scale, especially in Europe's more fragmented market.
In December, Compagnie Biodiversite, the French owner of Lea Nature, which supplies organic food, health products, textiles and cosmetics through large retail channels, announced its purchase of a large stake in Ekibio, another French player. That alliance makes it France's second-biggest organic food specialist, behind Distriborg, which is owned by the Dutch group Royal Wessanen.
Wessanen, which has been divesting assets in North America, is trying to expand in Europe, analysts say.
In Britain, Abel & Cole, which operates a home delivery service for organic products and has been owned by a private equity firm since 2007, is seen by analysts as an acquisition target, perhaps for a supermarket chain.
And Hain Celestial, based in Melville, N.Y., which makes organic food, drinks and personal care products, this year bought Danival, a French organic producer, as well as GG UniqueFiber, a Norwegian natural foods company. The investor Carl C. Icahn has been building a stake in Hain.
Many farmers and analysts expect the sector to remain strong in coming years, helped by increased public awareness of environmental and potential health benefits, better organization and production techniques, new demand from emerging markets and those periodic public scares attending events like the recent nuclear plant radiation leaks in Japan.
Another theory is that, as with the luxury industry, the core consumers, typically with high disposable incomes, are less affected by hard times.
''Over all, it's very surprising how stable the organic markets have been even in this critical economic situation,'' said Urs Niggli, director of FiBL, an independent nonprofit research institute focusing on organic agriculture in Switzerland. He predicted sales would accelerate in coming years, assuming economic growth picked up.
Organic Monitor, a market research firm and consultancy based in London, estimates that the global market for organic food and drink products in 2009 was $55 billion, 5 percent more than in 2008 and more than double the level in 2000. Significantly, the financial crisis and recession slowed the rate of growth in some countries, while the trend continued.
In the United States, sales of organic food reached $26.7 billion last year, according to the Organic Trade Association. That was a 7.7 percent increase from 2009, which itself was 5.1 percent higher than 2008. The United States has now overtaken Europe to become the largest market.
European sales grew 3.9 percent in 2009 after double-digit growth in previous years, according to Organic Monitor. In France, a late starter, and in Sweden and Belgium, sales in 2009 expanded more than 15 percent, according to FiBL. British sales contracted in the face of weaker consumer spending and fewer product lines at large stores, while the German market, Europe's largest, was stable after a period of strong increases.
Logically, the amount of land set aside for organic farming is also increasing. According to FiBL, land for organic use rose to 1.94 percent of all agricultural land in Europe in 2009, from 1.74 percent in 2008 and 1.25 percent in 2003.
According to the Agriculture Department, certified American organic farmland grew 127 percent from 2002 to 2007 and then by 12 percent from 2007 to 2009.
While both Europe and the United States have helped organic farmers, the methods and motivations have been different.
Europeans nurtured the sector because of perceived environmental and social benefits, while the United States supported standards, certification, research and education, treating the sector ''primarily as an expanding market opportunity,'' according to paper written several years ago by Carolyn Dimitri and Lydia Oberholtzer, experts at the Agriculture Department.
In Europe, subsidies for organic farming are drawn from European Union funds and disbursed to farmers by national governments, as well as in less direct ways, like marketing and procurement programs.
Organic farms receive on average higher subsidies in absolute terms and per hectare (almost 2.5 acres) than conventional farms, according to the Europe's Farm Accountancy Data Network. In Western Europe generally, the subsidy amounted to 438 euros ($614) a hectare against 355 euros in 2007.
Yet Christian Eichert, managing director in the German state of Baden-Wurttemberg for Bioland, that country's largest organic farmers' association, said Europe lacked a coherent policy toward the sector. Some countries like Spain and Italy focus on exports, while German support is state-driven and often hostage to local political changes, he said.
Recently, there have been some signs that austerity pressures across Europe are eating into state support.
The French government announced at the start of this year that it was halving a tax break for small farmers converting land to organic production. In Germany last year, the state of Schleswig-Holstein sought to remove organic subsidies but backed down after public pressure.
There is a ''general uncertainty'' surrounding future support, Mr. Eichert said. And forthcoming changes to the Europe's Common Agricultural Policy after 2013 have led farmers to expect more cuts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Damien Bignon, top left, on his farm in France, where he produces and sells organic eggs, lower left, and feed for livestock. He wants to avoid ''the traps of industrialized agriculture.'' His wife, Marie-Helene, above, cleaning a chicken coop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CECILIA GARRONI-PARISI FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIC FOODS (94%); POULTRY (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (90%); TABLE EGGS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); TABLE EGG INDUSTRY (90%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FACTORY FARMS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (76%); INFLATION (73%); COSMETICS (73%); FOOD MFG (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (72%); TEXTILES (71%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); MERGERS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%)

COMPANY: DISTRIBORG GROUPE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424490 OTHER GROCERY & RELATED PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); SIC5149 GROCERIES & RELATED PRODUCTS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



775 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
PAKISTANI OFFICIALS STRUGGLE
TO EXPLAIN BASE ATTACK
Pakistani military officials struggled unsuccessfully to explain how a small team of insurgents managed to scale the back wall of one of the country's premier naval air stations and destroy two American-provided surveillance planes, killing about a dozen Pakistani security officers in a gun battle that lasted for hours and raised new questions about the competence of the country's armed forces. PAGE A12
SANCTIONS FOR SYRIAN LEADER
Five days after the United States imposed sanctions on Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, the European Union followed suit, overcoming internal divisions on whether to single out the Syrian leader over the bloody crackdown against protesters in his country. PAGE A9 
SAUDIS ARREST ORGANIZER
The government of Saudi Arabia moved swiftly to extinguish a budding protest movement of women claiming the right to drive, a campaign inspired by uprisings across the Arab world demanding new freedoms but at risk of foundering. Manal al-Sharif, one of the campaign organizers, was detained in the eastern city of Dammam for up to five days on charges of disturbing public order and inciting public opinion by twice driving in a bid to press her cause. PAGE A4
National
KUCINICH MULLS A RACE,
VERY FAR AFIELD
Representative Dennis Kucinich, the liberal Democrat from Cleveland, is delicately examining the idea of running for Congress in Washington State next year. Given Ohio's loss of two House seats, his district is likely to disappear when new map lines are drawn. Washington, on the other hand, is gaining a seat. PAGE A14
FISCAL FIGHT ON PRISONS
The Supreme Court's order to California to ease overcrowding in the state's prisons, by releasing tens of thousands of inmates if no other solution can be found, will probably aid Gov. Jerry Brown's plan to move more inmates from state prisons to county jails. But it is sure to set off a fresh round of budget battling as officials insist on ensuring state funding before changing the system. PAGE A3
New York
12-STORY HOMELESS SHELTER
IS OPPOSED AS TOO BIG
A towering homeless shelter in a renovated building on 25th Street in the Chelsea section of Manhattan is scheduled to open within a month. But many in Chelsea are putting up a fight. PAGE A21
CHARGES IN SUICIDE CASE
Eight months after he was accused of using a webcam to spy on his roommate's intimate encounter with another man, a former Rutgers University student stood in court for the first time to answer criminal charges. PAGE A23
Business
ANXIOUS COMMUNITY BANKS
MOVE TO LIMIT NEW RULES
The community banking industry has started an aggressive grass-roots campaign, taking aim at regulation enacted in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Small banks especially fear that certain consumer protection provisions and debit card fee restrictions could hurt their bottom line and even cause a few banks to fail. But the regulation may not be as burdensome as the advertising campaign implies. PAGE B1
UNION EYES TARGET WORKERS
In the world of big-box discounters, Target enjoys a reputation as a model corporate citizen that sells the latest in cheap chic. But the arrows are about to come flying at Target's famous bull's-eye logo. The nation's largest union for retail workers has begun its first broad campaign to unionize Target workers. PAGE B1
BEHIND AIRLINE GIFT BAGS
The little amenity bags given to premium-class travelers hold an oversize importance to the airlines: they not only reflect the airline's brand, but also demonstrate the carriers' high regard for top customers. Soon, some airlines may turn the amenity kit into a revenue source by selling them to economy-class passengers. PAGE B1
RECALL STUDY FAULTS TOYOTA
Toyota's tendency to dismiss customer complaints and lack of a clear procedure for handling safety problems were among flaws identified by a panel investigating the automaker's recalls of more than 14 million vehicles because of problems that included acceleration and floor mats. PAGE B2
Obituaries
JOSEPH BROOKS, 71
Before his life tumbled into scandal and ended over the weekend, in apparent suicide, he carved out a glittering, idiosyncratic career as the author of some of advertising's most famous jingles, as a maker of movies and musicals and as the composer of one of history's biggest hits, ''You Light Up My Life.'' PAGE B11
Sports
TRUSTEE AND METS OWNERS
DIFFER ON COOPERATION
Among the points that the owners of the Mets have been most insistent about in their legal fight with the trustee for the victims of Bernard L. Madoff's fraud has been their claim to have been completely forthcoming during the trustee's investigation of their finances. But last week, the trustee for the victims challenged the accuracy and sincerity of the claims of cooperation by the owners. PAGE B15
PLAYER ESCAPES THE PAST
Like other N.F.L. players, Tajiddin Smith now resides in the limbo created by the N.F.L. lockout, hopeful but uncertain. For now there is nothing to be done that could secure his future in the game. The limbo has also left Smith, a practice squad player with the Indianapolis Colts, without the income that he was using to support his family members in Newark and to escape a past marred by violence. PAGE B13
Arts
3 CLASSIC NOVELS,
OVER 22 MINUTES
The Elevator Repair Service is a theatrical troupe whose main job lately has been to stage unusual readings of classic American novels. Over the weekend, the troupe raced through a simultaneous mash-up of Faulkner's ''Sound and the Fury'', ''The Sun Also Rises,'' by Hemingway, and the F. Scott Fitzgerald novel ''The Great Gatsby'' in a performance aptly titled ''Shuffle.'' PAGE C1
A BIBLE-BASED DRAMA
Mark Burnett, the prominent producer of reality television, is moving from Omarosa to Moses. He has made a deal with the History Channel to mount a 10-hour series based on the stories of the Bible. The project is expected to be on a similar scale to its most ambitious work, ''America: The Story of Us.'' PAGE C1
Science Times
DR. ANYONE, CALLED
TO DUTY AT 30,000 FEET
Since the earliest days of commercial aviation, airlines have coped with medical emergencies in flight by calling on physicians who happen to be passengers. And as more people travel by air, the number of emergencies has risen accordingly. Airborne calls for medical assistance pose a singular challenge for physicians, who find themselves suddenly caring for a stranger whose history they don't know, often with a problem well outside their specialty, in a setting with limited equipment but no shortage of onlookers scrutinizing their every move. PAGE D1
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A25
Joe Nocera PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRISONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (83%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ESPIONAGE (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); NAVIES (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); BUDGETS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); SUICIDE (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); BUILDING RENOVATION (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); COMMUNITY BANKS (62%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); CONSUMER LAW (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); DENNIS KUCINICH (54%); JERRY BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



776 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Steady Decline in Major Crime Baffles Experts

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Joseph Goldstein contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The number of violent crimes in the United States dropped significantly last year, to what appeared to be the lowest rate in nearly 40 years, a development that was considered puzzling partly because it ran counter to the prevailing expectation that crime would increase during a recession.
In all regions, the country appears to be safer. The odds of being murdered or robbed are now less than half of what they were in the early 1990s, when violent crime peaked in the United States. Small towns, especially, are seeing far fewer murders: In cities with populations under 10,000, the number plunged by more than 25 percent last year. 
The news was not as positive in New York City, however. After leading a long decline in crime rates, the city saw increases in all four types of violent lawbreaking -- murder, rape, robbery and aggravated assault -- including a nearly 14 percent rise in murders. But data from the past few months suggest the city's upward trend may have slowed or stopped.
Criminology experts said they were surprised and impressed by the national numbers, issued on Monday by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and based on data from more than 13,000 law-enforcement agencies. They said the decline nationally in the number of violent crimes, by 5.5 percent, raised the question, at least in some places, of to what extent crime could continue to fall -- or at least fall at the same pace as the past two years. Violent crimes fell nearly the same amount in 2009.
''Remarkable,'' said James Alan Fox, a criminologist at Northeastern University. ''Given the fact that we have had some healthy declines in recent years, I fully expected that the improvement would slow. There is only so much air you can squeeze out of a balloon.''
There was no immediate consensus to explain the drop. But some experts said the figures collided with theories about correlations between crime, unemployment and the number of people in prison.
Take robbery: The nation has endured a devastating economic crisis, but robberies fell 9.5 percent last year, after dropping 8 percent the year before.
''Striking,'' said Alfred Blumstein, a professor and a criminologist at the Heinz College at Carnegie Mellon University, because it came ''at a time when everyone anticipated it could be going up because of the recession.''
Nationally, murder fell 4.4 percent last year. Forcible rape -- which excludes statutory rape and other sex offenses -- fell 4.2 percent. Aggravated assault fell 3.6 percent. Property crimes -- including burglary, larceny, motor vehicle theft and arson -- fell 2.8 percent, after a 4.6 percent drop the year before.
But the gains were uneven. New York saw 536 murders last year -- 65 more than in 2009, which was the lowest since 1963.
The number of rapes in the New York City jumped 24.5 percent; robberies, 5.4 percent, and aggravated assaults, 3.2 percent.
New York was the only city with more than a million people besides San Antonio with an increase in the total number of violent crimes -- a 4.6 percent jump, to 48,489 -- and the only one besides Philadelphia to see a rise in murders.
Some experts cautioned against reading too much into the city's numbers, noting that New York's drop in violent crime over the last two decades has far outpaced many places, some of which are only now catching up.
''It's been so huge, there's always been this lingering question, how low could it go?'' said Michael Jacobson, director of the Vera Institute of Justice, and a former New York City correction and probation commissioner.
There were 2,245 murders in New York in 1990, but the total has been less than 600 for the past nine years.
''One murder is too many, but the 2010 spike has to be viewed in the context of the historic low the year before,'' said Paul J. Browne, the New York Police Department's chief spokesman. He said the department was doing more to encourage victims to report rapes.
Eli Silverman, a professor emeritus at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said Mr. Browne's account might only be a ''partial explanation'' -- the other part, he said, was increased scrutiny of the integrity of the department's crime statistics. When crime rates go up, the police say it is because they are encouraging more victims to come forward, Mr. Silverman said, ''but when crime goes down, it's the work of the police.''
Nationally, the drop in violent crime not only calls into question the theory that crime rates are closely correlated with economic hardship, but another argument as well, said Frank E. Zimring, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
As the percentage of people behind bars has decreased in the past few years, violent crime rates have fallen as well. For those who believed that higher incarceration rates inevitably led to less crime, ''this would also be the last time to expect a crime decline,'' he said.
''The last three years have been a contrarian's delight -- just when you expect the bananas to hit the fan,'' said Mr. Zimring, a visiting law professor at New York University and the author of a coming book on the decline in the city's crime rate.
But he said there was no way to know why -- at least not yet.
''The only thing that is reassuring being in a room full of crime experts now is that they are as puzzled as I am,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (93%); VIOLENT CRIME (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); ROBBERY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BURGLARY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PROPERTY CRIMES (78%); TRENDS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); VANDALISM (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (73%); ARSON (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



777 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Guatemala to Restore Legacy of a President the U.S. Helped Depose

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- After President Jacobo Arbenz was overthrown in a C.I.A.-backed coup in 1954, the Guatemalan government reversed his policies and branded him a Communist, all but erasing his brief presidency from history.
Nearly six decades later, a democratic Guatemala has promised to restore his legacy and treat him as a statesman.
In an agreement signed with Mr. Arbenz's descendants last week, the government promised to revise the school curriculum and grant Mr. Arbenz the treatment afforded to historical heroes. It will name a main highway and a museum wing after the ousted president, prepare a biography of him, publish his widow's memoir and mount an exhibition about him and his legacy in the National History Museum. 
The post office will even issue a series of stamps in his honor.
''When you say his name, my generation and older generations automatically pick sides,'' said Dr. Erick Arbenz, Mr. Arbenz's grandson, an anesthesiologist in Boston. ''The younger generation don't know who he was or how he shaped history. Part of that is the culture of silence created by the C.I.A. and the perpetrators.''
After winning the presidency in a landslide election in 1950, Mr. Arbenz began an effort to modernize the economy, including a land-redistribution program that angered American corporations and the United States government. President Eisenhower, convinced that Mr. Arbenz was giving the Communists a foothold in the Americas, authorized a coup that ousted the Guatemalan president in nine days.
The deposed president died in 1971 at the age of 57, a broken man in Mexico, leaving his widow, children and, later, grandchildren to fight unsuccessfully in the Guatemalan courts for his reputation and their confiscated property.
In 1999, the family went to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights in Washington. It accepted the complaint in 2006, leading to five years of stop-and-start negotiations.
The agreement, signed last Thursday, includes monetary reparations, which were not disclosed. The Guatemalan government will also hold a public ceremony to admit the state's past role in the coup and send a letter apologizing to the family.
The government has ''acknowledged its responsibility for wrongdoing and its desire to make it right and restore this man to his place in Guatemalan history,'' said Richard J. Wilson, a law professor at American University and the director of the law school's human rights clinic, which argued the Arbenz family's case.
President Alvaro Colom, Guatemala's first left-leaning president since Mr. Arbenz held office, has given human rights organizations a freer hand in demanding an accounting of the crimes committed during the brutal 36-year civil war that began a few years after the coup.
''We're working for the historical memory of our country,'' Ruth del Valle, president of Guatemala's presidential human rights commission, wrote in an e-mail. Ms. del Valle acted as her government's negotiator. ''It's important to guarantee that events such as these are never repeated,'' she said.
As part of the agreement, the family insisted on measures it believes can promote change in Guatemala, where, Dr. Arbenz said, the social chasm that lay behind the coup and its aftermath still persists. The government agreed to set up a degree program in human rights for public officials and indigenous leaders.
Dr. Arbenz said the agreement finally corrects the historical record, even if neither the president nor his wife, Maria Cristina Vilanova, who died at 93 in 2009, lived to see it.
''Justice does take time, even if it skips a generation,'' Dr. Arbenz said. ''My grandmother taught us to be tenacious, to be courageous, to be brave, and eventually there will be a solution.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COUPS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); CURRICULA (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); LAWYERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



778 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Pawlenty Declares Candidacy and Takes On Politically Popular Programs

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- Former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota formally opened his bid for the Republican presidential nomination on Monday and presented himself as a candidate willing to confront tough political choices, pledging to reinvent or dismantle programs like ethanol subsidies, Medicare and Social Security to address the nation's fiscal burdens.
''We need to cut spending, and we need to cut it big-time,'' Mr. Pawlenty said. ''The hard truth is that there are no longer any sacred programs.'' 
One day after Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana decided against joining the Republican presidential race, Mr. Pawlenty moved to occupy a newly created space in the party's nominating contest. He issued a call for austerity, shared sacrifice and truth telling, while working behind the scenes to recruit donors and influential activists who had urged Mr. Daniels to enter the race to challenge President Obama next year.
The formality of declaring a candidacy was hardly a surprise for Mr. Pawlenty, who has made dozens of visits to Iowa and other early-voting states over the last year. But the timing could not have been better for him, with undecided Republican primary voters having additional reason to take a look in the wake of Mr. Daniels's decision not to run.
A five-state tour this week, including stops in Florida, Washington, New York and New Hampshire, offers Mr. Pawlenty an opportunity to deliver his message of taking on politically popular programs once seen as untouchable. He said that Social Security and Medicare ''are on an unsustainable path and that inaction is no longer an option,'' and he proposed increasing the retirement age and using means testing for Social Security's cost-of-living adjustments.
''It's time for a new approach,'' Mr. Pawlenty said. ''It's time for America's president -- and anyone who wants to be president -- to look you in the eye and tell you the truth.''
While Mr. Pawlenty kept his focus squarely on Mr. Obama, the themes of his speech also offered a glimpse into how he hopes to distinguish himself from other Republican candidates. He made repeated references to honesty and truth, a word that he used 16 times during the course of a 20-minute speech. He did not mention by name former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, his leading rival, but raised the issue of health care in a pointed way.
''I know how to do health care reform right,'' Mr. Pawlenty said to a crowd of about 250 people on a rooftop terrace, with the State Capitol in the distance. ''I've done it at the state level. No mandates, no takeovers, and it's the opposite of Obamacare.''
Mr. Romney, who is visiting Iowa on Friday for the first time this year, has weathered criticism from Republicans about the health care plan he put in place as governor because of its similarities with the national plan that Mr. Obama signed last year.
Mr. Pawlenty is banking on a strong showing in the Iowa caucuses, which open the nominating contest early next year.
In directly challenging ethanol subsidies in this corn-producing state, Mr. Pawlenty runs the risk of alienating the farm vote, but he is gambling on appealing to the sensibilities of those in the Tea Party movement, which focuses on fiscal discipline. He singled out federal aid for ethanol production, a subsidy that helps Iowa farmers by creating higher demand for corn.
''The truth about federal energy subsidies, including federal subsidies for ethanol, is that they have to be phased out,'' Mr. Pawlenty said. ''We need to do it gradually. We need to do it fairly. But we need to do it.''
Mr. Pawlenty, who was purposefully confronting a sensitive issue in Iowa, said he was ''not some out-of-touch politician from some other part of the country.'' His proposal drew expected criticism, including from the Iowa Renewable Fuels Association president, Walt Wendland, who said, ''Iowans look forward to Governor Pawlenty further detailing his plans to phase out petroleum subsidies, perhaps in a speech in Houston, Tex.''
A former two-term governor, Mr. Pawlenty is relatively unknown outside Minnesota, but he argues that he is the Republican in the race with the widest appeal, capable of unifying Tea Party supporters, establishment Republicans and evangelical conservatives. His strategy is reliant upon a strong showing in the Iowa caucuses, which he hopes could propel him in other contests.
Mr. Pawlenty joins Representative Ron Paul of Texas, former Speaker Newt Gingrich and Herman Cain, a retired businessman, as the declared candidates in the Republican race. Mr. Romney technically remains in the exploratory phase of his candidacy, but has waged a more assertive fund-raising effort than any of his rivals.
Mr. Pawlenty and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former governor of Utah and ambassador to China, are both jockeying to emerge as the alternative to Mr. Romney. Mr. Pawlenty also faces competition from another Minnesotan, Representative Michele Bachmann, who is inching closer to announcing her candidacy.
''I'll unite our party and unite our nation,'' Mr. Pawlenty said. As supporters applauded, he added, ''Leadership in a time of crisis isn't about telling people what you think they want to hear, it's about telling the truth.''
Ken Martin, the Democratic chairman in Minnesota who traveled to Des Moines, told reporters after the speech that Mr. Pawlenty was a ''political chameleon'' and criticized his home-state record, including relying upon the economic stimulus from the Obama administration to close the budget gap.
''There is nothing in Governor Pawlenty's record,'' he said, ''that would warrant a promotion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota on the campaign trail on Monday in Des Moines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); MEDICARE (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); RETIREMENT AGE (63%); ALCOHOLS (57%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (57%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (57%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MITCH DANIELS (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%) IOWA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



779 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Britain Is Working

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
London
In 1920, Winston Churchill's mother held a dinner for M. Paul Cambon to celebrate the end of his 20 years as the French ambassador to Britain. One of the guests asked Cambon what he had seen in his two decades in London.
''I have witnessed an English revolution more profound and searching than the French Revolution itself,'' Cambon replied. ''The governing class have been almost entirely deprived of political power and to a very large extent of their property and estates; and this has been accomplished almost imperceptibly and without the loss of a single life.'' 
Buried in that answer is a picture of how politics should work. Britain faced an enormous task: To move from an aristocratic political economy to a democratic, industrial one. This transition was made gradually, without convulsion, with both parties playing a role.
This wasn't because the political leaders were so brilliant. They simply responded to a series of immediate problems. Nor was it because they were postpartisan angels. The parties fought vigorously.
It's just that the system worked. Each party took different whacks at pieces of the great national problem, depending on its interests. Opposing parties, when it was their turn in power, quietly consolidated the best of what the other had achieved. Gradually, through constructive competition, the country quarreled its way forward.
The United Kingdom seems to be in the middle of that sort of constructive quarrel now. Usually when I travel from Washington to Britain I move from less gloom to more gloom. But this time the mood is reversed. The British political system is basically functional while the American system is not.
As the British politician Oliver Letwin has argued, a generation of misrule between 1945 and 1979 left the U.K. with three large problems: a stifled industrial economy; an overcentralized welfare state; and an enervated people, some of whom are locked in cycles of poverty.
By liberating the economy, Margaret Thatcher tackled the first of these problems, and subsequent Labour governments consolidated her gains. Meanwhile, a series of governments have been fitfully tackling problems two and three, reforming the welfare state and energizing the populace.
In conversation, the Conservative and Labour leaders are happy to rubbish each other, but what's striking to an outsider is how much their concerns overlap. A series of governments, going all the way back to John Major's administration in the '90s, have tried to decentralize power, come up with new ways to measure government performance, reduce welfare dependency and improve early childhood programs.
Many of the programs have failed, but the general direction is clear: the move from a centralized, industrial-era state to a networked, postindustrial one.
The momentum is especially evident just now. Prime Minister David Cameron is a skilled politician who dominates the scene. His agenda doesn't merely touch his party's hot buttons, but moves in many directions at once.
His austerity program includes tax increases as well as spending cuts. He's vigorously protecting the foreign aid budget as he cuts almost everywhere else. He has aggressively reformed welfare and education while retreating on health service reform.
By balancing his agenda, by conveying a sense of momentum, by insisting on fiscal responsibility, he's remained popular. His party did well in the recent local elections, even amid the fiscal pain.
Britain is also blessed with a functioning political culture. It is dominated by people who live in London and who have often known each other since prep school. This makes it gossipy and often incestuous.
But the plusses outweigh the minuses. The big newspapers still set the agenda, not cable TV or talk radio. If the quintessential American pol is standing in his sandbox screaming affirmations to members of his own tribe, the quintessential British pol is standing across a table arguing face to face with his opponents.
British leaders and pundits know their counterparts better. They are less likely to get away with distortions and factual howlers. They are less likely to believe the other party is homogenously evil. They are more likely to learn from a wide range of people. When they do hate, their hatreds are more likely to be personal and less likely to take on the tenor of a holy war.
The British political system gives the majority party much greater power than any party could hope to have in the U.S., but cultural norms make the political debate less moralistic and less absolutist. The British press also do an amazing job of policing corruption. The media go into a frenzy at the merest whiff of malfeasance. Last week, for example, a minister was pummeled for saying clumsy things about rape.
Tuesday, as President Obama visits London, we will get a glimpse of the British political culture. We Americans have no right to feel smug or superior.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); OLIVER LETWIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



780 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Despair? None Bloomberg Seems to See

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Poor Michael Bloomberg. He possesses the third term he so desired and yet he seems not to know what to do with it.
Several of our mayor's grander dreams -- congestion pricing, a West Side stadium, his Park Avenue schools chancellor -- have turned to dross, even as his ''Say what?'' moments pile up. In the past week, he gave a rhetorical back of his hand to working-class parents, suggesting they know too little to judge the quality of their children's school. He extolled the poorly paid tourism industry as the employment future for hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers.
And he dismissed subway panhandlers as a relic of New York past. 
''There aren't very many panhandlers left, in all fairness to the M.T.A.,'' the mayor informed reporters last week, in his don't-you-have-something-better-to-ask-me manner. ''Come on.''
At this point, as a daily denizen of the Q train, I could recite the lineup of the impoverished who wend their way through my subway car (some are regulars, others do cameos). But that would be cheap. Rather the thought occurs that we should congratulate Mr. Bloomberg on his inability to stay his tongue.
Tucked into the mayor's remarks is a useful reminder that the divide -- economic and perceptual -- between rich and poor in New York remains vast.
For much of upper-middle-class New York, particularly Manhattan and brownstone Brooklyn, Riverdale in the Bronx and Douglaston in Queens (places where a recent poll found reservoirs of support for the mayor), the Great Recession is a storm near blown over. The co-op market is sprightly and restaurants are brimming. A friend and neighbor in Ditmas Park, Brooklyn, calls to report that the house next door is being retailed at $1.2 million.
So sweet it is.
And yet to go east a few miles from Ditmas Park to Brownsville, Jamaica and St. Albans is to find the foreclosure epidemic in full flower. As Michael Hickey, executive director of the city-financed Center for New York City Neighborhoods, noted recently: ''We are far from through. It looks as bad as it's ever been.''
The markers of despair are many. Black male joblessness sits at close to 50 percent. The nightly census of the homeless is a touch under 40,000, the highest since the Great Depression. Demand on food pantries, the New York City Coalition Against Hunger reports, is in a geometric expansion. I pose the question to Gary Phipps, a voluble owner of a cubbyhole gift shop on Newkirk Avenue in Flatbush: Does this mayor feel your pain?
''Business-wise? He's real good,'' Mr. Phipps says. ''But personal, the pain people are feeling right now? Not really, no. He doesn't know anything about us.''
The city's social ills are not easily cured; homelessness has arched upward for a decade. And grant the mayor his achievements: More and more of the waterfront is garlanded in green. His transportation policies favor bikers and walkers. And he continues to underwrite the preservation and construction of housing -- 112,000 subsidized units since 2003 -- even in the face of a fearsome downturn in tax revenues.
SUBWAY panhandlers aside, he can make a reasonable reckoning with the city's reality. He hired a researcher who found that the real percentage of New Yorkers in poverty in 2009 was not 17.3 percent, as the federal measure states, but 19.9 percent. It's worth letting that roll around the brain pan -- the impoverished in New York equal the population of three Bostons.
And yet our mayor, who in 2009 offered his business acumen as a re-election argument for hard times, can sound less than inspired. Last week he celebrated the Port Authority's subsidized relocation habits of a gilded magazine company -- Conde Nast -- to 1 World Trade Center. A few days later, he stood outside the Financier Patisserie, deep in the financial district, and contrasted his New York with hollowed-out American cities. Those unfortunates, he noted, relied on fading manufacturing plants.
The tourism industry, he noted, ''is our answer to the old-time industries' declining.''
Hospitality in fact is a job leader, accounting for 27 percent of the city's recent growth. It is also a strikingly low-paid industry; the average wage is 59 percent below the city average.
The mayor left that unsaid. Then again, given his recent experience talking about those who live in the city he governs, perhaps that was just as well.
This column will appear on Tuesdays.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (79%); CHILDREN (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (74%); HOMELESSNESS (74%); PANHANDLING (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); FOOD CHARITIES (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%); TOURISM (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



781 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Warm Welcome in Ireland as Obama Starts European Tour

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
MONEYGALL, Ireland -- President Obama may not be related to everybody in this postage-stamp Irish hamlet of 300, which claims him as its native son. But on Monday, Mr. Obama appeared determined to hug, kiss, shake hands or raise a glass with every last one of them.
''He held my hand, he drew me close and he kissed me on the cheek,'' said an ecstatic Anne Maher, 50, who was wearing a red cap with the words ''Obama Moneygall 2011'' on it. ''I'm not going to wash that cheek for a lifetime.'' 
In a jubilant visit that included a pint of Guinness at a local pub -- the first lady, Michelle Obama, had a half-pint -- a stop at a house once lived in by his great-great-great grandfather and quite possibly the most garrulous rope line he has ever worked, Mr. Obama made a familiar pilgrimage for an American president: going back to his Irish roots.
It was the emotional highlight of a 12-hour visit to Ireland by the president, as he kicks off a six-day tour of Europe that will also take him to Britain, France and Poland -- and immerse him in thorny issues like the military campaign in Libya and upheaval elsewhere in the Arab world.
Mr. Obama's itinerary is already under threat from an ash cloud spewed by an erupting volcano in Iceland. To get ahead of the cloud, the White House said the president would fly to London late Monday rather than stay overnight in Dublin.
With fierce winds and sudden downpours, Mr. Obama did not escape the weather. But he did get a breather from geopolitics, delivering a speech at Trinity College in Dublin that celebrated the bond between the Irish and Americans, one unblemished by rifts over peace negotiations or counterterrorism policy.
''I'm Barack Obama, from the Moneygall Obamas,'' he said to a fired-up crowd of 25,000. ''And I've come home to find the apostrophe that we lost somewhere along the way.''
After poking fun at the questions back home about where he was born, Mr. Obama told the story of his great-great-great grandfather, Fulmouth Kearney, a shoemaker's son from Moneygall, who sailed for New York at the age of 19.
In going to Ireland's bucolic hinterland, Mr. Obama was retracing the steps of Presidents Kennedy, Reagan and Clinton. But he learned of his Irish connection only in 2007, when a curious churchman looked up his mother's family records. Those old papers were shown to Mr. Obama on Monday.
For flesh-and-blood evidence, he was introduced to Henry Healy, a gangly man with pronounced ears said to be an eighth cousin of Mr. Obama's. Mr. Healy has become something of a local celebrity, earning the nickname Henry VIII. He waited for his moment with crowds, four deep, stretching a quarter of a mile up Moneygall's main street, which was lined with Irish and American flags.
Ireland had just finished taking down the Union Jacks that greeted Queen Elizabeth during her visit last week. Mr. Obama cited that as evidence of the progress Ireland and Britain had made in putting the violence of the past behind them.
''The economy needs a lift, the people need a lift, and this brings a big lift,'' said John Kennedy, a county official named after the president who visited Ireland in 1963, the year he was born.
Nearby, John Donovan, 44, waited to welcome Mr. Obama to his well-kept, pebbledash house, where Mr. Kearney once lived. ''I'm so nervous I can't talk,'' said Mr. Donovan, who listed his occupations -- in ''descending order'' -- as shopkeeper, funeral director and farmer.
Moneygall's link with Mr. Obama has transformed it into an instant tourist destination. Or, as Susan Wallace, a lifelong resident said optimistically, ''The name might change to Money-all.''
At Ollie Hayes's Bar, the president's heaviest task was waiting to let the foam on his pint subside before drinking it. ''You tell me when it's properly settled,'' Mr. Obama said to Mr. Hayes, after he drew the pint. ''I don't want to mess this up.'' Plunking money on the bar, he added, ''I just want you to know the president pays.''
Standing in the pub's low-ceiling room, surrounded by distant relatives and those who claimed they were, Mr. Obama said: ''There are millions of Americans who trace their ancestry back to this beautiful island. Part of what makes it so special is because the Irish influence on American culture is so powerful in the arts, in politics, in commerce.''
Earlier in the day,Mr. and Mrs. Obama were welcomed by President Mary McAleese, a lawyer and a native of Northern Ireland, who watched as Mr. Obama helped plant an Irish upright oak tree in a garden behind the presidential residence in Dublin (a sequoia planted by Kennedy swayed nearby).
In a private meeting, a senior White House official said, Mrs. McAleese told Mr. Obama that her son, then living in the United States, woke her by phone early one morning in 2004 to tell her he was canvassing for a young politician that he believed would one day be elected president.
''Did he tell you it was a Gaelic name?'' Mr. Obama replied.
Meeting Prime Minister Enda Kenny, Mr. Obama voiced solidarity with Ireland as it struggles with the economic fallout caused by a collapsing real estate market and insolvent banks. ''For the United States, Ireland carries a blood link,'' the president said.
For his part, Mr. Kenny presented Mr. Obama with an Irish hurling stick -- a sort of flattened field-hockey stick, which the president joked he could use on unruly members of Congress -- as well as a three-volume set of children's stories by a 1920s Irish author on the myths and legends of Hawaii, for his daughters, Sasha and Malia.
Thanking him, Mr. Obama said, ''It just confirms that if you need somebody to do some good writing, hire an Irishman.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The first lady and the president drank Guinness in Moneygall, Ireland, the hometown of an Obama ancestor discovered in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); WEATHER (69%); VOLCANIC ASH CLOUDS (69%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (69%); BEER & ALE (69%); EVIDENCE (60%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%); PEACE PROCESS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); ICELAND (79%); FRANCE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



782 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: With His Ohio District Endangered, Kucinich Mulls Run in Washington State

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, the liberal Democrat from Cleveland, was a long way from home -- 2,000 miles give or take. But he found plenty of political admirers in this stronghold of progressive political thought.
''Run, Dennis, run,'' urged Karen Pooley, a 48-year-old sales representative as Mr. Kucinich addressed her and other chanting protesters who were outside a Chase bank to rally against government policies that favor financial institutions while teachers are being laid off. 
Mr. Kucinich is indeed thinking about running, but it would not be another try for president and maybe not even an eighth House race back in Ohio. Instead, the 64-year-old Mr. Kucinich, who first gained fame as the ''boy mayor'' of Cleveland in the 1970s, is delicately examining the idea of running for Congress here in Washington State next year. Given Ohio's loss of two House seats, his district is likely to disappear when new map lines are drawn.
But Washington is gaining a seat, and Mr. Kucinich figures his aggressive brand of antiwar, pro-working class politics could sell well in a solidly blue state where he has ideological allies and was popular in his White House bids in 2004 and 2008. It is a somewhat novel idea that could be summed up as: Have seniority, will travel.
''I think the issues that I speak about in terms of economic and social justice and peace and environmental quality are things that concern people all over the country, and I am grateful to be here with people of like mind,'' Mr. Kucinich said on Saturday as he joined the crowd outside the bank in the heavily Democratic neighborhood of Wallingford.
While Mr. Kucinich's case may be the most extreme example, he is not the only member of the House examining options for 2012. As happens every 10 years, the post-census redistricting is causing political dislocation for many incumbents as they watch state legislators chop up their districts.
In Iowa, Representative Tom Latham is planning to move into a nearby county to challenge a Democrat rather than a fellow Republican, Representative Steve King, after the two were thrown together in a redrawn district. Representative Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, entered his state's Senate race after his district strength was diluted.
In Missouri, Representative Russ Carnahan, a member of a powerful Democratic family, saw his district vanish in what he viewed as gerrymandering by state Republicans. He is now eying a run for a new neighboring district that he said is about a five-minute drive from his St. Louis home. ''I am very confident that at the end of the process, I am going to have a good district to run in and continue to serve and fight for the people I represent in Missouri,'' Mr. Carnahan said.
No one else in the House appears to be weighing the kind of cross-country move that Mr. Kucinich is exploring. And he, ever mindful that he still represents Ohio and could end up running there, says only that he is trying to find a way to remain a voice in Congress even if his district is dissolved.
''My district appears to be on the block, so I am looking at options, and I am not limiting those options to Ohio,'' Mr. Kucinich said.
Mr. Kucinich's effort would certainly be unusual. In the early days of Congress, a few House members won election years apart in two different states. But Ed Foreman, now a motivational speaker, was the last to do so, more than 40 years ago; elected as a Republican from Texas in 1962, he lost his re-election bid in 1964, and then won one term in New Mexico in 1968.
The idea that Mr. Kucinich would relocate to the Pacific Northwest before 2012, when his current term in Ohio ends, is not going over well with everyone in Democratic circles.
''Washingtonians are not going to be receptive to a sitting congressman from Ohio filing for office in our state,'' said Dwight Pelz, chairman of the Washington Democratic Party.
Mr. Pelz said that while Washington was strongly Democratic, the new district would most likely be centered in the Seattle suburbs and be home to swing voters who might not take to Mr. Kucinich's liberal politics.
''If Dennis Kucinich is our candidate, we could easily lose that district,'' said Mr. Pelz, who said he had made his views known to the congressman.
It is unclear what competition Mr. Kucinich would face in Washington's new 10th Congressional District. Tom Cramer, an unsuccessful House candidate in 2010, said he intended to run for the new seat and predicted it would be ''very, very difficult'' for Mr. Kucinich. If Representative Jay Inslee, a Democrat, runs for governor, Mr. Kucinich could run for his seat north of Seattle.
If Mr. Kucinich's weekend schedule was any indication, he is taking the matter seriously. In addition to the rally at the bank, he spoke to Democrats outside Seattle in Woodinville, a suburb that could be part of the new district, before he met with students at the University of Washington. He spoke at fund-raisers and gave a presentation on ''reconnecting with the natural world'' at the Green Festival in Seattle.
He has built-in name identification -- a woman he bumped into at the popular Pike Place Market was wearing an old Kucinich for President button.
And he won some converts, striking a chord with voters who believe that the political debate in the nation's capital has shifted too far to the right and needs the kind of countervailing view Mr. Kucinich provides.
''I don't think it is an ideal situation,'' said John Tuttle, a retired Web designer who spoke with Mr. Kucinich outside the bank, ''but if he meets the legal requirements, I would vote for him.''
Others noted that Mr. Kucinich was not the first political figure with a national following to go shopping for friendly political territory, pointing to Hillary Rodham Clinton's successful Senate run in New York.
''If New York can welcome a national figure to the state, we can welcome a national figure to Washington,'' said David Spring of North Bend, a former candidate for the state's Legislature who encouraged Mr. Kucinich to run during the visit to Woodinville.
Should Mr. Kucinich go ahead, he is certain to face accusations of carpetbagging and confront questioners like a woman on Saturday who pressed him on whether political candidates should be homegrown. He had a ready answer.
''Where people live is always interesting,'' Mr. Kucinich said. ''Where they stand is quite instructive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, a Democrat, in Seattle, where he tested the waters for a House run if his district disappears as Ohio loses two seats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SALES FORCE (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CELEBRITIES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

PERSON: DENNIS KUCINICH (93%); RUSS CARNAHAN (58%); STEVE KING (58%); JOE DONNELLY (58%); TOM LATHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (51%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011



783 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: On Frederick Seidel, Radiohead, the End of the World, Pink Floyd and Weeping Sugar

BYLINE: ADAM STERNBERGH


HIGHLIGHT: The implied poetry of a Radiohead video.

 BODY:
In researching my contribution to our list of Stuff We Like That Maybe You Won't, I'd originally intended to recommend the poetry of Frederick Seidel, which I turn to habitually for a rush of dread and pleasure, until I realized it's quite possible you will like it, or that you already do. Which is not to say Seidel is impossible to not-love: He has been called "crass, disturbing, a name-dropping, upmarket sinner"; he has also been called "America's greatest living poet." In fact, he was called both in the same article (specifically, the display text to the article), when Wyatt Mason profiled him for the Times magazine back in 2009.
I bring him up again here because, in researching him for his eventual noninclusion in the aforementioned list, I reread his poem "Rain," which appeared recently in The New Yorker. The poem somehow magically manages to address the global financial crisis, the E.U. handling of Greek debt, torrential weather disasters, the continually looming likelihood of world apocalypse and a canoe trip in the Ozarks. Here's the final stanza (italicized rather than indented as a block quote to preserve the line breaks):
 Entire trees rocket past. One wouldn't stand a chance in the canoe. A three-legged dog appears, then the guy it belongs to. You instantly knew You'd run into a hillbilly backwoods crazy, itching to kill you. Berlin and Athens, as the Western world flickers, Look up blinking in the rain and lick the rain and shiver and freeze. They open up black umbrellas and put on yellow slickers And weep sugar like honeybees dying of the bee disease.
The "weep sugar" line alone is enough to stop you dead and make you lie down on the sidewalk like that guy from the 1995 video for Radiohead's "Just."
That video is also kind of magical - perhaps my favorite combination of song and video ever, although that may also be Ke$ha's "Blow" - and as a fun game, I like to imagine that, at the end of the "Just" video, what the man is doing is reciting the last four lines of "Rain." 
Try it yourself: Skip to the 3:23 mark of the video below (but not if you haven't already watched the whole thing first) and imagine that's what he's saying. It's kind of like syncing up Pink Floyd's "Dark Side of the Moon" to "The Wizard of Oz": It's an entirely alternative soundtrack that still makes perfect sense.
>

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POETRY (91%); WRITERS (78%); WEATHER (73%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); BOATING & RAFTING (66%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



784 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Where Do You Fall on the Income Curve?

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A chart showing how much is earned by a household at any given percentile in the nation's income distribution.

 BODY:
The Tax Policy Center has updated its figures on the income distribution in America, which we'd previously written about in a post about why most rich people don't feel very rich. They have now crunched income levels for every single percentile, and the numbers refer to 2011 rather than 2010. So I've updated my chart on this subject.
The graph below shows how much income is earned by a household at any given percentile in the income distribution, based on these new numbers for 2011:
Incomes grow much, much faster at the top end of the income distribution than in the middle or at the bottom end. That is, the disparity in income between one percentile and a consecutive percentile is bigger among the very rich.
For example, the difference in income between a household at the 50th percentile and a household at the 51st percentile is $1,237 ($42,327 versus $43,564). But the difference in incomes between a household at the 98th percentile and the 99th percentile is $146,118 ($360,435 jumps up to $506,553).
The gaps become even wider at the extreme top of the income ladder: A family at the 99.5th percentile makes $815,868; its neighbor at the 99.9th percentile makes more than double that, at $2,075,574 a year. 
In fact much of the rise in inequality over the last few decades has been because of the increasing inequality isolated among the very top members of the income distribution, as America's wealthiest have pulled further and further away from their slightly less wealthy peers.
(Addendum: "Income" in this case refers to cash income, without energy assistance, imputed corporate income tax liability and the employer's share of payroll taxes.)

        
Everyone Is 'Middle Class,' Right? 
        
Rich People Still Don't Realize They're Rich
        
Why So Many Rich People Don't Feel Very Rich
        
Inequality Rising Across the Developed World
        
Inequality Is Most Extreme in Wealth, Not Income

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); CORPORATE TAX (63%) high-income; Income; Income Inequality; inequality; low-income; Tax Policy Center; upper middle class; wealth

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



785 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Stuff We Like That Maybe You Won't

BYLINE: THE STAFF


HIGHLIGHT: Staff members were asked to identify things that differentiated their taste from that of their friends and colleagues: What do we like that others in our lives either don't like or don't know about? What is idiosyncratically ours?

 BODY:
This list of recommendations was generated with a twist. Staff members were asked to identify things that differentiated their taste from that of their friends and colleagues: What do we like that others in our lives either don't like or don't know about? What is idiosyncratically ours? Some, you'll see, took this occasion to reveal their particular guilty pleasures. Others showed us a side of themselves we didn't know existed - is there really among us someone who enjoys "Alf"? And who watches shark videos? While we figure out what to do with these outliers, read the list and please add your own off-kilter picks in the comments.
My friends are (mostly) not interested in the history of electrical engineering, which is the subject of Charles Petzold's "Code." I find it gripping!
As Icelandic knitters noted in Jake Halpern's recent piece for the magazine, "The Big Thaw," knitting is a fashionable response to economic uncertainty. But there are a lot more people doing creative knitting in Northern Europe, for example, than there are in New York City. To see what people are knitting all over the globe - and to view photos of a particular pattern knit in different colors and sizes by hundreds of other knitters, Ravelry, a Web site with many links to free patterns, is invaluable.
The extraordinary puppet, Joey, the life-size horse in "War Horse" at Lincoln Center, a powerful show about a boy and his horse during World War I at Lincoln Center Theater. The horse is heartbreakingly real and unforgettable.
Here's something I'm loving today. It's a video of Stravinsky conducting his own music.
The movie "The Holy Mountain," by Alejandro Jodorowsky, at PS1.
Raiatea Helm. The young queen of Hawaiian falsetto sings "Alika." At 0:21 she holds that note for 24.2 seconds. Great lungs!
The band Sloan. They were from Canada before that was cool. Nova Scotia. Four members, all write and sing. Been together 20 years and just made what could be their best album. How many bands have ever done that?
Foul-mouthed bedtime reading. Every parent should have this. (See the book cover above.)
I'm a long time follower of this Web site. I think David Thorne is hilarious and laugh out loud every time I read through one of the bits on his site. At the end of April, Penguin published a book titled "The Internet Is a Playground" that contains all of the e-mails on this site as well as some new writing.
Last week, New York magazine ran an excellent package on TV showrunners, and just about all of them mentioned "Cheers" as a huge influence. I wasn't yet potty-trained when the show first aired, in 1982, and my critical facilities weren't as sharp as my gluing-popsicle-sticks-together-to-make-a-birdhouse skills by the time it ended 11 years later, so this weekend I went back and watched a good chunk of Season 1. And I couldn't believe how much better it plays through adult eyes. It's still funny, of course, but what hadn't occurred to me before is just how sad it is, and how warm. Thirty years later, it still feels like what network television should be: broadly appealing with traces of darkness and subversion.
I've been a fan of Alec Soth's photography for years. Now I find myself buying his high-concept pornography, a project called Lonely Boy Mag.
As middle age encroaches, there are several obvious signals, not just one. The most embarrassing of these is being too scatterbrained to concentrate on real, printed books. I listen every day to what used to be called books on tape, which now, because of advances in technology, must go by the ridiculous, oxymoronic name "audiobooks." Magic talking novels! I walk a couple of miles to work, the better to preserve my existence, listening to grown men and women imitating the imaginary voices of characters in Austen or Dickens. I wish you could hear me saying out loud how much I love it.
Philip Levine reading "What Work Is" -- a great, funny, sad, angry poem. Or this recording of a 9-year-old girl singing "Desperado" as part of the Langley Schools Music Project.
Hamish Linklater and Mamie Gummer in School for Lies: a modern (and yet not modern) adaptation of Moliere's "The Misanthrope" by David Ives. Unfortunately, it's only playing until the May 29 at the Classic Stage Company on 13th Street off 3rd Avenue in Manhattan.
So hard to pick just one episode -- so I didn't; I picked two episodes: "MuscleBob BuffPants" and "Dying for Pie."
Among the many things I miss about college is cruising historical sources for fun quotations. Luckily a college mate of mine, Ben Tarnoff, who writes books on American history, cherry picks these and publishes them with commentary on his blog. From his last post, a 1787 note from Thomas Jefferson to James Madison that resonates with how I sometimes feel about living in New York: "When we get piled upon one another in large cities, as in Europe, we shall become corrupt as in Europe, and go to eating one another as they do there."
Two Web sites: Ties 4 Cops. "The French public is especially demanding when it comes to one's attire and elegance and was profoundly shocked by the events which recently brought such revolting ties on the forefronts of their national papers. ties4cops a new pattern for NY cops is a voluntary contributive webapp. It aims to acquaint New-York policemen with more humane tie patterns." The Daily Superpower. "Saving the day, one day at a time."
''Insignificant Others,'' by Stephen McCauley. The most recent novel from the leading gay-themed fiction writer. The story, such as it is, is less important than his protagonist's pronouncements on middle age, monogamy (or the lack thereof) and urban and corporate culture (or the lack thereof).
"Frisky Dingo," a show that is not about dingos, frisky or otherwise, and quite possibly the oddest and most hilarious thing ever to have somehow been mistakenly allowed on television. The creators went on to make "Archer." This is weirder and funnier and better.
"Rooms With a View: The Open Window in the 19th Century" at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. As much for what these works say about looking out as they do about looking inward. For both Peter Schjeldahl of The New Yorker and Sanford Schwarz of The New York Review of Books, the Caspar David Friedrichs stand out. Many of the other works are in a minor key, but there are gems here by lesser known artists, good company if you are given, as I am, to staring moodily out the window.
Le Quattro Volte. It's funny how something nearly void of dialogue can generate so much of it.
Many people may think it is the height of stupidity, but "Alf" is one of the funniest sitcoms ever.
Fabulous Latin Champions are no longer together. I love to watch this man dance!
Fort Lee Historic Park is an easy run across the George Washington Bridge from upper Manhattan. There are often deer, wild turkeys, rabbits chipmunks (and the occasional Revolutionary War re-enactor) wandering the park's mile-long loop. All this with a view of the Manhattan skyline.
"The Mary Tyler Moore Show" on Hulu. Especially good as an alternative to, say "iCarly" or "The Suite Life of Zack and Cody," if you are watching TV with your kids.
DoubleX podcast: three smart, incisive female editors from Slate talk about the news. The most recent discussion was on Dominique Strauss-Kahn (of course), vaginoplasty andRoseanne Barr's New York magazine article about working in TV.
I'm addicted to sharks, always have been. I send friends videos that make me nuts with excitement and most of the responses I receive, if any, are very lackluster. Here's my latest addiction. I just cannot stop watching it, especially at 3:19.
One, this insane video. Prisencolinensinainciusol! Two: This amazing sound map of the city of Lisbon.
The iPhonography of Richard Koci-Hernandez on Instagram.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: KNITTING & CROCHETING (91%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); WEB SITES (70%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (69%); HORSES (69%); WORLD WAR I (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (52%) EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); ICELAND (71%); UNITED STATES (70%); NORTHERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



786 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.

 BODY:
A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.
The Wall Street Journal: The government may require ranchers to use bar-coded ear tags on cattle instead of branding them. Calves cheer. -- Nick Fox
Vancouver Sun: Feces rising in food we import from abroad, a microbiologist reports. Seafood and fresh produce from Asia are of particular concern. -- Sam Sifton
The Economist: The poignant travails of an entrepreneurial family of Iranian immigrants in California, trying to market a patriarch's secret-recipe brand of haute artisanal yogurt -- but falling afoul of the state's antiquated food-and-agriculture laws -- Glenn Collins 
LA Weekly: Papaya King invades Hollywood. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New Yorker: Everything you ever wanted to know about the annals of acai, the exotic superfruit that may not be all that super (only summary is available to nonsubscribers) -- Glenn Collins 
Atlanta Journal Constitution: In a Waffle House in the outstandingly-named city of Warner Robins, Georgia, police say a councilman got so angry at a city official that he dumped his meal in the official's lap. -- Sam Sifton 
Cape Cod Today: A lobster diver is still missing in waters off the Cape, as the Coast Guard continues its search. -- Sam Sifton
New York Times: In the way-back machine today, a recipe for pasta and clams from Pierre Franey that will transform your dinner into ecstasy. -- Sam Sifton
Chicago Tribune: At a trade association convention in Chicago, signs of a slow recovery in the restaurant business. "It's an improving picture," said one owner, "but it's a long ways away from where we used to be." -- Sam Sifton
The Wall Street Journal: Restaurant Reason is a new Web site that helps restaurants train staff, post schedules and provide an internal discussion forum. -- Nick Fox Conde Nast Traveler: "Back at my hotel, I turned on the Northern Lights-themed lighting, climbed into bed, and could think about only one thing: forest tea," Mark Schatzker writes of his trip to Sweden, the world's wellness beacon. "That minty boreal mood would not release its grip." -- Jeff Gordinier Tasting Table: Behold "mustard on steroids": An Oregon rendition of South Carolina sunchoke relish. -- Jeff Gordinier

        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); SEAFOOD (77%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); WEB SITES (50%) What We're Reading

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); WAFFLE HOUSE INC (55%); ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



787 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Paying More to Wait Longer for the Subway

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: Train service isn't what it was as recently as a year ago, conspicuously on the numbered lines that the transportation authority still quaintly lumps together as the IRT. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs.

 BODY:
Let's dispense first with a few housekeeping details: The future Lady McCartney did her duty as a board member of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority by attending committee hearings on Monday. Some had wondered if she would show up. She did.
Now that we have that out of the way, here are other things that were learned at the monthly gathering of the committee that oversees New York City Transit's subway operations. 
You probably suspected this already, but train service isn't what it was as recently as a year ago, conspicuously on the numbered lines that the transportation authority still quaintly lumps together as the IRT. (The initials stand for Interborough Rapid Transit, the private company that operated the city's original subway line.)
The tricky part is how to gauge the service decline. 
Subwaymeisters have long used a measurement known as on-time performance, or O.T.P. in transit-speak. This registers how long it takes a train to reach its terminus. If it arrives no more than five minutes behind schedule, it is deemed on time. (We won't deal here with the metaphysical question of how being five minutes late equals being on time.)
In March 2010, 91.3 percent of all trains met that standard during the work week. This March, the figure dipped to 86.4 percent. On the IRT, the numbers really tumbled, to 81.4 percent from 90.5 percent. On the Nos. 2 and 3 lines, the percentages practically fell off the cliff, to the low 70s from the high 80s a year earlier. 
Those statistics led to worried talk on the committee about "O.T.P. on the IRT." It sounded almost like a sample of a song from "Hair." 
Ah, but is O.T.P. the best measurement?
Another metric has been spawned. It's called wait assessment. This measures whether trains arrive in stations along their routes at more or less assigned intervals.
The argument for using it is that it focuses on what subway riders really care about: Can they expect to see a train before the next fiscal quarter? Not many New Yorkers lose sleep over a train's being slow to reach its final destination; relatively few people ride to the end of the line.
By this measure, the subway managers looked a lot better (which may help explain why they like it). In March, 78.2 percent of all trains had met their targets over the previous 12 months, a figure barely changed from 2010. Even so, the IRT performed noticeably worse than other lines.
But no matter how you slice and dice the statistics, they point to an inescapable reality: Over all, roughly one train in five is not showing up as scheduled. And you're paying more for the privilege of waiting longer and, once on the train, of being hit upon by the many panhandlers whom the mayor somehow manages not to see. 
On the matter of the fare, too, the numbers are tricky. A transit committee report said that setting aside student discounts, the average transit fare in March was $1.64, 15 cents more than a year earlier. But, thanks to MetroCards, that was still well below the $2.25 basic fare.
If one measures the fare in constant dollars, the report said, New Yorkers actually pay less per ride than they did in 1996, a year before the MetroCard came into full use. The average fare 15 years ago was $1.38, it said. Today's fare is equivalent to $1.11 in 1996 dollars - "a stunning statistic," said the committee's chairwoman, Doreen M. Frasca.
Still, many riders may have trouble thinking of themselves as better off. Take the popular 30-day MetroCard. It cost $63 when introduced in 1998. Now it is $104. "It's a 65 percent inflation since 1998," said Gene Russianoff, staff attorney for the Straphangers Campaign, a riders' advocacy group. "That rivals Venezuela."
For full local Times coverage, including the growing outcry surrounding a 12-story homeless shelter set to open in Chelsea in the next month, see the N.Y./Region section.
Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.
Friends of Dominique Strauss-Kahn may have tried to bribe family members of the maid he is accused of having sexually assaulted. A person briefed on the matter said evidence from the maid's clothing matched a DNA sample taken from Mr. Strauss Kahn. [New York Post, NYT]
Numbered subway trains are late more often than lettered lines, but perhaps that is because of inaccurate metrics as much as problems with the system. [City Room, 2nd Avenue Sagas]
Harold Camping, who predicted that the world would end last Saturday, announced on Monday that the actual date of the apocalypse will be Oct. 21. [New York Post]
A federal lawsuit leveled against New York's Department of Education and being tried in United States District Court may serve as a test case for a working legal definition of bullying. [Gotham Gazette]
Top mayoral aides announced that CityTime, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's extraordinarily over-budget universal payroll system, is essentially fully operational. [Wall Street Journal] 
Neighbors of the 18-year-old Brooklyn woman accused of throwing her baby down a trash chute said she concealed her pregnancy. [Daily News]
New Yorkers and tourists alike reacted with indifference if not outright scorn to new city regulations that prohibit smoking in public places. [Wall Street Journal]
A husband and wife in Brooklyn will serve staggered year-and-a-half prison sentences for failing to pay taxes on more than $2 million in private income. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]
Three production grips working on the movie "The Amazing Spider-Man" dangled for three hours from a crane six stories up in Chinatown on Monday. [New York Post]
Two women in Irvington, N.J., have been accused of manslaughter and endangering the welfare of a child after an 8-year-old girl, one of the women's daughters, was found dead, severely malnourished and with a broken bone. [Star-Ledger]
Residents are leaving converted luxury condominiums on Greenpoint Avenue because of the stench from a neighboring poultry slaughterhouse. [The Brooklyn Paper]
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, who has instituted significant tax increases and steep budget cuts, received loud applause when he spoke before 300 certified public accountants on Monday. [CT News Junkie] 
The World Naked Bike Ride will cruise into New York on June 11. [Bike Blog NYC]

        
Numbered Subways Found to Be Pokier Than Lettered Ones
        
Behind an Old Subway Wall, a Glimpse of an Even Older One 
        
Phone Carriers Sign On to Bring Service to Subways
        
A Ghost of Transit Past (as in Last Week)
        
Answers From a Train Operator, Part 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%) Metropolitan Transportation Authority; New York City Transit; Subways; New York City Transit Authority; The Day

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; New York City Transit Authority

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



788 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Debt Arithmetic (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: You call this a death spiral?

 BODY:
The whole tone of current discussion about deficits is one of urgency: deficits must be brought down now now now or crisis looms. Where is this coming from? Not from the arithmetic.
The way the story is often told, deficits mean higher debt, which means higher interest payments, which can mean a spiral into bankruptcy. And qualitatively that's not wrong. If you put numbers to it, however, for countries that are not facing huge risk premia, the spiral is very, very slow.
Here's a sample calculation.
The latest IMF Fiscal Monitor predicts that general government in the US -- that's federal, state and local combined -- will run a deficit of 7.5 percent of GDP next year, and that net debt will be 75 percent of GDP. 
So how fast would the debt spiral be going?
You need to bear in mind that growth and inflation limit the rate of rise in the debt ratio. Suppose that we have 4 percent nominal GDP growth, which is actually low by historical standards. This shaves 3 percentage points off the rise in the debt/GDP ratio. So a year later, given those numbers, debt rises by 4.5 percentage points of GDP.
What's the interest burden of that rise? At minimum we should correct for inflation, so use the TIPS yield. That's currently below 1, but let's be pessimistic and call it 2. Even so, the added interest burden is less than one-tenth of one percent of GDP.
So even with substantial deficits, the pace of long-term budget worsening is very slow. If it's a debt death spiral, it's a slooooowww motion death spiral.
But, say the critics, psychology can change suddenly, sharply raising those interest costs. The question then is why psychology should change. Investors can do the same arithmetic I've just done; why should they panic over a small rise in the interest burden? 
Now, investors might well panic over signs of political deadlock -- but that could happen regardless of the current year's deficit.
Still, Serious People tell us that investors will turn on us unless we slash the deficit immediately -- and they know this because, well, um ...
As I've often written, we're in a strange state now where people who actually take textbook economics and simple arithmetic seriously are seen as dangerously radical and irresponsible, while people who believe in invisible bond vigilantes and confidence fairies, who claim to know what the market will want even though there's no sign of that desire in current asset prices, are viewed as Very Serious.
Anyway, the arithmetic of debt is much less scary than you might think.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



789 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Sears Holdings Changes Agency Roster

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Sears Holdings is hiring McGarryBowen, part of the Dentsu Network West unit of Dentsu, as the lead strategic and creative agency for the Sears brand. Peterson Milla Hooks in Minneapolis, also known as PMH, also is being hired to create campaigns for Kmart's apparel and home lines.

 BODY:
The Sears Holdings Corporation, which has been struggling to woo shoppers to its Sears and Kmart stores, is enlisting help in the form of two additional advertising agencies.
Sears Holdings said on Tuesday that it would hire McGarryBowen, part of the Dentsu Network West unit of Dentsu, as the lead strategic and creative agency for the Sears brand.
That assignment had been handled since 1993 by the Chicago office of Y&R, which will continue to handle other tasks for Sears that include the creation of campaigns for Sears product brands like Craftsman tools, DieHard automotive supplies and Kenmore appliances.
Also, Sears Holdings is hiring Peterson Milla Hooks in Minneapolis, also known as PMH, to create campaigns for Kmart's apparel and home lines. That assignment had been handled by DraftFCB in Chicago, which will remain the lead strategic and creative agency for the Kmart brand.The Sears and Kmart retail chains have been suffering from declines in same-store sales - stores open more than a year, which is an important measure of retail health. Those declines have persisted even after sales for many other retailers have recovered after the recession.
In the first quarter, Sears Holdings reported last week, same-store sales for the Sears chain domestically fell 5.2 percent compared with the same quarter a year ago.
And same-store sales at Kmart stores fell 1.6 percent compared with the same period a year ago.
Sears Holdings executives have a policy of only discussing quarterly results when quarterly earnings are announced, a spokeswoman said. So in a telephone interview on Tuesday, David Friedman, president of marketing at Sears Holdings in Hoffman Estates, Ill., declined to discuss the results at the two chains.
More generally, he said, "We felt it was an appropriate time to bring another agency into the mix."
In the case of Sears, "we have found in our research in talking to our customers a great deal of latent equity in the Sears brand," Mr. Friedman said.
"We were looking to move to an additional agency with a goal to find an idea that would tap into that equity and build the brand long-term."
Asked if Y&R was unable to do that, he replied the idea was to seek an agency that would "tackle the problem perhaps in a slightly different way."
Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP, has handled the Sears account on its own since August 2005, when it added the product brand assignments from another WPP agency, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide.
Ogilvy had worked on the Sears brand for 43 years when it was dismissed.
The loss of the Sears brand work is another setback for Y&R, which has recently lost many large accounts like MetLife in the United States, Hilton Hotels and 7Up, the latter to McGarryBowen.
Although during that time Y&R also gained assignments from companies like Goldman Sachs, the account departures were seen as a contributing factor to a change at the top of the agency in February.
At that time, Hamish McLennan relinquished his post as chief executive of Y&R to David Sable, vice chairman and chief operating officer of another Young & Rubicam Brands agency, Wunderman.
The Sears brand spent an estimated $365 million on advertising last year, and the Kmart brand spent an estimated $125 million.
It was not possible to ascertain what spending would go forward with campaigns from McGarryBowen and Peterson Milla Hooks and what spending would go forward with campaigns from Y&R and DraftFCB.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); BRAND EQUITY (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%) sears holdings corporation; Advertising and Marketing; Dentsu; Kmart Corp; Sears Holdings Corp; Sears Holdings Corp|SHLD|NASDAQ; advertising; Marketing

COMPANY: SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (96%); KMART CORP (95%); WPP PLC (85%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); DRAFTFCB INC (69%); PETERSON MILLA HOOKS (57%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Dentsu; Kmart Corp; Sears Holdings Corp

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (96%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (85%); WPP (LSE) (85%) Sears Holdings Corp; SHLD; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (96%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (95%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (85%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



790 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2102 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter.

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Community Banks Lobby to Limit New Regulations | Ads blanketing the Washington area right now have one clear message: lawmakers and regulators should tread lightly on small banks.
The community banking industry has started a campaign aimed at overturning certain aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, especially consumer protection rules and limits on debit card fees, DealBook reports. Their argument is that profits will fall, and perhaps even a few institutions will fail.
But the regulation may not be as burdensome as the advertising campaign -- or the $1.2 million spent on lobbying in the first quarter -- implies. Community banks and credit unions won exemptions from several of the law's toughest provisions, and some of the rules put small banks on more equal footing with big banks.DealBook 
Cancer Sharpens Focus of Forstmann's Philanthropy | Theodore J. Forstmann, one of the original private equity moguls, who coined the term "barbarians at the gate," is tired.
Drained from treatments for brain cancer, Mr. Forstmann is still in the office because he believes he has work to accomplish. It is continuing the turnaround of IMG, the agency he bought in 2004. It is a task where much has been accomplished, but whose deadline is near, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in his latest DealBook column.
His goal, he says, is to generate more profit for philanthropy. More specifically, buying IMG was to "make a bunch of money, get it out of this thing and spend it on the kids in the world."DEALBOOK
DEAL NOTES
SkyBridge Chief to Raise Money for Romney | Anthony Scaramucci, the hedge fund manager who famously told Barack Obama that the president's attitude toward Wall Street had left him feeling like a "pinata," is holding a fund-raiser for Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and private equity executive hoping to lead the Republican presidential ticket, MarketWatch reports.MARKETWATCH | DEALBOOK 
Billing Less by Paying Less | To keep a lid on costs, big law firms are restructuring themselves, hiring lawyers for jobs that are in small towns, off the partner track, and that pay about half as much.New York Times 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
EBay's Plans for Its Skype Windfall | John Donahoe, eBay's chief executive, told The Wall Street Journal that the $2.4 billion his company is set to be paid for selling Skype to Microsoft would possibly go to new deals or share buybacks.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Is Burkle Preparing to Fight Malone Over Barnes & Noble? | The Yucaipa Companies, the investment firm controlled by Ronald Burkle, disclosed that it had bought an additional 603,000 shares of the bookseller Barnes & Noble for about $18.49 apiece, leading to speculation that the investor might push for a higher price from John Malone's Liberty Media, which last week announced a $17 a share bid for the company.DOW JONES | DEALBOOK 
Hertz to Begin Exchange Offer for Dollar Thrifty | Hertz's bid for Dollar Thrifty is set to advance this week as the car rental company opens a direct exchange for shares of Dollar Thrifty in an offer Hertz insists is friendly.REUTERS 
Nestle to Buy U.S. Healthcare Firm | Nestle has agreed to purchase Prometheus Laboratories, an American company specializing in gastrointestinal diagnostics, as the Swiss food giant moves further into health care.REUTERS 
Johnson & Johnson Strikes Russian Deal | In an emerging market gambit, Johnson & Johnson said it would buy several Russian cough and cold medicine brands from J B Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals in a deal worth $260 million.REUTERS | PRESS RELEASE 
Bitterness in Kraft and Cadbury's Merger | More than a year after Kraft's offer for Cadbury was accepted, frictions between the American company and British lawmakers continue, and the slow, painful work of integration has led to a raft of departures among Cadbury executives, The Financial Times writes.FINANCIAL TIMES 
Going Organic | M.&A. is heating up in Europe's organic foods sector, attracting the attention of investors like Carl C. Icahn.NEW YORK TIMES 
Iceland Foods Founder Still Wants to Buy His Company Back | Malcolm Walker told Reuters that he had no plans to sell his minority stake in the frozen food retailer, which is being auctioned by Landsbanki, the failed Icelandic bank.
Reports surfaced this week that William Morrison of Britain may be looking at Iceland Foods, while private equity firms are also expected to get into the action.REUTERS 
The Winners With Jimmy Choo? Everybody | TowerBrook Capital has shown what private equity can do when it wants to expand a business, and Labelux has acquired a brand that is poised for growth in China, for a decent multiple at that.REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS 
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Goldman: Back in the (Former) U.S.S.R. | Goldman Sachs has attempted to infiltrate the Russian market twice before in the last 17 years without much success. This time, the lender is chasing after deals with a $1 billion private equity bet, and negotiating with the Kremlin for advisory roles. The campaign looks to be paying off.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Barclays Capital Hires Former Fed Official | Brian F. Madigan, who played a leading role in the Fed's emergency lending programs during the financial crisis, will be a senior policy adviser at Barclays Capital.DealBook 
Bank of America to Settle Overdraft Case | A deal brokered in a Miami court would see Bank of America pay $410 million as a settlement in a class-action case over charges linked to debit card overdrafts.New York Times 
Face-Off Over Swaps | Royal Bank of Canada is in a tussle with a Pennsylvania school district that the lender says owes it $10 million tied to an interest-rate swap deal. While many cities and local governments were lured into such swaps before the financial crisis, this one has a twist: the school district did not actually borrow the money the swap was based on, or build the school the nonexistent loan was slated for.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
PRIVATE EQUITY 
For Carlyle Investors, a Record Quarter | The Carlyle Group, which invested $7 billion last year on increased buyout activity, distributed a record $6.4 billion to investors in the first quarter, the private equity firm said in its annual report, which was released on Monday.BLOOMBERG NEWS | PRESS RELEASE 
Blackstone to Sell Canadian Real Estate | Blackstone, the private equity firm and asset manager, has hired CIBC World Markets to sell dozens of Canadian properties with a goal of bringing in about $920 million, Bloomberg News reports.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Guo Guangchang's Long Game | The Chinese billionaire Guo Guangchang has a role model, and it's Warren E. Buffett. Mr. Guo is combining private equity and a value-investing mentality in his search for deals, and quotes from the Oracle of Omaha are never far from his lips, The Financial Times reports.FINANCIAL TIMES 
A Home for Chinese 'Orphans'? | Chinese firms that have listed in America only to see their share prices stagnate may find new hope in the private equity industry, which has a number of deals in the pipeline to delist firms whose prospects may be more promising than the public market is ready to recognize.REUTERS 
BlackRock Adds Private Equity to Its Line-Up | BlackRock has hired the three founders of Merrill Lynch's private equity business to lead the build-out of its own private equity platform, which the asset manager said it expected to expand to include about 20 professionals within the next year.Pensions & Investments | PRESS RELEASE 
HEDGE FUNDS 
Paulson Wants Rival Lehman Creditors to Disclose Holdings | The hedge fund run by John Paulson has asked a court to require Goldman Sachs and others in a rival creditor group to disclose details of their claims against Lehman Brothers, as the two groups seek to push their respective liquidation plans for the failed investment bank.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Fund Seeders Seek Next Big Thing in Asia | Morgan Stanley said it was negotiating several deals on behalf of investors looking to seed new Asian hedge funds, as institutions and wealthy individuals compete to back the industry's next winners.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Fund of Funds Firms to Merge | Saguenay Capital, based in New York, and Strathmore Capital of London will combine to form a firm with $2 billion in assets under management, the latest deal in a sector that is seeking scale after taking a beating in the financial crisis.PENSIONS & INVESTMENTS | REUTERS 
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Yandex Is Set for $1.3 Billion Stock Offering | Yandex, one of the largest Web companies in Russia, is pricing its offering at $25 a share, well above expectations, according to a person briefed on the matter.DealBook 
Rattner: The Inflating Tech Bubble | In an Op-Ed for The Financial Times, Steven L. Rattner calls the LinkedIn I.P.O. "the most tangible manifestation" of a euphoria that exhibits all the symptoms of a tech bubble.
"With revenues of just $243 million in 2010 and 19 pages of risk factors in its offering prospectus, it struck pay dirt on Wall Street," Mr. Rattner writes.FINANCIAL TIMES 
Glencore Shares Still Below I.P.O. | Tuesday was the first official day of trading for Glencore shares on the London Stock Exchange, and while they rose 10.5 pence, or 2 percent, in late morning trading, their price of 5.24 apiece is still below what they sold for in the initial public offering.REUTERS | BLOOMBERG NEWS
Spanish Lotto Nearer to 7.5 Billion Euro I.P.O. | The chief of the Spanish lottery, Loterias y Apuestas del Estado, told The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday that Madrid was getting nearer to choosing the financial advisers that would help it take the company public, in an initial public offering that could be worth as much as 7.5 billion euros ($10.6 billion).WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Chrysler to Pay Off Loans. Next Up, an I.P.O.? | The automaker is set to announce the repayment of some $7.5 billion in government loans, a move that will allow Fiat to raise its stake in Chrysler and may bring the company closer to an initial public offering.REUTERS | WALL STREET JOURNAL 
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Britain Plans 2012 Debut for Green Bank | The state-backed green investment bank, the first of its kind, will be seeded with 3 billion ($4.8 billion) from the British Treasury and aims "to bridge the gap between venture capital and the green economy," Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said.ASSOCIATED PRESS | BBC 
Rent the Runway Sashays Away With $15 Million | Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers paid the entire $15 million raised in the round for the start-up Rent the Runway, which lets women achieve their luxury ambitions by renting designer dresses and accessories by mail.BITS 
With New App, Do@ Seeks to Tailor Mobile Search | Do@, which is looking to take on Google in the mobile search arena, has received $7 million in financing, led by Draper Fisher Jurvetson.BITS 
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Schneiderman Extends Mortgage Investigation | JPMorgan Chase, Deutsche Bank and UBS are said to have each been subpoenaed by Attorney General Eric Schneiderman of New York as he extends his investigation into mortgage securitization, Bloomberg News reports. Four bond insurers are also being investigated.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Madoff Trustee Disputes Mets Owners' Claims of Cooperation | In their legal fight, the trustee for the victims of Bernard L. Madoff's fraud and the owners of the Mets are at odds over just how transparent the club's owners, Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, have been during the investigation of their finances.NEW YORK TIMES 
S.E.C. to Join Fray in Forex Inquiry? | The agency is scrutinizing foreign currency trades by Bank of New York Mellon and State Street, which are accused by a whistle-blower group of misrepresenting the activity and mispricing trades for their pension fund clients, according to The Wall Street Journal.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Moody's Puts 14 British Banks on List for Review | Moody's is looking at downgrading the debt ratings of 14 British banks, including Lloyds and Royal Bank of Scotland, concerned that when the British government cuts its support, credit risks will rise.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Chinese Company Under Baleful Eye of S.E.C. | The software maker Longtop, which provides applications to financial services companies, has seen its chief financial officer resign, its auditor Deloitte drop the account and now it is coming under regulatory scrutiny in the United States, where it listed in 2007.REUTERS 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY BANKS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); MERGERS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (69%); BRAIN CANCER (68%); CANCER (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); BOOKSTORES (62%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (61%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (60%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: YUCAIPA COS LLC (60%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (60%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: THEODORE FORSTMANN (72%); JOHN MALONE (67%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); RON BURKLE (50%); JOHN DONAHOE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



791 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: The Mets' Rocky Finances

BYLINE: RICHARD SANDOMIR


HIGHLIGHT: The prospective buyer of 49 percent of the Mets, whomever it is, will inherit a team in serious financial straits, as emphasized by recent comment from the Mets owner Fred Wilpon.

 BODY:
The prospective buyer of 49 percent of the Mets, whomever it is, will inherit a team in serious financial straits. The Mets are seeking $200 million for the minority stake.
Fred Wilpon, the Mets' principal owner, discussed the team's finances in the current issues of The New Yorker and Sports Illustrated. But information about the team's bottom line has been previously reported by The New York Times.
The Mets have told bidders for the team that they lost $51 million last season and expect to lose $60 million this year. The 10 percent falloff in attendance so far this season could push those losses even higher.
The team had gate receipts of $180 million in 2009, its first season at Citi Field, but they tumbled to $115 million last year. This season, they were expected to be $117 million, but bidders were told that that figure was based on attendance staying flat.
The Mets have a consistent flow of cash coming from its cable network SNY, which is unimpeded regardless of the team's on-field performance. Bidders were told that local broadcasting revenue, most of it from SNY, was $64 million in 2009, $66 million in 2010 and is $68 million this season. By 2015, the Mets project the figure to rise to $83 million. The Mets own 65 percent of SNY, with the rest owned by Time Warner Cable and Comcast.
But the impact of the recession, high prices at Citi Field and poor play was seen starkly in a 35 percent tumble in revenue last year from 10,635 premium seats to $64.5 million, according to documents filed with the city's Industrial Development Agency.
The filing with the I.D.A., which issued Citi Field's tax-exempt bonds, showed that the profit at the stadium fell to $52.5 million last year from $98.7 million in 2009.
The state of Mets' finances could be drastically altered if the owners are liable for $1 billion being sought by the trustee for the victims of Bernard L. Madoff's fraud. The trustee, Irving H. Picard, alleges that the owners, Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, turned a blind eye to warnings that Madoff might have been suspect.
The Mets have denied the accusations and charged that Picard had fabricated and distorted evidence.
The Mets have until next month to repay a $25 million loan to Major League Baseball, which was made last November. They have also borrowed up to their $75 million limit from baseball's industrywide credit line.

        
Keeping Score: Wilpon's Scapegoats vs. Steinbrenner's
        
M.L.S. Would Welcome Wilpons as Owners
        
Alderson Faces Fans and Acknowledges a 'Perception' Issue
        
Madoff Trustee Sues Mets Owners
        
Selig Is Happy Mets Took His Advice on Alderson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%) fred wilpon; Mets; Wilpon, Fred; New York Mets

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%) New York Mets

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); TWC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (78%) Wilpon, Fred

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



792 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Lawmakers Vote to Delay Derivatives Rules

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: A divided House panel approved a bill that would freeze crucial regulations stemming from the Dodd-Frank Act until September 2012, more than two years after the law was enacted.

 BODY:
A House panel approved a plan on Tuesday to delay several rules for the $600 trillion derivatives market, a leading player in the financial crisis. 
The bill would freeze crucial regulations stemming from the Dodd-Frank Act until September 2012, more than two years after the law was enacted and 14 months after the rules were scheduled to take effect. 
After a contentious debate, the Republican-controlled House Financial Services Committee approved the measure in a 30-to-24 vote, entirely along party lines. A version of the bill also passed the House Agriculture Committee this month.
The bill's Republican sponsors contend that regulators are unnecessarily rushing dozens of new derivatives rules to meet July deadlines. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in recent weeks acknowledged they would miss the deadlines, saying they would put the finishing touches on the rules by late 2011. 
"There's no need to rush to meet arbitrary deadlines," said Representative Spencer Bachus, Republican of Alabama and chairman of the Financial Services Committee. He added that the bill was "needed to restore order to the Dodd-Frank derivatives rule-making process."
Regulators have proposed dozens of new derivatives regulations over the last year under Dodd-Frank, including a plan that would require many derivatives contracts to be traded on regulated exchanges and run through clearinghouses, which act as a backstop in case one party defaults.
In the lead-up to the financial crisis, investors bought billions of dollars worth of derivative contracts as insurance on risky mortgage-backed securities. When the underlying mortgages soured, some companies that sold the contracts lacked the capital to honor their agreements.
The new bill, Democrats said, would prevent regulators from enforcing restrictions that were needed to prevent another crisis.
"It's not a bill to give the regulators more time; it is a bill to prevent the regulators from acting," said Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the committee's ranking Democrat and a main architect of the Dodd-Frank law. "I think that's a great error."
Despite the partisan wrangling, the bill is largely a symbolic gesture. Even if the entire House were to approve the measure, it would likely die in the Senate, which is controlled by Democrats.
Still, Democrats pushed back against the bill on Tuesday, hoping to deter future legislation. 
Mr. Frank even secured several concessions from the bill's Republican authors, including an amendment to start the rules in September 2012 rather than December, as Republicans originally planned. Republicans also agreed to exempt several crucial provisions from the delays, including the requirement that derivatives trades go through clearinghouses and a provision forcing banks to spin off their derivatives desks.
But the bill would still delay the start date for certain capital requirements and rules prohibiting banks from controlling clearinghouses. 
Republicans said the delays were not aimed at gutting the law, but rather slowing down its implementation. 
"It's not repealing any rule, it's just setting a more deliberative rule-making process," Mr. Bachus said, adding that he had hoped the plan would draw bipartisan support. 
Mr. Frank retorted: "If you want bipartisan support, don't draft a bill by yourselves without consulting us."

        
Last Stop in Congress for the Financial Bill 
        
House Financial Services Committee Goes Digital

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (92%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (92%); APPROVALS (92%); FUTURES (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%) Barney Frank; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Derivatives; Dodd-Frank Act; House Financial Services Committee; Securities and Exchange Commission; Spencer Bachus; Bachus, Spencer; Frank, Barney; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; House Financial Services Committee; Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: SPENCER BACHUS (90%); BARNEY FRANK (89%) Bachus, Spencer; Frank, Barney

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



793 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Exit Daniels

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: His departure leaves the Republican field thin on politicians with recent governing experience.

 BODY:
The world may not have ended on Saturday, but for conservatives pinning their hopes for 2012 on a Mitch Daniels presidential campaign, the weekend did feel a little bit like the opening of the sixth seal in the Book of Revelation. (As with any apocalyptic development, commentary is a bit superfluous: 48 hours later, there's not much to say about Daniels' family-driven bow-out except that it's a big disappointment to anyone who cares about American conservatism, and that what I said about the 2012 campaign in this column still applies:... Every presidential election matters, but Daniels and [Paul] Ryan are right to see the 2012 campaign as a potential hinge moment in American domestic politics. The unpopularity of President Obama's agenda, the obvious unsustainability of blue-state spending habits (evident in budget battles from California to New York) and the looming entitlement crisis have created a remarkable opportunity for conservatives to reimagine government's role - to look "beyond the welfare state," as Yuval Levin argues in the latest issue of National Affairs, and try to discern what come next.
But the right's opportunity could easily be lost. The public loves to vote for leaner government and then recoil from the reality. Already there's a backlash against conservative governors in states like Wisconsin and Ohio who are perceived to be cutting too much too fast. When Ryan and his colleagues release what promises to be an ambitious plan for entitlement reform next week, they'll be putting a bull's-eye on their party's back ...This is where a Daniels candidacy seemed to make a lot of sense. There were quite a few reasons why right-of-center wonks were excited about the Indiana governor, but one of his more striking advantages as a candidate was that he was actually a successful sitting governor, as opposed to a figure like Mitt Romney whose governing record was compiled in the very different world that existed before the Great Recession. For the party of limited government, an era of austerity presents opportunities but also temptations: It's easy to look at the exigencies of the moment and see a mandate just waiting to be implemented, rather than a transition that needs to be very carefully finessed. And across his two terms as Indiana governor - spanning the end of the Bush boom, the financial crisis, and then the current economic crunch - Daniels seemed to have mastered precisely that sort of finesse, accomplishing more for conservatism than almost any other state executive, but with a deftness and sensitivity that reassured voters that he actually cared about making government work, rather than just cutting it for the sake of cutting.
Many of his fellow Republicans have not been as successful: Hence the unpopularity of G.O.P. governors across the Midwest, and the backlash against Paul Ryan's courageous-but-flawed budget. But the current 2012 front-runner has never even had to try governing in this environment. Indeed, Romney's famous health care bill (with sought access first, and promised cost containment later) is arguably the quintessential example of public policy that looks reasonable in an age of go-go growth, and irresponsible in an age of austerity. If I were Tim Pawlenty, now Romney's only plausible rival for the nomination, I would be sure to highlight this point: Of the two men left standing, only Pawlenty has governing experience in the post-bubble, post-financial crisis era. (Of course, Romney can point out that Pawlenty wasn't exactly a popular governor in that era ....)
Meanwhile, as Michael Barone notes, primary voters looking for a 2012 candidate who currently holds elected office now have just one place to turn: Congressman Ron Paul.

        
The Nomination Nobody Wants
        
The Lessons of Gingrich v. Ryan
        
Mitch Daniels and the Talk Radio Right
        
Presidential Politics After Bin Laden
        
Exit Barbour

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%) 2012; conservatism; Mitch Daniels; Mitt Romney; Paul Ryan; the horse race; Tim Pawlenty

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



794 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: C.E.O. of the U.S.A.

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Business acumen and experience are being emphasized by the early presidential contenders.

 BODY:
The job of the president is technically that of the chief executive of the United States. But I'm still fascinated by the extent to which business acumen is being emphasized by the early presidential contenders.Chris Usher/CBS-TV, via Associated PressNewt Gingrich, small-business man, on "Face the Nation.""I think I have proven I can manage money," Newt Gingrich said Sunday on the CBS News program "Face the Nation." "As a small-business man I run four small businesses. They have been profitable. They've employed people. This is the opposite of the Obama model."
And here was Donald Trump, back when he was toying with a run: "I'm a much bigger businessman and have a much, much bigger net worth. I mean my net worth is many, many, many times Mitt Romney," Mr. Trump told CNN's Candy Crowley. "Mitt Romney is a basically small-business guy, if you really think about it. He was a hedge fund. He was a funds guy. He walked away with some money from a very good company that he didn't create. He worked there. He didn't create it."
Mr. Romney, of course, has emphasized his record as head of the private equity firm Bain Capital: "My experience, my history is in turning things around. I will get America on the right track again."
I do wonder how smoothly business executive experience translates to being president of the United States. There is a very different set of stakeholders to please and negotiate with. The budget issues are quite different, too, and not only because the federal government can print money and businesses can't.
To some extent "big business" has been vilified in the last few years, in part because of the financial crisis and in part because there has been so little hiring even as profits soared. So whatever its actual relevance to qualifications for the presidency, it will be interesting to see how effective the "I'm a big-business man" rhetoric is with voters. Presumably this has already been focus-grouped.
Note that the last time this became a major talking was in the 2000 presidential campaign, when George W. Bush's business experience -- and his M.B.A., as he became the first president ever to hold such a degree -- was cited as evidence of his facility with fiscal constraint.
I'll let readers come to their conclusions about how accurate that projection was.

        
Is the Fair Tax Herman Cain's Ace in the Hole?
        
Unemployed Mother's Day
        
Women in Politics, Around the World
        
Does the Ryan Plan Curb Health Spending? 
        
A Time for Radical Centrists

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); BUDGETS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); WOMEN (64%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%) big business; Donald Trump; Mitt Romney; Newt Gingrich; politics; Elections; United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); DONALD TRUMP (86%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HERMAN CAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



795 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: For Republican Hopefuls, the Bush Primary Is Well Under Way

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: For Republicans who want to be president, one of the most crucial primaries is well under way: the Bush primary.

 BODY:
For Republicans who want to be president, one of the most crucial primaries is well under way: the Bush primary.
Jon Huntsman, the former governor of Utah, spent Monday afternoon in Kennebunkport, Me., having lunch with the elder George Bush - the 41st president and one of the keys to earning the support of a vast network of political operatives, donors, surrogates and activists.
The private lunch with Mr. Huntsman was not an endorsement by Mr. Bush, who held a similar meeting several weeks ago with Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota and now an official candidate for president. The elder Mr. Bush is also close to Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts.
But it's a reminder that in Republican politics, the Bush family's political operation remains an important piece of the puzzle for presidential hopefuls. 
In 2008, the candidates had a somewhat more delicate task as they sought to raise money and support from the Bushes and their supporters while also trying to distance themselves from the younger President Bush and some of the more unpopular policies and legacies of his administration.
Senator John McCain of Arizona, in particular, struggled to balance his connections to the younger Bush. The two men had been bitter rivals for the Republican nomination in 2000 and had clashed repeatedly over issues like torture and judges during Mr. Bush's eight years in the White House.
Still, soon after Mr. McCain clinched the Republican nomination in 2000, Mr. McCain made a ceremonial visit to the White House for a set of Rose Garden pictures with Mr. Bush and then a meeting with his top advisers at the Republican National Committee headquarters.
The current crop of Republican hopefuls will have fewer concerns about being tied to George W. Bush's policies, which are less immediate after a few years of President Obama's tenure in the White House. That leaves them free to openly court the family's network, which has loomed over Republican politics for more than two decades.
Here is a rundown of their targets over the next several months:
1. The Family. The ultimate goal for the Republican nominees would be a direct endorsement from one or both of the two former presidents as well as from Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida. That seems unlikely if the past - when none of those Bushes endorsed anyone during the 2008 Republican primary - is any indication.
But there have been hints that Mr. Romney might have an upper hand with the family. Many of his advisers are close to the elder Mr. Bush, who told CNN's Larry King last year that Mr. Romney is "a reasonable guy. A conservative fellow, which is good" and added that "I think he'd be a good president, a very good president."
2. The Political Operatives: The race to snatch up parts of the Bush political team has been going on for months as the Republican candidates have been assembling their operations.
In this part of the primary, Mr. Pawlenty has been especially aggressive. His campaign is getting advice from Terry Nelson, the political director for the younger Mr. Bush's 2004 reelection campaign. Also on Mr. Pawlenty's campaign: Sara Fagen, who worked as Mr. Bush's political director in the White House.
The most prominent operative for the younger Mr. Bush, Karl Rove, is now a Fox News contributor and a columnist for The Wall Street Journal - and is not likely to publicly offer up his choice for a nominee anytime soon.
3. The Donors. Perhaps the most important part of the Bush primary is the race to tap into the money machine that the Bush family built over the years. The younger Mr. Bush, especially, assembled a large network of wealthy donors who bundled contributions for both of his campaigns.
Many of those donors have been waiting to see who would formally enter the Republican race before they committed to any one candidate. Several had previously said they were planning to support Haley Barbour, the governor of Mississippi, or Mitch Daniels, the governor of Indiana - both of whom chose not to run. Mr. Daniels served as budget director for the younger Mr. Bush and was seen - until his announcement on Saturday night - as a likely recipient of a good deal of financial support from the financial network of his former boss.
Mr. Romney's display of fund-raising prowess this month - a $10 million haul announced after a single day of organized calling - suggests that he has a head-start on wooing many of the Bush-family donors. 
4. The Surrogates. In the fast-paced television and Internet media cycle, candidates must have surrogates who are willing to make the campaign's pitch and give it credibility. Having surrogates connected to the Bush family can be invaluable for the Republican candidates.
The race to recruit the surrogates is taking place at the national level, where Republican hopefuls need high-profile political figures to validate their candidacies. But it's also taking place state by state, as the campaigns look for surrogates in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina.
5. The Activists. The most important task may be connecting with the network of activists in each state who helped elect both President Bushes to office. 
There is much attention these days on the Tea Party movement, which provided a significant amount of political energy during the 2010 midterm elections. But there is little agreement about how large or effective the movement actually is in helping candidates win office.
That's not the case with the Bush activists, whose loyalty to both men has been tested and proved during both primary and general elections for years.

        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
Lots of Talk, but Still No 2012 Republican Candidates
        
New Groups Form to Raise Millions for Democrats
        
Attacks on Romney Confirm Front-Runner Status
        
The Case for Obama Campaigning on the Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%) 2008; 2010 midterm elections; barack obama; campaign cash; campaign fund-raising; CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; george bush; George W. Bush; jeb bush; john mccain; jon huntsman; mitt romney; Political Advertising; Republicans; tim pawlenty; Bush, George W; Daniels, Mitchell E Jr; McCain, John; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Rove, Karl; Endorsements; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2000; Presidential Election of 2008; Republican Party; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The First Family; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); TIM PAWLENTY (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); KARL ROVE (73%); MITCH DANIELS (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Bush, George W; Daniels, Mitchell E Jr; McCain, John; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Rove, Karl

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



796 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Yandex's Surge on Debut Stirs More Talk of Tech Bubble

BYLINE: ANDREW KRAMER and EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: The 55 percent rise in the Russian Internet company's shares, after LinkedIn's stock more than doubled, raised concerns about whether the I.P.O. market is becoming too frothy. 

 BODY:
Shares of Yandex, a Russian search engine barely known in the United States, surged by more than 55 percent on Tuesday, signifying the latest multibillion-dollar technology offering and stoking the debate about whether this market has the makings of a bubble.
The debut of Yandex defied already lofty expectations, coming on the heels of the initial public offering of LinkedIn, the professional networking site whose shares more than doubled on their first day of trading.
The Russian company, whose shares were priced as much as 25 percent higher than earlier estimates, raised $1.3 billion, the largest Internet offering in the United States since Google went public in 2004. The stock closed at $38.84 on Tuesday, up from its $25 offering price.
"Yandex serves as yet another data point that we are at the start of a growth cycle for I.P.O.'s," said Paul Bard, the director of research for the I.P.O. advisory firm Renaissance Capital. "Over all, investors have been starved for innovative, rapidly growing enterprises in new industries."
But the strong demand -- fervor even -- for technology offerings is once again fanning concerns about market froth. In recent weeks, a number of multibillion-dollar Internet companies have enjoyed robust first-day pops like Yandex and LinkedIn, drawing unfavorable comparisons to the ill-fated dot-com boom.
Renren, called the Facebook of China, jumped 29 percent after its debut in early May. LinkedIn, which had recently traded in the secondary markets at an implied valuation of $2.5 billion, is now valued at more than $8 billion.
As befitting a technology start-up, Yandex had scrappy beginnings. A Russian mathematician, Arkady Volozh, and a geophysicist, Ilya Segalovich, founded the company in 1997, using an algorithm they invented to scan the Cyrillic script of the Russian Bible and classical literature.
The country's programmers have traditionally excelled at mathematically complex tasks like those involved in searches, tapping a rich tradition of scientific education in the Soviet Union. 
The Yandex offering underscores the appeal of companies with a strong claim to a rapidly expanding sector -- Internet advertising -- in emerging economies that are projected to grow more swiftly than those of in the United States and Western Europe. Such companies are valued for knowing how to navigate the Web and the delicate politics of their home markets.
Investors have closely watched Yandex, based in Moscow, since the sharp rise in the value of the Chinese search engine Baidu, another regional challenger to Google. Baidu rose 354 percent on its first day of trading in August 2005, the biggest one-day increase since the dot-com bust, according to Renaissance Capital. Although shares slumped following the I.P.O., the company now trades at nearly $130, up from its offering price of $27.
The Russian Internet market is the second largest in Europe, after Germany, according to a report released on Friday by the Boston Consulting Group. The report estimated online commerce in the country would increase to 3.7 percent of the gross domestic product by 2015 from 1.9 percent in 2009, as broadband makes its way into the Russian provinces.
Yandex, which caters to the world's roughly 270 million Russian speakers, generates more searches in Russia than Google. The company reported net income of $134.3 million on revenue of $439.7 million last year.
"This is the Google of Russia," said Scott Sweet, a senior managing partner of I.P.O. Boutique. "They are profitable, their growth is outstanding and they have over 60 percent market share."
Still, the company faces significant political risk, as Yandex indicated in a regulatory filing. While President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia has often expressed desire to expand online commerce as an outlet for the country's rich scientific legacy, tight government control of political news could intensify as Internet use expands.
Just last month, a deputy director of the Federal Security Services, the successor agency to the K.G.B., said authorities were studying whether to ban sites like Skype or Google's G-mail that use encryption inaccessible to Russian law enforcement agencies.
A Russian government commission is expected to present its recommendations on how such sites might be closed later this year. Some interpretations of a 1993 law on encryption suggest these sites would be illegal if a Russian-based subsidiary charged for their services.
Yandex's founders originally planned an offering in 2008. But they delayed it after the onset of the global recession.
During that time, they negotiated the sale of a symbolic stake to a Russian state-controlled bank, Sberbank, in an indication of the political risks of rising Internet use in Russia. Other co-owners of Yandex include Tiger Global Management, an American investment firm; Baring Vostok, a Russian-focused fund; and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation. 
"This is a demarcation point" for Russian Internet businesses, said Peter N. Loukianoff, a co-founder of Almaz Capital Partners, a venture capital firm and an early investor in Yandex. 
The listing, he said, signals a new phase of "intellectual wealth creation in Russia," a country where most billionaires made their money on the privatization of oil fields and mines.
"Russia now has a Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak," he said of Mr. Volozh and Mr. Segalovich. 
Yandex follows the $912 million offering last year of Mail.ru, a Russian Internet conglomerate that owns a minority stake in Facebook. In a sign of the country's growing prominence on the global scene, the chairman of the company, Yuri Milner, recently bought a $100 million home in Silicon Valley.

        
Yandex Is Set for $1.3 Billion Stock Offering
        
Investor Hunger for Foreign Tech Stocks Overrides Risk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (70%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (50%) Almaz Capital Partners; Arkady Volozh; Baidu; Baring Vostock Private Equity Funds; Bubbles; Facebook; Google; Ilya Segalovich; LinkedIn; Mail.ru Group; Renren; Tiger Global Management; Yandex; Computers and the Internet; Initial Public Offerings; LinkedIn Corporation; LinkedIn Corporation|LNKD|NYSE; I.P.O./Offerings; Technology; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: YANDEX NV (92%); LINKEDIN CORP (91%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LinkedIn Corporation; Yandex

TICKER: YNDX (NASDAQ) (92%); LNKD (NYSE) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%) LinkedIn Corporation; LNKD; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



797 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Music Executive Giving $5 Million to N.Y.U. to Expand Music Business Program

BYLINE: FELICIA R. LEE


HIGHLIGHT: The Clive Davis Department will become the Clive Davis Institute.

 BODY:
The music executive Clive Davis is giving an additional $5 million gift to the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, allowing the expansion of the Clive Davis Department of Recorded Music into the Clive Davis Institute of Recorded Music, school officials announced Tuesday. The gift will make it possible for the school to recruit additional working professionals as faculty members, establish a generous scholarship fund, facilitate the recruitment of young talent from around the world and increase the number of students, university officials said in a statement. Two new programs will be created to bring in talented high school students. Future Music Moguls will be a free program for students in the New York City area, and the Summer High School Programs in Recorded Music will be open to students everywhere. 
 With a $5 million gift from Mr. Davis in 2003, the Clive Davis Department of Recorded Music opened its doors. Its curriculum was designed to provide professional training for students seeking work in the music industry as creative entrepreneurs, with courses like "The History of Def Jam" and "Branding." Twenty-eight students enrolled in the department when it opened, Richard Pierce, a spokesman for New York University said Tuesday. The expansion into an institute will allow the program to accept about 80 students, he said. 
 "The economy is in a downturn, and the music industry has always been one where you jump in by doing," Mr. Pierce said. "We have seen this increase in the last few years where people who want to get into the music business first want to get an education. This is new for the music business and a big reason Mr. Davis gave the additional $5 million to expand the program." 
Mr. Davis, who graduated from N.Y.U. in 1953, has had a storied history in the music world. He has been president of Columbia Records and held top positions at Arista, J Records, BMG U.S. Label Group and was most recently the chief creative officer of Sony BMG. Bruce Springsteen, Jennifer Hudson, Billy Joel, Alicia Keys, Janis Joplin, Blood Sweat and Tears, Santana and Whitney Houston are among the artists he signed and helped develop. Mr. Davis has won four Grammy awards for producing albums and was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001.

        
Brooklyn Concert Series Finds New Home in Coney Island
        
See Me, Feel Me, Touch Me, Read Me: HarperCollins Lands Pete Townshend Memoir
        
Dylan Responds to Reports of Censorship in China
        
Strawberry Fields, Not Quite Forever: Gates at Beatles Landmark Are Removed
        
Charges Are Resolved in Bieber 2009 Mall Stampede Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (94%); MUSIC (93%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); RECORD INDUSTRY (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%) New York University; pop/rock music; Houston, Whitney; Joplin, Janis; Keys, Alicia; Springsteen, Bruce; Music; Philanthropy; BMG Entertainment; Columbia Records; J Records; Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum; Tisch School of the Arts; New York City; arts general

ORGANIZATION: BMG Entertainment; Columbia Records; J Records; New York University; Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum; Tisch School of the Arts

PERSON: WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (78%); ALICIA KEYS (78%) Houston, Whitney; Joplin, Janis; Keys, Alicia; Springsteen, Bruce

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



798 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Single-Family Homes Rose in April

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- New single-family home sales rose for a second consecutive month in April and the supply was the lowest in a year, but a surplus of previously owned homes continued to weigh on the market. 
The Commerce Department said sales increased 7.3 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 323,000 units, the highest level since December, while prices also rose. Economists had expected a 300,000-unit rate.
All four regions recorded gains in sales, with the West reporting a 15.1 percent rise. Compared with April last year, however, sales were down 23.1 percent.
''Although the headline figure has moved sharply on a month-to-month basis, reflecting in part the impact of harsh weather in earlier months, the bottom line is that the new-home market continues to bounce along the bottom,'' said Omair Sharif, an economist at RBS in Stamford, Conn.
An oversupply of used houses and a relentless wave of foreclosed properties are curbing the market for new homes, even as builders are keeping lean inventories.
A record low 175,000 new homes were available for sale last month, down 2.8 percent from the previous month.
Data last week showed a steep drop in new home construction in April and a decline in sales of previously owned homes.
''There's still a tremendous overhang in the housing market, and while new-home sales are starting to percolate, that doesn't change the fact that we still have such huge inventory,'' said Michael Yoshikami, chief investment strategist at Ycmnet Advisors in Walnut Creek, Calif.
While the report cast a positive light on the housing market, it did little to change perceptions that the economy remained mired in a soft patch.
That view was reinforced by a Richmond Federal Reserve survey showing that manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region stalled in May, after expanding during the previous seven months.
The Richmond Fed's manufacturing index came in at minus 6, a contraction from the reading of plus 10 in April, dragged down by declines in shipments and new orders. A negative number indicates contraction.
The Commerce Department report also showed that the median sales price for a new home rose 1.6 percent last month to $217,900. Compared with April last year, the median price increased 4.6 percent.
At April's sales pace, the supply of new homes on the market dropped to 6.5 months' worth, the lowest since April last year, from 7.2 months' worth in March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FORECLOSURE (73%); NEW ORDERS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



799 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Intensifies in Yemen as the Government Battles Tribal Groups

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Laura Kasinof and Helene Cooper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Hopes for a peaceful settlement of Yemen's political crisis receded further on Tuesday as street battles intensified between government security forces and opposition tribesmen, leaving at least two dozen people dead and turning part of the Yemeni capital, Sana, into a war zone.
The fighting, which started Monday and included shelling of the Interior Ministry, threatens to spread into a broader conflict and displace the peaceful protests that began in Yemen shortly after the uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt. The Obama administration is struggling to avert that and is now weighing using the United Nations to pressure Yemen's embattled president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, to step aside. 
Mr. Saleh refused Sunday, for the third time, to sign a deal to transfer power, despite enormous pressure from the United States and regional Arab leaders.
If Mr. Saleh still refuses to sign, the United States could press for United Nations sanctions aimed at Mr. Saleh and his family members, who occupy key posts in Yemen's military and intelligence services, according to a senior administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. On Sunday, the White House counterterrorism chief, John O. Brennan, warned the Yemeni president in a phone call that ''if he doesn't sign, we're going to have to consider possible other steps,'' the official said.
The United States and Yemen's Arab neighbors are deeply concerned that the worsening political stalemate is allowing Al Qaeda's Yemeni branch -- one of the terrorist group's most dangerous and active affiliates -- to operate more freely. Already, several provinces are outside the government's control, and the economy is in free fall, with opposition-aligned tribes in eastern Yemen disrupting the flow of oil and electricity to the capital.
The fighting on Tuesday was especially ominous because several prominent tribal sheiks came under fire as they arrived to help mediate the conflict, and at least two were reported killed. Yemen's powerful tribes are well-armed and their fighters are experienced. Tribal leaders from across Yemen had begun threatening to descend on the capital with thousands of warriors to strike back at Mr. Saleh, whom they blamed for the violence.
Many Yemenis fear the bloodshed could spiral into a broader war between Mr. Saleh's supporters and tribesmen allied with the Ahmar family, whose house -- located near several important government buildings in the Hasaba district -- was at the center of the fighting.
The Ahmars are the leaders of Yemen's most powerful tribal confederation, known as Hashid. Hamid al-Ahmar, a telecom mogul, has long been a rival to the Yemeni president and is the most visible face of the political opposition that would inherit power if Mr. Saleh signs the agreement.
Another danger is an intertribal conflict. ''This is what Saleh would like to start -- a war between the tribes,'' said Muhammad Abdel Qadhi, a sheik in Mr. Saleh's own tribe, the Sanhan.
The protesters, who mostly remained camped out on the street in the area of the capital they have renamed ''Change Square'' on Tuesday, say Mr. Saleh is deliberately fomenting war so that their uprising will no longer be seen as a peaceful one, and his own continued rule will seem necessary so as to maintain calm.
The sound of exploding mortar shells could be heard throughout the capital on Tuesday, witnesses said. Opposition tribesmen shelled the Interior Ministry and other buildings for hours, and set up barricades in streets nearby, witnesses and local news reports. Much of the capital was deserted as residents cowered inside.
Each side blamed the other for the outbreak of fighting. There were varying death tolls, some as high as 40, with more than 150 said to be wounded. Yemen's Interior Ministry released a statement saying that 14 soldiers were killed Tuesday, along with a family of five civilians whose house was struck by a rocket-propelled grenade. A prominent doctor, Abdul Wahab Al Anesi, said he had learned of 24 deaths of civilians and tribesmen from several hospitals in the city, but that could not be confirmed independently.
A group of tribal sheiks who arrived at the Ahmar family compound to mediate a cease-fire issued a statement to local reporters saying they had come under fire almost immediately after arriving, despite repeated efforts to coordinate by phone with the president's loyalists. ''We decided to stop the mediation and hold the president fully responsible,'' the statement said.
So far, the high-ranking generals who defected to the opposition in March -- with their armed forces -- have not become involved. If that changes, the conflict could quickly become far bloodier, possibly spiraling into a full-scale civil war.
A political settlement has been elusive, in part, because Mr. Saleh's loyalists and the opposition deeply distrust each other. American and Arab diplomats have focused on urging Mr. Saleh to sign the agreement, under which he would transfer power in exchange for immunity from prosecution for himself and his family members.
But even if he does so, the two sides must then work out the details of a transition, a process that could be prolonged and fraught with tension. The 30-day timetable for Mr. Saleh to leave office does not start until they complete the agreement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An injured tribesman loyal to the Ahmar family was aided after clashes with the police in Sana, the capital of Yemen, on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMMAR AWAD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (87%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); POLITICS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); FAMILY (72%); AL-QAEDA (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANAA, YEMEN (93%) YEMEN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (79%); TUNISIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



800 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Agreement Reached in Albany To Cap Property Tax Rises at 2%

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Pledging to provide relief to highly taxed suburban homeowners, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and legislative leaders said Tuesday that they had agreed to place a 2 percent limit on property tax increases in a plan that rivals the toughest such measures in the nation.
The proposed property tax cap, which must be approved by the Legislature, is aimed at reversing the economic decline in many parts of the state outside of New York City. It also seeks to curb soaring property tax bills in areas like Long Island, Westchester County and pockets of upstate New York, where residents are facing some of the country's highest property taxes. 
Some residents, particularly those who are older and live on fixed incomes, are being forced out of their homes by rising property taxes.
''It is going to be a game changer, and it's going to change the trajectory of this state,'' Mr. Cuomo said.
New York has long had some of the highest property taxes in the nation, and those taxes increased by 5.5 percent, on average, each year from 1999 to 2009, according to statistics provided by the Cuomo administration.
The Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan research group, said this month that three of the five highest-taxed counties in the nation were in New York: Nassau, Westchester and Rockland Counties. In Nassau and Westchester, the median annual property tax bill exceeds $8,000.
The tax-cap agreement was welcomed by business and farm groups, but teachers' unions reacted with dismay, saying the move would cause cuts to money for education and would diminish the quality of public schools. The unions pointed to California as an example, saying a property tax cap and broader budget woes have had a harmful effect on schools in that state.
''New York would be devastated by the toughest cap in the nation at a time when its public schools have suffered three years of the toughest cuts to education,'' said Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of New York State United Teachers. ''There's no question this strikes at the heart of the educational needs of the most vulnerable students, especially children of color and children who live in poverty.''
The agreement gives the Democratic governor, who made limiting property tax increases a cornerstone of his campaign, his biggest political victory since the Legislature approved an on-time and relatively austere budget in March, and it further establishes Mr. Cuomo's record of fiscal conservatism.
The agreement, which would take effect next year, would limit the annual increase in the overall amount of property taxes collected by a local government or a school district. Property tax increases for individual homeowners could vary as properties are reassessed.
''This issue is probably the most powerful and pervasive issue across this state,'' the governor said at an appearance with legislative leaders on Tuesday. ''People in New York City don't feel it, but I can't tell you how many times somebody has come up to me and said, 'You have to do something about property taxes; I just can't afford to stay in my home anymore.' ''
The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, has said the tax cap should be approved only in concert with the renewal, and the strengthening, of rent-stabilization regulations in New York City. But Mr. Cuomo, who supports strengthening rent stabilization, and the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, a Republican from Long Island who does not, said they did not believe the rent issue would jeopardize the passage of a property tax cap before the scheduled end of the legislative session, June 20.
Forty-three other states have some limits on property taxes. But New York is unusual because property taxes are the main source of support for schools outside of New York City. In the city, the schools are primarily financed by a municipal income tax.
While some details remain to be worked out, particularly the length of time before the legislation expires, legislative leaders in both parties said they were confident that a final agreement was at hand.
''This is a great day,'' said Mr. Skelos, adding, ''New York State once again can be competitive in creating jobs, and rather than exporting people, bringing people to the state.''
Mr. Silver said, ''With this legislation, we are finally able to bring property taxes under control and still provide critical services.''
The property tax cap has been debated for more than a decade in Albany. Assembly Democrats have traditionally spurned tax-cap proposals, while Senate Republicans have floated them for years. But the opposition of powerful teachers' unions, which have influence across the aisles, previously prevented any serious negotiations.
This year, Mr. Cuomo made a property tax cap a top priority, and he used his popularity and political muscle to exert pressure on Mr. Silver, who was inclined to accommodate a fellow Democrat. Mr. Cuomo has also lined up with Mr. Silver in supporting a strengthening of rent-control regulations.
The agreement came after Mr. Silver outlined a proposal for a property tax cap that surprised tax cap advocates with its strength. The Republican-controlled Senate had approved a similar tax-cap proposal, and Senate leaders welcomed the Assembly plan, but said there were still details to negotiate.
The primary remaining disagreement between the Assembly and the Senate is how long the property tax cap would remain in place. The Senate wanted a permanent cap; the Assembly proposed that the cap last as long as rent-stabilization regulations in New York City. Still, both sides said they had agreed to the broad principles of a 2 percent cap on property tax increases.
As outlined by the Assembly, the deal would have some exemptions. Among them, contributions that school districts make into the state pension system would be partly discounted so that pension increases of more than 2 percent from the previous year would not be counted against the 2 percent cap. Districts would be able to adjust tax levies if new development in their areas increased the tax base.
The tax cap could also be overridden with 60 percent of a local school district vote.
Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a research group that favors reduced government spending, said the proposed cap would be among the most stringent in the nation. While Massachusetts has a 2.5 percent cap, the exemptions included in the New York proposal could mean the effective cap would be 2.5 percent to 3 percent, depending on pension contribution rates, he said.
''It's among the tightest tax levy caps,'' Mr. McMahon said. ''You actually have a game-changing alteration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, center, with the State Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, left, and other officials in Albany on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (96%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); SUBURBS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); STATISTICS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); TEACHER UNIONS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); EDUCATION FUNDING (64%); CHILD POVERTY (60%); CONSERVATISM (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

 
