

201 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Hardball Economics: TV contracts and luxury boxes aside, the 1930s offer lessons on how today's teams may fare in a sharp downturn.

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
In the depths of the Depression, Ray Robinson remembers with wonder, he would go to Yankee Stadium to see his heroes Lou Gehrig and Herb Pennock. He can also recall trips to the Polo Grounds with a family friend, a bootlegger who knew Giants Manager John J. McGraw and would often score box seats.
But when the games ended and he and the rest of the crowds filed out of those parks, they were confronted once again with the despair around them.
''Like many other recreational activities, people did go to the ballpark to get away from the economic horrors of empty wallets and ice boxes,'' said Robinson, 88, a writer and lifelong resident of Manhattan. ''I was very aware of the guys selling apples on street corners for a nickel. Along the Hudson River, you had some of these guys living in ramshackle huts in rags. So going to the ballpark was a big thing.'' 
Despite the immense popularity of baseball in the 1920s, the 16 teams that made up the major leagues then were not insulated from hard times. Attendance plummeted 40 percent from 1930 to 1933 and did not return to pre-Depression levels until after World War II, when millions of soldiers returned.
Players' salaries fell by 25 percent on average, yet nearly every team, including the wealthy Yankees, lost money for at least a year or two in the decade.
''Economically, it was a very tough decade for baseball,'' said Andrew Zimbalist, a sports economist at Smith College.
As Americans grapple with what could be the worst economic downturn since the 1930s, many are asking whether major league baseball, and professional sports more broadly, will prove impervious to the grim realities of the economic cycle, or will suffer as teams did then.
Optimists point to the shallow dips in attendance in past recessions, guaranteed television contracts, lucrative sponsorship deals and new luxury boxes in modern stadiums. These revenue streams were largely unavailable to owners in the 1930s and have helped modern teams diversify and bolster their incomes.
Optimists also point to the large free-agent contracts signed by C. C. Sabathia, A. J. Burnett, Mark Teixeira and Francisco Rodriguez this winter -- evidence, they say, that shows that at least the strong teams have the wherewithal to withstand a severe slowdown.
But Zimbalist and others who have studied the history of the game said the last few recessions were mild enough that even the weakest teams got by. This slump, he said, is more analogous to the economic chaos of the 1930s, and historians should look to that era for hints on how teams will hold up in the coming years.
Clearly, times were tough, though the owners were slow to recognize what was to come. The stock market crashed in October 1929, but baseball enjoyed record attendance the next year, with more than 10 million fans passing through the turnstiles.
At their winter meetings after the 1930 season, the owners made no significant changes or concessions. The National League owners, however, did take the time to note that 5,145 dozen baseballs were used that year, a 10 percent increase, which disturbed their thrifty impulses.
As the 1931 season dawned, Frank J. Navin, the acting American League president and the owner of the Detroit Tigers, saw no sign of the impending collapse.
''Former business depressions have not hurt baseball,'' he told The Associated Press, ''and I do not think the present depression will materially affect attendance this year.''
But the hard times did arrive, and quickly. Attendance fell 16 percent in 1931, driven not just by rising unemployment but also a decision by the owners to dampen the scoring boom by changing the rules for what constituted a home run and tinkering with the composition of Spalding's baseballs.
Attendance fell in 1932, when a 10 percent federal amusement tax was added to ticket prices, and again in 1933, when bank holidays left many Americans short of cash. President Herbert Hoover, an avid baseball fan, was lustily booed at games he attended. The hapless St. Louis Browns drew fewer than 100,000 fans for several seasons in the decade. On opening day in 1933, half the 40,000 fans at Yankee Stadium sat in the bleachers, where tickets were 50 cents, according to Charles C. Alexander, author of ''Breaking the Slump: Baseball in the Depression Era,'' which was published in 2002.
Many teams, strong and weak ones alike, kept costs down by reducing the number of coaches, or by eliminating them and employing player-managers. Owners opted for 23-man rosters, down from 25. Even the best players -- Babe Ruth among them -- took pay cuts. Connie Mack sold many of the stars from the pennant-winning Philadelphia Athletics teams of 1929, 1930 and 1931.
Only the two pennant-winning teams -- the Chicago Cubs and the Yankees -- made money in 1932. In 1933, only the New York Giants and the Philadelphia Phillies finished the season in the black.
The Brooklyn Dodgers, which had gone deep into debt to expand Ebbets Field, received turn-off notices from the power company at its offices on Montague Street, according to Bob McGee, who wrote ''The Greatest Ballpark Ever: Ebbets Field and the Story of the Brooklyn Dodgers,'' which was published in 2005.
Some weaker teams survived partly because they received a share of the gate when they played against popular teams like the Yankees, the Cubs and the Giants.
Despite the need for new sources of revenue, many of baseball's hidebound owners continued to resist allowing live radio broadcasts of their games, fearing fewer fans would attend in person. This attitude persisted even though radio had helped generate interest in, as well as money for, minor league teams.
''They finally came to the conclusion that, depression notwithstanding, they would do nothing drastic in the way of retrenchments that would seriously affect baseball's time-honored customers or, as one owner expressed it, 'cheapen' the game,'' John Drebinger of The New York Times wrote of the 1932 winter meetings.
Some owners, it seemed, lived in another world. Navin, the owner of the Tigers, bought a racehorse in 1931 even though his players were reportedly having their meal money reduced. Others focused on yachting.
Whatever the predilections of the owners, baseball's fans, even those not attending games in person, took solace in the game. Pepper Martin, an outfielder on the 1931 St. Louis Cardinals championship team, became a folk hero for his scrappy play in the World Series.
Ruth added to his voluminous legend when he hit a home run at Wrigley Field in the 1932 World Series that, legend has it, he predicted in advance.
Dizzy Dean and his younger brother, Paul, were among the most chronicled players in 1934, as much for their down-home flamboyance as for their feats on the field.
''The times were tough for just about everybody, including the young men who tried to make their way as professional baseball players in a decade of persistently discouraging prospects in most kinds of employment,'' Alexander wrote in ''Breaking the Slump.''
''Yet the period featured a galaxy of memorable personalities and some of the most memorable baseball ever played.''
The Depression also forced teams to innovate. The Cardinals, for instance, expanded their network of minor league teams. Several teams, including the Cubs, did not charge women for admission, a promotion that East Coast teams soon copied.
A few teams generated income by allowing live radio broadcasts. Taking a cue from the minor leagues, the Cincinnati Reds in 1935 became the first team to host a night game, which proved very popular with fans.
The end of the blue laws in Pennsylvania also helped franchises in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, which, until 1934, had not been able to schedule home games on Sundays.
Remarkably, while thousands of banks collapsed during the Depression and millions of people lost their jobs, no major league baseball franchises folded or moved during the period (though at least two changed hands, including the Boston Red Sox).
''The teams muddled through,'' said Rodney Fort, a professor of sports management at the University of Michigan. ''We know from this truly historic episode that things didn't go to hell in a handbag.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Babe Ruth in 1933 with Jacob Ruppert, the owner of the Yankees. Ruth was among the players who took a pay cut during the Depression.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 President Herbert Hoover, throwing out the first pitch for a game between the Senators and the Athletics in 1931, was an avid fan of baseball. He was often booed when he attended games.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Depression's Toll on Baseball's Attendance: The combined attendance of the American and National Leagues from 1920 through 1950. Beginning in 1931, attendance declined significantly for three straight seasons before there was a slow, but steady, increase.(Sources: rodneyfort.com, baseball-reference.com) Chart details bar graph for depression era.(pg. B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); HISTORY (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); SPONSORSHIP (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



202 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. and Workers Shun Confrontation

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN and SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Is another transit strike in store? Not likely. 
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's labor agreement with its largest union, Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union of America, is set to expire on Jan. 15. In December 2005, the union went on strike for 60 hours -- its first strike since 1980 -- and both sides now seem determined to avoid a devastating repeat. 
 The authority and the union announced on Tuesday that they had not been able to complete a new contract at the negotiating table and had agreed instead to go to binding arbitration -- a clear signal that they wished to avoid an all-out labor battle. The union represents more than 30,000 subway and bus workers at New York City Transit, the authority's largest division. 
 The decision to go to arbitration could give both sides much-needed cover. If the contract contains givebacks desired by the authority, the local president, Roger Toussaint, could blame the arbitration process. And it could protect the authority from criticism that it allowed wage increases while it is facing its worst financial crisis in two decades. 
 Relations between the authority and the union have improved greatly since a new management team took over the authority in 2007. Largely productive talks on a new contract have been going on for months. 
 The authority has been seeking to cut costs by consolidating bus operations now under separate divisions. It wants an agreement from the union that would let it save money by eliminating some bus depots and give it more flexibility in deploying workers. That has drawn resistance from some union members because of how it would affect job seniority and work assignments. 
 ''Due to complications associated with today's current economic climate, we have reached an impasse and have jointly decided to arbitrate contract terms,'' the authority said in a statement on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); STRIKES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



203 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: This Time, Iraqis Hear And See Candidates

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS and SUADAD AL-SALHY; Reporting was contributed by Anwar J. Ali, Riyadh Mohammed, Atheer Kakan and Campbell Robertson from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Basra, Karbala, Kirkuk, Maysan Province, Falluja, Mosul and Diyala Province.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
It was a cool winter morning in Baghdad on Monday, just a few miles from the Shiite mosque where a suicide bomber killed or wounded 112 people the day before. But Abdul Kareem, 50, a real estate developer and independent Shiite candidate, was on the street hustling for votes anyway, passing out campaign cards and gluing his posters to walls.
 ''If you think I'm a good man, campaign for me,'' Mr. Kareem told an elderly man, handing him a stack of laminated cards.
 The nation's provincial elections on Jan. 31 are the first in which the government has deemed it safe enough for the names, instead of simply the political affiliations, of officeseekers to appear on the ballot. 
 It is also the first time that large numbers of candidates like Mr. Kareem have decided for themselves that Iraq is sufficiently safe to campaign publicly and put their oversize pictures on posters and banners around the city. It sometimes seems that every square inch of blast wall in Baghdad is covered with them.
 The elections are part of a series of votes scheduled in Iraq this year, including parliamentary elections and a referendum on the withdrawal of American forces. Taken together, they are expected to shape the political future of Iraq as it emerges from an extended period of sectarian violence and continues to wrestle with such basic questions as whether it will be a single nation or several. 
 The provincial election also takes place against the backdrop of a wave of departing foreign troops, most significantly from Britain and the United States. The United States has agreed to pull its combat troops, now numbering about 145,000, from cities by June 30, and to withdraw entirely from Iraq by the end of 2011.
 Provincial councils are roughly the equivalent of state legislatures in the United States, and the balloting for them is expected to correct underrepresentation in local governments among Sunni Arabs, particularly in areas where there has been heavy insurgent and sectarian violence, including Baghdad, Anbar, Diyala and Nineveh Provinces. Sunni Arabs largely boycotted the 2005 provincial elections.
 There is widespread fear, however, that the vote may set off a new round of clashes. At least one candidate has been assassinated by political rivals and a number of opposition candidates have been arrested, several of whom are being investigated for terrorism-related charges in Diyala. 
 The election will be delayed in the restive Kirkuk Province, where some 40 percent of Iraq's oil reserves lie, and in the three provinces of Kurdistan, a semiautonomous region. 
 Further complicating the vote are the estimated 5.1 million Iraqis who remain displaced, according to the International Organization for Migration. Only about half of the refugees -- those still living within Iraq's borders -- are eligible to vote.
 The provincial elections could prove to be a referendum on the religious parties that have dominated Iraqi politics in recent years, including Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's Islamic Dawa Party.
 ''There is widespread dissatisfaction with the performance of the governing religious parties, but Maliki is clearly trying to mitigate this by playing the nationalist and centrist card,'' said Reidar Visser, a research fellow at the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs in Oslo, who runs www.historiae.org, a Web site focused on Iraqi affairs.
 While Mr. Maliki is not running, his Dawa Party has organized a group of political organizations into a coalition called State of Law, which is playing down Dawa's Shiite roots and emphasizing improved security, nationalism and economic development.
 During interviews across Iraq during the past two weeks, voters said they associated the nation's sectarian violence with the rise of religious parties. Provincial governments had done little, they said, to provide basic services like electricity. Now, four years after a raised purple index finger became a symbol of Iraqi democracy, the hope that a single vote could restore peace and order has been replaced by a fatalism common in far older democracies.
 ''I won't participate in the election, because those whom we elected last time failed us,'' said Iman Karkaz, a 50-year-old academic from the war-torn city of Falluja. ''Most of the parties used religion and Islam as a cover and then created sectarianism and riot in our society.''
 The government has sought to limit the influence of religion for the provincial elections by prohibiting appeals for candidates in mosques and other places of worship and by barring political signs with pictures of religious figures -- strategies that religious parties employed in previous elections with great success.
 Two of the nation's most influential Shiite clerics, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the reclusive 78-year-old cleric revered by many of Iraq's 15 million Shiites, and Moktada al-Sadr, 35, whose armed supporters have clashed with American and Iraqi forces in the past, have said they plan to stay largely neutral during the elections.
 Instead of attaching his name to a slate of candidates as in previous elections, Mr. Sadr, whose standing is far weaker than it was during the 2005 elections, said he might endorse only specific candidates this time.
 ''We didn't want to lose the trust of the people by politicizing the provincial councils,'' said Salah al-Obeidi, a spokesman for Mr. Sadr. 
 It may be too late. Karrar Ali, a 28-year old laborer from Maysan Province in heavily Shiite southern Iraq, which continues to be Mr. Sadr's base of support, said he planned to vote only for candidates running on secular platforms.
 ''I won't elect any of the religious lists,'' he said. ''The lists that think art is forbidden, that sports are forbidden and that freedom of expression is forbidden won't be elected by me because it ties me up with the chains I've always been with, and I want to be free now from those chains.''
 There are other signs that voters have grown tired of Iraq's politics.
 In a government poll of 3,000 eligible Iraqi voters in November, nearly one-third said they supported the idea of a single-party state, and a 46 percent plurality said the existing provincial councils had done a poor job. Still, 75 percent of respondents said they were optimistic about Iraq's future, and 69 percent said they intended to vote. 
 But while religious parties may not fare as well as they have in past elections, analysts said their access to money, their grip on local and national seats and their ability to form political coalitions will virtually guarantee them a large following in the provincial contests.
 And some voters say Iraq needs Islam to help bind it together.
 ''We're an Islamic country that will never accept a person who distributes immoral alcohol and urges our sons to be effeminate,'' said Kareem al-Muhammadawi, a 57-year-old taxi driver from Maysan Province.
 The government, which has budgeted $225 million for the election, has made a major push to match the 63 percent turnout of the 2005 local elections -- which were held on the same day as balloting for the National Assembly.
 And in an effort to avoid fraud, 46,000 nonpartisan election observers and thousands of other monitors will be allowed inside polling stations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Campaign posters with the names and photos of the candidates have begun to appear in Iraq, like those on a wall on the outskirts of Sadr City in Baghdad. Abdul Kareem, far left, a Baghdad real estate developer, campaigns as an independent Shiite candidate for the provincial council. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHAN SPANNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BOYCOTTS (69%); REFUGEES (60%); ARRESTS (60%); ASSASSINATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



204 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
AUDIO: Day 11 In Gaza
 Ethan Bronner on the casualties near the United Nations school in Jabaliya after an Israeli strike, the possible fallout from the attacks and the lack of media access to the battle zone in Gaza. 
 nytimes.com/world
 SLIDESHOW: BEYOND HIS RANGE
 A slide show of Philip Pearlstein's paintings from the exhibit at the Montclair Art Museum.
 nytimes.com/design
 Frugal Traveler By Bus to Okemo, And Uncrowded Slopes
 With the recession cutting into vacation budgets, few can afford the Rockies and the Alps. But in New York City, day trips to Vermont resorts are more popular than ever.
 nytimes.com/frugaltraveler
 The Quad Championship Run
 In the days leading up to the Bowl Championship Series title game between Florida and Oklahoma, get all the angles and the latest news from The Quad blog.
 nytimes.com/thequad
 VIDEO: PARMESAN CHICKEN AND JAMIE OLIVER
 Mark Bittman, the Minimalist, prepares chicken breasts with a trans-Atlantic visitor, Jamie Oliver.
 nytimes.com/dining
 AUDIO: ON ROUGE TOMATE
 A discussion about a Midtown restaurant that watches over your well-being with a gastrointestinal feng shui.
 nytimes.com/dining
 Executive Suite The Credit Crisis Comes to Sri Lanka
 The economic crisis has found its way into almost every conversation Joe Nocera has had in this lush tropical island of 20 million people. 
 nytimes.com/executivesuite
 Opinion
 The Animated Life 'You Won't Remember This Either'
 Jeff Scher turns his filmmaker's eye on his toddler in an animated short.
 nytimes.com/scher

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS/SUHAIB SALEM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PAINTING (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); POULTRY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); FILM (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); BUDGETS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); ANIMATION (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); ALPS (76%) UNITED STATES (79%); SRI LANKA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



205 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Investor Optimism Outpaces Worries

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Stock markets pushed higher on Tuesday as investors shrugged off economic reports showing more troubles for America's factories and service sector. Worries from the Federal Reserve that the recession could persist despite their best efforts did not hold back gains, either. 
Technology, transportation and basic-materials sectors led the major indexes higher as Wall Street recouped its losses from Monday.
By the end of the day, the Dow gained 62.21 points, or 0.69 percent, to close at 9,015.10. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished 7.25 points, or 0.78 percent, higher to 934.70, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq was up 1.5 percent, to 1,652.38.
The computer maker Hewlett-Packard gained 8 percent to close at $39.31 a share. Dell, Sun Microsystems and Intel all posted gains.
Shares of Apple fell back 1.65 percent to close at $93.02 a share, as the computer maker announced a new price structure for downloading iTunes. Apple shares had risen on Monday after its chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, addressed swirling concerns about his health.
Analysts said that the gains on Tuesday were evidence that a fragile optimism had begun to replace the panic that dominated markets through late 2008.
''Fear has receded a little bit, and I think that sets up the potential for this little rally we've had,'' said Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer of the Bessemer Trust.
Stocks have rallied 25 percent from their November lows, but analysts said the coming corporate earnings reports would be a crucial test of investor sentiment.
''It's at these points where, just as the newfound optimism arrives, the market becomes less able to deal with negative headlines,'' said Todd Salamone of Schaeffer's Investment Research.
Crude oil prices traded above $50 a barrel Tuesday before settling at $48.58, down 23 cents.
A dispute over natural gas between Russia and Ukraine and a production cut by the OPEC cartel of 2.2 million barrels a day have highlighted concerns about tightening energy supplies.
New economic reports did little to raise hopes that the recession had bottomed out. But a report on America's service sector from the Institute for Supply Management showed that while services continued to contract last month, they shrank at a slower pace than in the month earlier.
New orders and the backlog of orders contracted across a range of sectors, as did employment, imports, export orders and overall business activity. But those indicators of economic activity were up slightly from November.
''It suggests that the negative momentum may be easing as we go into 2009,'' said Ryan W. Sweet, senior economist at Moody's Economy.com.
Orders to factories declined 4.6 percent in November, nearly double the 2.5 percent drop economists had expected.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 10/32, to 111 11/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 2.45 percent, from 2.48 percent.
Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and 10-year inflation-protected securities:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph.
 The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); CARTELS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); EXPORT TRADE (62%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); INTEL CORP (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



206 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Minutes Reveal Shock At Downturn

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Policy makers at the Federal Reserve appeared almost stunned by an economy that was sinking faster than they had expected on almost every front in December, so much so that they even toyed with the idea of not announcing an official target for overnight interest rates, according to minutes of the meeting released on Tuesday.
 At the meeting on Dec. 15 and 16, Fed policy makers jumped through the looking glass and slashed the benchmark federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks virtually to zero. Vowing to use ''all available tools'' for stimulating the economy, the Fed then outlined a radical new approach of pumping money into the economy through its own lending programs and through heavy purchases of mortgage-backed securities and possibly longer-term Treasury bonds. 
 Despite having already created a raft of new lending programs to financial institutions and even corporate borrowers, Fed policy makers as well as the Fed's staff forecasters began the meeting with sharply reduced forecasts. They all expected a severe economic contraction that was likely to last through at least the first half of 2009.
 ''All meeting participants agreed that the economic downturn had intensified over all,'' according to the minutes. The housing market was still weakening, credit conditions were tighter than ever, consumer spending had fallen for five months in a row. Even exports, which had been the one bright spot, were being hurt by a global economic slowdown.
 ''Many participants noted that the decline in household wealth resulting from large drops in equity and house prices, together with tighter credit conditions, rapidly increasing unemployment and deteriorating consumer sentiment, was contributing to a sharp contraction in consumer spending,'' according to the meeting minutes.
 Fed officials had scheduled a second day for the meeting to hash out their approach to policy once they reduced the federal funds rate to zero. 
 All of the policy makers agreed that they had to use ''other tools'' to stimulate the economy. But there was considerable debate about which tools would be most effective, and about how the Fed should communicate to the public about what it was doing.
 In one of the most startling discussions, some policy makers argued that the central bank should simply drop its official target for the federal funds rate altogether. They noted that bank lending had become so paralyzed that the actual Fed funds rate was already well below the official target of 1 percent for the last month. Some advocates of not setting a Fed funds rate argued that it might actually help focus investor attention on the Fed's new arsenal of policy measures.
 Other policy makers feared that such a change would lead to confusion, and might prompt investors to think the Fed had lost control over short-term interest rates. In the end, the central bank lowered the target rate from 1 percent to a range from zero to one-quarter of a percent.
 The minutes also conveyed a striking shift in worries about inflation. The minutes showed no hint that any of the Fed policy makers were worried that their actions might rekindle inflation. The only concerns about price levels were in connection with deflation, or an across-the-board decline in consumer prices. 
 Not only did policy makers agree that inflation would continue to fall, according to the minutes, but ''some members saw significant risks that inflation could decline and persist for a time at uncomfortably low levels.'' Officials also debated how they should communicate their actions once they stopped moving the Fed funds rate. Some wanted the Fed to announce quantitative targets for the amount of additional bank reserves they wanted to create, saying it might help ward off deflationary pressures. 
 The notes hinted at a possible power struggle between presidents of the Federal Reserve district banks, who serve on the Federal Open Market Committee that sets monetary policy, and the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, which consists of the Fed chairman and up to six Fed governors. The open market committee sets interest rates, but the Fed governors in Washington have the power on their own to enact new lending programs, bail out financial institutions or buy up particular kinds of securities. 
 ''A few'' of those who supported quantitative targets, according to the minutes, argued that it would help ''coordinate'' actions between Fed governors in Washington and the Federal Open Market Committee, which included regional Fed presidents. In the end, policy makers decided against setting any quantitative targets and to continue ''close consultation between the committee and the board.''
 Policy makers acknowledged that a Fed funds rate of zero could cause headaches in certain parts of the financials markets, like money-market mutual funds, which might have difficulty earning fees to cover their operating costs. But ''most participants'' agreed that the benefits of a lower rate outweighed the headaches.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BONDS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); HOME PRICES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



207 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; THE MINIMALIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1953 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Start for a New Year? Let's Begin in the Kitchen

BYLINE: By MARK BITTMAN

 BODY:
PERHAPS, like me, you have this romantic notion of shopping daily -- maybe even a mental vision of yourself making the rounds, wicker basket in hand, of your little Shropshire or Provencal or Tuscan village. The reality, of course, is that few of us provision our kitchens or cook exclusively with ultra-fresh ingredients, especially in winter, when there simply are no ultra-fresh ingredients. 
 But if your goal is to cook and cook quickly, to get a satisfying and enjoyable variety of real food on the table as often as possible, a well-stocked pantry and fridge can sustain you. Replenished weekly or even less frequently, with an occasional stop for fresh vegetables, meat, fish and dairy, they are the core supply houses for the home cook. 
 While you're stocking up, you might clear out a bit of the detritus that's cluttering your shelves. Some of these things take up more space than they're worth, while others are so much better in their real forms that the difference is laughable. Sadly, some remain in common usage even among good cooks. My point here is not to criminalize their use, but to point out how easily and successfully we can substitute for them, in every case with better results. 
 Here, then, is my little list of items you might spurn, along with some essential pantry and long-keeping refrigerator items you might consider. Note that I'm not including the ultra-obvious, things that are more or less ubiquitous in the contemporary American pantry, like potatoes, eggs and honey. 
 OUT Packaged bread crumbs or croutons. 
 IN Take crumbs, cubes or slices of bread, and either toast evenly in a low oven until dry and lightly browned, tossing occasionally; or cook in olive oil until brown and crisp, stirring frequently. The first keep a long time, and are multipurpose; the second are best used quickly, and are incomparably delicious. 
 OUT Bouillon cubes or powder, or canned stock. 
 IN Simmer a carrot, a celery stalk and half an onion in a couple of cups of water for 10 minutes and you're better off; if you have any chicken scraps, even a half-hour of cooking with those same vegetables will give you something 10 times better than any canned stock. 
 OUT Aerosol oil. At about $12 a pint, twice as expensive as halfway decent extra virgin olive oil, which spray oil most decidedly is not; and it contains additives. 
 IN Get some good olive oil and a hand-pumped sprayer or even simpler, a brush. Simplest: your fingers. 
 OUT Bottled salad dressing and marinades. The biggest rip-offs imaginable. 
 IN Take good oil and vinegar or lemon juice, and combine them with salt, pepper, maybe a little Dijon, in a proportion of about three parts oil to one of vinegar. Customize from there, because you may like more vinegar or less, and you undoubtedly will want a little shallot, or balsamic vinegar, or honey, or garlic, or tarragon, or soy sauce. ... 
 OUT Bottled lemon juice.
 IN Lemons. Try buying six at a time, then experiment; I never put lemon on something and regret it. (Scramble a couple of eggs in chicken stock, then finish with a lot of lemon, black pepper and dill; call this egg-lemon soup, or avgolemono.) Don't forget the zest: you can grate it and add it to many pan sauces, or hummus and other purees. And don't worry about reamers, squeezers or any of that junk; squeeze from one hand into the other and let your fingers filter out the pips. 
 OUT Spices older than a year: smell before using; if you get a whiff of dust or must before you smell the spice, toss it. I find it easier to clean house once a year and buy new ones. 
 IN Fresh spices. Almost all spices are worth having. But some that you might think about using more frequently include cardamom (try a tiny bit in your next coffee cake, apple cake, spice cake or rice pilaf); ground cumin (a better starting place in chili -- in fact, in many bean dishes -- than chili powder); fennel seeds (these will give a Provencal flavor to any tomato sauce or soup; grind them first, or not); an assortment of dried chilies (I store them all together, because dried chipotles make the rest of them slightly smoky); fresh -- or at least dried -- ginger, which is lovely grated over most vegetables; pimenton, the smoked Spanish red pepper that is insanely popular in restaurants but still barely making inroads among home cooks; and good curry powder. 
 OUT Dried parsley and basil. They're worthless.
 IN Fresh parsley, which keeps at least a week in the refrigerator. (Try your favorite summer pesto recipe with parsley in place of basil, or simply puree some parsley with a little oil, water, salt and a whisper of garlic. Or add a chopped handful to any salad or almost anything else.) And dried tarragon, rosemary and dill, all of which I use all winter; mix a teaspoon or so of tarragon or rosemary -- not more, they're strong -- with olive oil or melted butter and brush on roasted or broiled chicken while it cooks, or add a pinch to vinaigrette. Dill is also good with chicken; on plain broiled fish, with lemon; or in many simple soups. 
 OUT Canned beans (except in emergencies).
 IN Dried beans. More economical, better tasting, space saving and available in far more varieties. Cook a pound once a week and you'll always have them around (you can freeze small amounts in their cooking liquid, or water, indefinitely). If you're not sold, try this: soak and cook a pound of white beans. Take some and finish with fresh chopped sage, garlic and good olive oil. Puree another cup or so with a boiled potato and lots of garlic. Mix some with a bit of cooking liquid, and add a can of tomatoes; some chopped celery, carrots and onions; cooked pasta; and cheese and call it pasta fagiole or minestrone. If there are any left, mix them with a can of olive-oil-packed tuna or sardines. And that's just white beans. 
 OUT Imitation vanilla.
 IN Vanilla beans. They're expensive, but they keep. (If you look online you can find bargains in bulk, which is why I have 25 in my refrigerator.) If you slice a pod in half and simmer it with some leftover rice and any kind of milk (dairy, coconut, almond...), you'll never go back to extract. 
 OUT Grated imitation ''Parmesan'' (beware the green cylinder, or any other pre-grated cheese for that matter).
 IN Real Parmigiano-Reggiano. Wrapped well, it keeps for a year (scrape mold off if necessary). Grated over anything, there is no more magical ingredient. Think about pasta with butter and Parmesan (does your mouth water?). But also think about any egg dish, with Parmesan; anything sauteed with a coating of bread crumbs and Parmesan; or asparagus, broccoli, spinach or any other cooked vegetable, topped with Parmesan (and maybe some bread crumbs) and run under the broiler; how great. Save the rinds to throw in pots of sauce, soup, tomato-y stew or risotto. 
 OUT Canned peas (and most other canned vegetables, come to think of it).
 IN Frozen peas. Especially if you have little kids and make pasta or rice with peas (and Parmesan!); not bad. Or puree with a little lemon juice and salt for a nice spread or dip. In fact, many frozen vegetables are better than you might think. 
 OUT Tomato paste in a can.
 IN Tomato paste in a tube. You rarely need more than two tablespoons so you feel guilty opening a can; this solves that problem. Stir some into vegetables sauteed in olive oil, for example, then add water for fast soup. Or add a bit to almost any vegetable as it cooks in olive oil and garlic -- especially cabbage, dark greens, carrots or cauliflower. 
 OUT Premade pie crusts. O.K., these are a real convenience, but almost all use inferior fats. I'd rather make a ''pie'' or quiche with no crust than use these. 
 IN Crumble graham crackers with melted butter and press into a pan. But really -- if you put a pinch of salt, a cup of flour, a stick of very cold, cut-up butter in a food processor, then blend with a touch of water until it almost comes together -- you have a dough you can refrigerate or freeze and roll out whenever you want, in five minutes. 
 OUT Cheap balsamic or flavored vinegars.
 IN Sherry vinegar. More acidic and more genuine than all but the most expensive balsamic. Try a salad of salted cabbage (shred, then toss with a couple of tablespoons of salt in a colander for an hour or two, then rinse and drain), tossed with plenty of black pepper, a little olive oil and enough sherry vinegar to make the whole thing sharp. 
 OUT Minute Rice or boil-in-a-bag grains. 
 IN Genuine grains. Critical; as many different types as you have space for. Short grain rice -- for risotto, paella, just good cooked rice -- of course. Barley, pearled or not; a super rice alternative, with any kind of gravy, reduction sauce, pan drippings, what have you. Ground corn for polenta, grits, cornbread or thickener (whisk some -- not much -- into a soup and see what happens). Quinoa -- people can't believe how flavorful this is until they try it. Bulgur, which is ready in maybe 10 minutes (it requires only steeping), and everyone likes. If you're in doubt about how to cook any of these, combine them with abundant salted water and cook as you would pasta, then drain when tender; you can't go far wrong. 
 OUT ''Pancake'' syrup, which is more akin to Coke than to the real thing. 
 IN Real maple syrup, an indigenous gift from nature and the north country. 
 YOU SHOULD ALSO STOCK:
 REAL BACON OR PROSCIUTTO Or other traditionally smoked or cured meat of some kind. If you have a quarter pound of prosciutto in the house at all times you can make almost anything -- simple cooked grains, beans, vegetables, tomato sauces, soups -- taste better. And, tightly wrapped, it'll keep for weeks in the fridge or months in the freezer. 
 FISH SAUCE You have soy sauce, presumably; this is different, stronger, cruder (or should I say ''less refined''?) in a way -- and absolutely delicious. Use sparingly, but use; start by sprinkling a little over plain steamed vegetables, along with a lot of black pepper.
 CANNED COCONUT MILK Try this: cook some onions in oil with curry powder; stir in coconut milk; poach chicken, fish, tofu, or even meat in that. Serve over rice. 
 MISO PASTE Never goes bad, as far as I can tell, and its flavor is incomparable. Whisk into boiling water for real soup in three minutes; thin a bit (with sake if you have it), and smear on meat or fish that's almost done broiling; add a spoonful to vinaigrette. Etc. 
 CAPERS, GOOD OLIVES (BUY IN BULK, NOT CANS) AND GOOD ANCHOVIES (IN OLIVE OIL, PLEASE) The combination of the three makes a powerful paste, or pasta sauce, or dip. 
 WALNUTS And/or other nuts, but walnuts are most basic and useful. Try a puree with garlic, oil and a little water, as a pasta sauce, or just add to salads or cooked grains. 
 PIGNOLI With raisins, they make any dish Sicilian.
 DRIED FRUIT For snacking, in braises (braised pork with prunes is a classic winter dish), or just soaked in water (or booze) or poached for dessert. Don't forget dried tomatoes, too.
 DRIED MUSHROOMS Don't even bother to reconstitute if you're cooking with liquid; just toss them in. 
 FROZEN SHRIMP Incredibly convenient.
 WINTER SQUASH AND SWEET POTATOES These store almost as well as potatoes and are more nutritious and equally interesting. A sweet potato roasted until the exterior is nearly blackened and the interior is mush is a wonderful snack. The best winter squashes (delicata, for example) have edible skins and are amazing just chunked and roasted with a little oil (and maybe some ginger or garlic). For butternut- or acorn-type squashes, poke holes through to the center with a skewer in a few places and roast in a 400 degree oven until soft. Let cool, then peel and seed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE REAL THING: Sherry vinegar, on Savoy cabbage, left, and fresh beans, with garlic and olive oil, right, should be in every home.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANCESCO TONELLI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



208 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Service Sector Eased Somewhat in December

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
America's service sector continued to contract last month as the recession deepened, although at a slower pace than a month earlier, according to a report released Tuesday by the Institute for Supply Management, a trade association.
 The non-manufacturing index rose to 40.6 percent in December, 3.3 percentage points higher than its November levels of 37.3 percent, according to the institute. Levels below 50 indicate economic contraction while levels above 50 are a sign of growth.
 ''This report was a positive way to end a terrible quarter,'' said Ryan Smith, senior economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''It suggests that the negative momentum maybe easing as we go into 2009.'' 
 But Mr. Smith added that economic contraction at a slower rate is still economic contraction, and that the report points to additional job losses and payroll cuts. 
 The United States economy shed two million jobs in 2008 according to some measures, and economists say the current unemployment rate of 6.7 percent could scrape 7 percent when new jobless numbers are released on Friday. Congressional leaders and President-elect Barack Obama are preparing a stimulus package of tax cuts and spending projects to address one of the most severe economic downturns since the Depression.
 ''The economy is still in a severe recession, layoffs are accelerating and it seems that the troubles are shifting from consumers to businesses,'' Mr. Smith said.
 While the December numbers marked a slight improvement, the report signaled that the economy is still contracting and that more trouble lies ahead for a number of business sectors, including retail, real estate, trade and finance companies. 
 New orders and the backlog of orders contracted across a range of sectors, as did employment, imports, export orders and overall business activity. However, all of those indicators of economic activity were up slightly from November. 
 In a sign of more hard times for America's housing market, pending home sales fell to their lowest levels in seven years, the National Association of Realtors reported on Tuesday. Home contracts signed in November fell 4 percent from October and were 5.3 percent below last November, according to the association's Pending Home Sales Index. ''It's going to be very weak,'' said Lawrence Yun, the industry group's chief economist, of the housing market in the next few months. ''With very few contract signings naturally means fewer closings. The housing market, without a doubt is down, painfully down.''
 Signed contracts, an indicator of future sales, fell the farthest in the Northeast, dropping 14.6 percent in November from the same time last year. Pending home sales in the South and Midwest also fell, but pending sales in the West were 20 percent higher than last November, a sign that a blitz of foreclosure buying has made ripples in the broader market.
 ''People are taking advantage of the rock-bottom prices,'' Mr. Yun said.
 Homes sales have slumped across the country as the housing boom imploded, spreading turmoil through the financial world and the broader economy. Existing home sales in November were down more than 10 percent from a year ago, and home prices have fallen faster and faster as the recession deepened.
 Also on Tuesday, the Commerce Department reported that factory orders for manufactured goods slipped 4.6 percent in November as energy prices fell and businesses pared production to address declining consumer demand and halted economic growth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); NEW ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); RETAIL SALES (68%); TAX LAW (66%); FORECLOSURE (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



209 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: How Do We Fix the Financial Mess?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The End of the Financial World as We Know It'' and ''How to Repair a Broken Financial World,'' by Michael Lewis and David Einhorn (Op-Ed, Jan. 4):
 We may, as a country, feel that we are partly to blame for this national financial crisis, but much of this is misplaced guilt. 
 Sure, many of us borrowed money against our houses, but not just to buy big TVs. Many families were working two or more jobs with stagnant salaries that couldn't keep up with inflation. 
 As a nation, we have virtually no savings, not only because we consumed too much, but also because we were just getting by. This, despite the fact that we work longer hours than our parents did. 
 We needed money wherever we could get it just to keep up with the rising cost of living. The banks, led by the government, offered to step in with loans, and we took them. What were we supposed to do?
 Mr. Lewis and Mr. Einhorn make an excellent, common-sense argument for some simple but radical reforms in Washington. What I would add is the outrage.
 Michael Walker Bellport, N.Y., Jan. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 It is unfortunate that so many fiduciaries (including managers of foundations, endowments and funds) could invest so much money with Bernard L. Madoff apparently without performing fundamental, common-sense due diligence. The red flags were numerous, including a serious lack of transparency, a tiny storefront auditor and uncannily smooth and consistent returns. 
 The whole affair confirms what Stephen J. Brown, Bing Liang and I conclude in a paper published recently in The Journal of Investment Management: basic due diligence on the operations of a money manager is a fundamental part of a fiduciary's duties and can have a direct impact on investment return.
 Thomas L. Fraser New York, Jan. 6, 2009
 The writer is a lawyer.
 To the Editor:
 I find the proposal by Michael Lewis and David Einhorn on foreclosures to be irresponsible. After suggesting that making payments on mortgages greater than the current values of homes ''doesn't make sense,'' they propose a universal plan for requiring banks to accept the current value in the form of a new taxpayer-provided loan to the homeowner.
 They would also void second mortgages, subordinate home equity loans and allow this to apply to all, wealthy speculators included, by not requiring bankruptcy of the recipient of this taxpayer largess.
 ''Moral hazard'' is not an empty phrase. Its avoidance preserves the values of fairness that a government and economic system rest upon. What we really need is a serious discussion of housing policy, now and in the future.
 Al Rodbell Encinitas, Calif., Jan. 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The fact that the current appraised value of a home is less than its mortgage isn't reason to default. A homeowner will default if he took out a teaser rate mortgage that reset or speculated by buying various ''investment'' properties. Shouldn't he suffer the consequences of his poor decisions?
 If someone was misled into taking a teaser loan but did so in good faith, intending to make payments, and was then unable to do so because of an unexpected jump in monthly payments, maybe that person should be eligible for a loan modification. But are there really 20 million such families out there?
 House prices will stop declining when you can buy a house, rent it and carry it for free. When that price is reached, capitalists will rush in and start buying properties again, creating a bottom. Why shouldn't the market be allowed to clear itself?
 Marcelo P. Lima Miami, Jan. 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Michael Lewis and David Einhorn write that the Securities and Exchange Commission has proposed ''measures that fail to address the central problem: that the raters are paid by the issuers.'' They say, ''There should be a rule against issuers paying for ratings.'' 
 It would be a great mistake for the S.E.C., in its enthusiasm for taking corrective action, to end the official status of certain rating agencies, for such an action would result in the elimination of any standards for rating agencies, thereby encouraging the proliferation of unregulated rating agencies and contributing to the problem of credit ratings quality.
 Egan-Jones is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (the official status that the authors would like to end) that rates a wide range of corporate and other issuers of debt obligations. Our revenues are entirely derived from institutional investors, rather than issuers, and thus avoid irreconcilable conflicts of interest.
 Sean J. Egan President Egan-Jones Ratings Company Haverford, Pa., Jan. 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I disagree that employees of the Securities and Exchange Commission should be barred from accepting jobs at Wall Street firms. Such a prohibition would deeply harm the S.E.C.'s ability to attract top legal talent. Any law student who can secure an S.E.C. position undoubtedly had offers to make three times as much from a large law firm. 
 I worked as a legal intern for a summer at the Federal Trade Commission, a federal agency where young lawyers left almost weekly to go to large law firms through a similar revolving door. They did so not because they were greedy, but because their law school debt was so high -- often $200,000 -- that staying in the job meant choosing between paying only interest on their debt or living in their parents' house. 
 If the government is serious about retaining talent at its agencies, it should use the carrot, not the stick. For starters, employees should be able to make no student loan payments for the first few years of service (interest free) and receive complete loan forgiveness after a set period (say, five years). This would enable idealistic regulators to stay.
 Timothy J. DeLizza Brooklyn, Jan. 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I hope President-elect Barack Obama pays heed to the thoughtful advice of Michael Lewis and David Einhorn. How can we recover economically if the government keeps trying to treat the symptoms and not the disease itself? 
 Nancy Egan Whitehouse Station, N.J., Jan. 4, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK TODD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FORECLOSURE (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); FAMILY (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); WRITERS (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); SECOND MORTGAGES (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); ENDOWMENTS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



210 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: An Oil Sandstorm

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- The oil that is extracted from Canadian dirt is being portrayed as saving America from energy dependence on the unstable Middle East, or an environmental catastrophe in the making -- depending on the perspective.
As Barack Obama prepares to take office in two weeks, the debate is no longer academic. The president-elect has promised to move forward with an ambitious program aimed at fighting climate change.
Not all oil is alike when it comes to environmental impact, and many environmentalists single out production from the oil sands as the epitome of ''dirty oil.'' In a recent study, the RAND Corporation estimated that oil from the oil sands generates about 10 to 30 percent more greenhouse gases than conventional crude.
Canada, in large part because of the production capacity of its oil sands, is now the largest oil supplier to the United States. But environmental groups in both countries are pushing for a slowdown or even a halt to further oil sands development, which is concentrated in northern Alberta. 
Operators of oil sands projects and Canadian governments are eager to point to its potential to reduce America's dependence on oil from politically unstable regions. Canadian oil sands produce about 1.2 million barrels a day, or about 9 percent of the imported oil consumed in the United States.
Production was headed toward 3.5 million barrels a day by 2015 before the economic slowdown; with the vast reserves available, Canadian oil sands have the potential to produce the equivalent of 1.7 trillion barrels of oil.
The oil sands companies, however, have been scaling back as falling oil prices and the general market turmoil create a significant economic challenge for the projects. The entire process adds up to the world's most capital-intensive method for extracting oil. A tiny example: each of the tires on the cartoonishly oversize dump trucks used in oil sands mining costs about $60,000.
While no one is about to park their giant dump trucks, several companies have recently announced delays in future oil sands investments. In November, a consortium led by Petro-Canada said it would temporarily stop 23.8 billion Canadian dollars ($19.5 billion) worth of expansions to its oil sands operations in Alberta.
''We're not in megaproject mode anymore,'' Steve W. Laut, the president and chief executive of Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., said to analysts after cutting his company's capital spending plans in half.
And as Washington prepares to deal with climate change, environmentalists, who generally prefer to use the deposits' traditional name of tar sands, are already pressing for restrictions on the projects.
''It's one of the most destructive projects on earth,'' said Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, a senior attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council in Washington. ''It would be strongly resisted in the United States to exempt the tar sands from any climate agreement.''
Transforming the tar, more properly known as bitumen, which is mixed with sand, into petroleum is energy intensive and creates significant carbon emissions. Steam created by burning natural gas separates the semisolid bitumen. Then, more natural gas is needed to turn the bitumen into synthetic crude, which can be processed by refineries.
The development of oil sands projects has created North America's greatest boomtown in recent years, Fort McMurray, Alberta. Its outsize economic importance has prompted Canada's Conservative government, led by Prime Minister Stephen Harper, to champion the industry.
After the November election in the United States, Mr. Harper said he would seek to devise a continental climate change pact with the Obama administration. Mr. Harper suggested that any such agreement would include an apparent escape hatch for the oil sands because, he argued, of the energy security benefits they offer the United States.
Since then, however, Mr. Harper avoided an early defeat of his government, which does not control a majority of seats in the House of Commons, by shutting Parliament. Even if the Obama administration is willing to hold talks with Canada, Mr. Harper's grip on power is now uncertain.
Recent environmental assessments, including the RAND study, also do not further the cause of the oil sands industry. While climate change is the current focus, it is not the only environmental issue surrounding the projects.
Spent water used in oil sands projects is placed in lake-size tailings ponds, one of which killed about 500 migrating birds in April. Seepage from the ponds is polluting rivers in northern Canada, some scientists argue. In December, Environmental Defence, an environmental lobby group based in Toronto, estimated that about four billion liters of contaminated water leaked from the ponds each year. (The Alberta government and the oil industry dispute that finding.)
Strip mining of the oil sands, the most common method of extraction, has destroyed large swaths of boreal forest, an important habitat for migratory birds and other wildlife. In December, a study published by the Natural Resources Defense Council and two other groups found that six million to 166 million birds could be lost over the next 30 to 50 years because of that disruption.
Producers say they are making efforts to address environmental concerns. Mr. Laut's company, which recently completed a 110,000-barrel-a-day oil sands project, is developing systems to capture and store much of the carbon dioxide it emits. It has applied for government grants to test a system that will trap some of its carbon dioxide output by bubbling the exhaust gases from an upgrading plant through the spent water from a strip mine's steam.
Large-scale programs to capture and store carbon dioxide are not yet in place. The demonstration project of Canadian Natural Resources, for example, is not scheduled to begin until 2010.
With oil prices around $49 a barrel, profitability is fast eroding at oil sands projects and may already be vanishing at some operations. Producers have widely differing cost structures and varying definitions of profitability. But Andrew J. Leach, a professor of environmental economics at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, estimates that long-established plants can operate with prices as low as $30 a barrel. But he said newer operations need $60 to $70 a barrel for acceptable returns, and no one will proceed with proposed projects until prices return to the $80 to $90 range.
Exactly how Canada could participate in the shaping of an American strategy for climate change is unclear.
Mr. Harper, who is from Alberta, initially dismissed concerns about climate change. After taking power in 2006, he abandoned commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions made by the previous Liberal government when it signed the Kyoto Protocol of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Instead, Mr. Harper's government has promised a 20 percent reduction in Canada's greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. What is more significant, however, is that the proposal wants to use as a baseline 2006 -- a year with more pollution -- rather than the Kyoto standard of 1990.
In addition, the new plan requires companies, including oil sands operators, only to reduce the rate at which they emit greenhouse gases. If they achieve those efficiencies, they will still be allowed to raise their total emissions through increased production.
Even if Canadian producers dislike American climate change policies, they will be hard-pressed to sell their oil elsewhere. Canada's pipeline network takes oil sands production south and offers no routes to ports for export to other countries.
But some people are optimistic about the prospect of a two-nation climate pact.
''It would be a big mistake for Congress to impose restrictions on the oil sands,'' said Paul Cellucci, a former governor of Massachusetts and former United States ambassador to Canada who now works on energy issues for the law firm McCarter & English, in Boston. ''That would not be good for the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oil sands projects like this extraction facility in the boomtown of Fort McMurray, Alberta, produce 1.2 million barrels a day. (B1)
Many environmentalists contend production from the oil sands, like this facility run by Syncrude in Fort McMurray, is the epitome of ''dirty oil.'' The damage from emissions is in dispute. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID BOILY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 The Conservative government of Canada, led by Prime Minister Stephen Harper, has championed the industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS WATTIE/REUTERS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (94%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (66%)

COMPANY: CANADIAN NATURAL RESOURCES LTD (84%); RAND CORP (70%); PETRO-CANADA (63%)

TICKER: CNQ (TSX) (84%); CNQ (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (59%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



211 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Hardball Economics: The Yankees introduced the latest piece to their winter spending spree: Mark Teixeira, their $180 million man.

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

 BODY:
As the Yankees plowed money into pitching early this winter, General Manager Brian Cashman could not shake the Mark Teixeira highlights embedded in his brain.
There was the four-hit night for the Texas Rangers at Yankee Stadium in 2006, when Teixeira crunched Jorge Posada in a collision at the plate. There was the grand slam for the Los Angeles Angels in the Bronx last August, a hit that Cashman predicted as soon as Teixeira got ahead in the count. And there were the many diving grabs at first base, where doubles died in Teixeira's Gold Glove.
The Yankees formally introduced Teixeira on Tuesday with a news conference at the old Yankee Stadium. Teixeira had been there as a fan when he was 8 or 9 years old, and he idolized Don Mattingly while growing up in Severna Park, Md. After signing for $180 million to play Mattingly's old position for the next eight years, Teixeira knows he is a big part of the Yankees' changing face. 
''I look at myself as a leader,'' Teixeira said. ''First and foremost, I try to do things the right way on the field, and I think you can carry that over to the locker room and earn the respect of your teammates. I've always thought that a team has a few leaders that they look up to, and I've always wanted to be that guy.''
Those qualities came across to Cashman at his own introduction to Teixeira on Dec. 4 at a hotel in Washington. Cashman had taken a train there to meet Teixeira and his agent, Scott Boras, and he spent the day compiling a scouting report to supplement the raw highlights.
They talked about family, routines, influential coaches and Teixeira's assessment of the Yankees. The hours seemed to fly by, said Cashman, who marveled at the lessons Teixeira had absorbed from former teammates like Chipper Jones.
''I was fascinated by that,'' Cashman said. ''He does not seem to be the type that is just talented. He knows what works for him and what may not.''
For years, Boras has succeeded by essentially getting a top club official to fall in love with his client, applying a personal touch to well-known statistics. This case was no different.
The Angels, the Boston Red Sox and Teixeira's hometown teams, the Baltimore Orioles and the Washington Nationals, were also interested. But after the meeting, Cashman had a fuller picture of Teixeira as serious-minded without personal baggage, humble yet sure of himself and hungry for a championship.
Sometime after the meeting -- Cashman was not sure when -- the Yankees made a six- or seven-year offer for $20 million per season that Boras did not accept. The Yankees pulled the offer, and Cashman was unable to convince his boss, Hal Steinbrenner, that Teixeira was worth a longer contract than C. C. Sabathia, who signed for seven years and $161 million.
But Cashman was trying, and he let Boras know that. With the Red Sox unwilling to guarantee $180 million for eight years -- or $176 million for eight, and two options that could have brought the total to $220 million over 10 years -- the Yankees had a chance.
Teixeira said he decided on Dec. 12, in a dinner conversation with his wife, to make the Yankees his first choice if all offers were equal. Yet as late as 11 a.m. on Dec. 23, the Yankees had not made another offer. Boras wanted an answer by 1 p.m. that day, and Cashman said he expected the Red Sox to make the winning bid.
Fearful of that possibility, Steinbrenner finally authorized the magic numbers Teixeira and Boras wanted: eight years for $22.5 million per season.
''A big part of Mark Teixeira -- and I told Scott Boras this -- is we're not just investing in the present, we're investing in the future, in the long term,'' Steinbrenner said. ''It came down to the point we knew Mark needed to make a decision, and it all happened in a hurry.''
Like that, Teixeira acknowledged, the Red Sox were out. They had seemed to be leading the pursuit -- even when they failed to make a deal after a Dec. 18 meeting with Teixeira in Dallas -- but the Yankees' late move made the difference.
''When their offer wasn't with the Yankees','' Teixeira said, referring to the Red Sox, ''and it just didn't look like they were going to continue to better their offer, and the Yankees came in and did what they did, it was an easy decision.''
The Yankees expect to have a lower payroll next season than last year's $209 million, but their winter splurge has bothered other teams. Executives of the Milwaukee Brewers, the Houston Astros and the Pittsburgh Pirates have publicly endorsed a salary cap, but Steinbrenner dismissed such talk.
''This organization does a lot for this industry as a whole, between the merchandise we sell and the tickets we sell and the millions of dollars in revenue sharing we contribute,'' he said. ''If some of the owners are upset that we're trying to invest in the team -- which we do for the fans, and only for the fans -- I'm not going to lose any sleep over it.''
In Teixeira, the Yankees add a player with five consecutive seasons of at least 30 home runs and 100 runs batted in, an active streak matched by only Alex Rodriguez and Albert Pujols. Teixeira has hit .300 with a .400 on-base percentage in each of the last two seasons and has two Gold Gloves.
With the additions of Teixeira, Sabathia and A. J. Burnett, the Yankees seem poised to recover quickly from their third-place finish in the American League East last season. Cashman acknowledged that the emergence of the Tampa Bay Rays had spurred him to bolster the roster -- and, of course, there are always the Red Sox.
For all his optimism Tuesday, Cashman could easily remember a parallel: February 2004, when the Yankees snagged Rodriguez after the Red Sox lost their chance. The Yankees expected to wrest the advantage in their rivalry with that move, but the reverse happened.
''You can't get caught up in that,'' Cashman said. ''People thought that way about Alex, and they've won two championships since. Winning the winter means squat.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Teixeira, in his No. 25 jersey, and Hal Steinbrenner, the Yankees' co-chairman. Teixeira will take over at first base, where as a child he watched his idol Don Mattingly play.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11)
 Mark Teixeira, with wife, Leigh, and agent, Scott Boras, said he decided Dec. 12 on the Yankees with help from Leigh.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); FAMILY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); TEXAS RANGERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



212 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ST. PAUL JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Endless Vote Recounting Tests Minnesota Niceness

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
Minnesota's parodied but also admired temperament of tolerance and equanimity has been seriously strained by the endless campaign for the state's still-unfilled Senate seat.
 Like a January wind-chill, the back-and-forth between Norm Coleman, the Republican incumbent, and his challenger, Al Franken, a Democrat -- and the forever process of recounting and lawyerly sniping that has gone on since Election Day -- is getting a little old even in this capital city of flat-voweled upper Midwest niceness.
 ''I'm fed up,'' said Kevin Monn, a financial adviser who works in St. Paul and voted for Mr. Coleman. 
 Mr. Monn said he thought Minnesotans had been subjected to distortions from the Coleman and Franken campaigns in the last two months, as pitifully tiny handfuls of votes have wavered in the breeze, up for grabs. 
 Many here, including some Coleman supporters, said in interviews on Tuesday that the waning patience factor could bite Mr. Coleman in particular, who said on Tuesday that his lawyers had filed a legal challenge to overturn the latest recount, which gave Mr. Franken a 225-vote advantage out of 2.9 million votes cast.
 The recount was certified on Monday by the bipartisan state canvassing board, but Mr. Franken is prevented from taking office until the legal challenges are resolved. 
 Mr. Monn said he supported Mr. Coleman's right to challenge the recount, but worried about the consequences. 
 ''I think Coleman's got to decide whether he wants future aspirations for politics in this state,'' he said. ''If he drags it out too much farther, he might ruin that.''
 Mr. Coleman, at a news conference, said he understood the impatience people feel. He said he was continuing the fight, which his lawyers said could go on for weeks if not months, to make sure that the process worked correctly and fairly even if the result confirmed a Franken victory.
 ''The eyes of the nation are on the state that we love,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''We need to show them that Minnesota has done everything we can to make sure that we protect every voter's right.'' 
 Some voters said flatly that they believed Mr. Coleman should withdraw.
 ''As of right now, I'd say he should step aside,'' said Brian Kelley, an engineer who works in St. Paul and voted for Mr. Coleman. But Mr. Kelley was not exactly thrilled about what would happen if he got his wish. There is no perfect solution now, Mr. Kelley said, adding, ''I think Franken would go in there with a taint, too.'' 
 Others said they had been ready to throw up their hands -- or just plain throw up -- at both candidates for some time.
 ''I actually lost my patience before the election,'' said Adam Nedry, who so disliked the mudslinging campaigns by both Mr. Coleman and Mr. Franken that he voted for the Independence Party candidate, Dean Barkley.
 Mr. Nedry, who works in risk-management for a financial services firm in St. Paul, said he thought Mr. Barkley, who got 15 percent of the vote, would do much better if the election were held again today. ''I think he'd be more in the 25 percent range now,'' he said.
 But for all the grumbling and frustration, which is easy to find wandering through downtown, many people here also point with pride to how well the process of recounting has worked, especially the openness of the canvassing board, which Webcast its meetings and made every contested absentee ballot available for public inspection.
 The Star Tribune in Minneapolis-St. Paul put more than 6,000 contested ballots on its Web site just before Thanksgiving and invited readers to examine them and say whether they thought a scribble was meant for one candidate or the other. Minnesota Public Radio started a ''Challenged Ballots'' game, asking listeners to come to the station's Web site and decide for themselves, playing along with canvassing board judges in examining the ballots. 
 ''It was incredibly popular -- for weeks on end, it was the No. 1 feature on our Web site,'' said Dennis McGrath, an assistant managing editor at The Star Tribune. ''People would vote on each ballot, and then it would automatically give them the next one -- some went through the whole list.''
 The resulting mix of political transparency, Internet technology and earnest civic mindedness made for a much different recount story than the dramas in Florida in 2000 in the presidential election or Washington State in 2004 in the governor's race, said Edward B. Foley, a professor of law at Ohio State University who has been following Minnesota's tribulations for a book he is writing on contested elections.
 ''There's been a healthy public engagement,'' Professor Foley said. ''It's partly technology, but the primary force is a cultural one. There's a richness to the Minnesota public discourse.''
 Rob Scott, a bond analyst who works in St. Paul and voted for Mr. Franken, agreed that the process had been at least riveting, if not always fun.
 ''Most people who I know who are politically involved have enjoyed getting to know the process again,'' Mr. Scott said. ''It's been educational.''
 Other residents worry that Minnesota is being left in the lurch, and that having a senator -- even maybe one you did not vote for -- would be better than continuing uncertainty. 
 ''I just think it's time to move on. We've got a lot of important things to take care of in this session right now, so we should get somebody in there so they can represent Minnesota,'' said Laura Winge, a creative director for the State Department of Employment and Economic Development.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LAURA WINGE: An artistic director for a state agency
 KEVIN MONN: A financial adviser (PHOTOGRAPHS BY T. C. WORLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); LAWYERS (68%)

PERSON: AL FRANKEN (79%); NORM COLEMAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



213 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Sweet On Caroline

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Ask not, you know, what your country can, like, do for you. Ask what you, um, can, you know, do for your country.
 After a lifetime of shying away from the public spotlight, Caroline Kennedy asked herself what she could do for her country.
 Her soft-spoken answer -- to follow her father and two uncles and serve in the Senate -- got her ripped to shreds in the, you know, press. 
 I know about ''you knows.'' I use that verbal crutch myself, a bad habit that develops from shyness and reticence about public speaking.
 I always thought that Caroline and her brother, John, had special magic capital in America because of their heartbreaking roles in the Kennedy House of Atreus. 
 Joe Kennedy, the wily patriarch of the clan, had pioneered the use of Hollywood glamour in pursuit of Washington power. With his glossy pop-culture political magazine, George, John reversed that equation, using his stature as an American political prince to persuade Salma Hayek to pose on the cover of his magazine.
 I wrote a column once saying that it seemed like a frivolous use of his time. I thought he should run for office and employ his special clout to make life better for Americans. He died before he had the chance.
 So I found it bizarre that when Caroline offered to use her magic capital -- and friendship with Barack Obama -- to help take care of New York in this time of economic distress, she was blasted by a howl of ''How dare she?''
 People are suddenly awfully choosy about who gets to go to the former home of Jesse Helms, Strom Thurmond and Robert Torricelli.
 Although Americans still have enough British in their genes to be drawn to dynasties, W. has no doubt soured the country on scions. And the camps of the other two New York dynasties -- the Clintons (still bitter about Caroline's endorsement of Obama) and the Cuomos (who'd like that Senate seat for Andrew) -- have certainly done their best to undermine Caroline.
 Congress, which abdicated its oversight role as the Bush crew wrecked the globe and the economy, desperately needs fresh faces and new perspectives, an infusion of class, intelligence and guts.
 People complain that the 51-year-old Harvard and Columbia Law School grad and author is not a glib, professional pol who knows how to artfully market herself, and is someone who hasn't spent her life glad-handing, backstabbing and logrolling. I say, thank God. 
 The press whines that she doesn't have a pat answer about why she wants the job. I've interviewed a score of men running for president; not one had a good answer for why he wanted it.
 Robert Duffy, the mayor of Rochester, complained that when the would-be senator visited the Democratic headquarters there recently, she did not respond to pictures in a conference room of her father, mother, brother and herself as a little girl. Isn't it creepy to expect her to emote on cue? Isn't it more authentic to want to keep some of your most private feelings to yourself?
 I know Caroline Kennedy. She's smart, cultivated, serious and unpretentious. The Senate, shamefully sparse on profiles in courage during Dick Cheney's reign of terror, would be lucky to get her. 
 And believe me, she talks a whole lot better than the former junior senator from New York, Al D'Amato, who once wailed that he was ''up to my earballs'' in some mess, and another time complained to me that those ''little Jappies'' bring over boats full of cars and then take the boats back empty.
 Anyhow, it isn't how you say it. It's what you say. Hillary Clinton is a great talker, but she never stood up in the Senate to lead a crusade against any Republican horror show, from Terri Schiavo to the Bush administration's dishonest push to war.
 Sitting in the Senate gallery on Tuesday as senators were sworn in by Dick Cheney, I saw plenty of lawmakers who had benefited from family.
 Two Udalls were being sworn in, under the watchful eye of Stewart Udall. Mark Begich, the new senator from Alaska, is the son of a former Alaska congressman. The classy Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, son of the late Gov. Robert Casey, was there in a festive pink tie. John McCain, whose wife's money and Arizona pull made his Senate election possible, looked on with a smile. Hillary, whose husband paved the way for her to join this club and run for president, chatted with colleagues. Jay Rockefeller wandered about, as did Chris Dodd, son of Senator Thomas Dodd. And Teddy Kennedy, walking with a cane, worked the room with his old brio.
 It isn't what your name is. It's what you do with it. Or, in the case of W., don't. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEN (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); WRITERS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



214 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Would Insure Dependents Up to Age 29

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson will propose that private employers be required to offer health insurance to workers' dependents who are ages 19 to 29, part of what the administration hopes will be a step toward universal health care coverage in New York. 
 Mr. Paterson plans to call for the legislation during his State of the State address on Wednesday afternoon.
 ''This year, we will take another important step as we move toward increasing access to coverage for all New Yorkers,'' Mr. Paterson said in a written statement on Tuesday.
 Currently, employers are not required to offer health insurance to dependents who are older than 18 or, if they are in college, 22.
 The proposal would amount to a wide expansion of coverage to some 800,000 people 19 to 29 years old who are uninsured. And it ties into a continuing initiative by Mr. Paterson, who is asking the State Legislature to approve deep cuts in spending this year, to enhance the kinds of social safety nets that are overwhelmed during an economic downturn.
 According to the governor's office, 31 percent of New York's uninsured are ages 19 to 29. Many of them lose coverage once they graduate from college and remain uninsured until they are able to find a job that offers health insurance. But as the job market worsens, the state anticipates that the issue will become more pressing, with more and more young people unemployed and uninsured.
 If the Legislature approves the proposal, the state expects that about 10 percent, or 80,000 people, will take advantage of it. 
 Paterson administration officials said that the plan would not cost the state or businesses anything. The only cost would be to families that chose to pay for the expanded coverage.
 Kenneth Adams, president of the Business Council of New York State, a group that represents businesses across New York and was briefed on the plan by the governor's advisers, called the proposal ''compelling'' and said that it would be especially critical given the economic climate.
 ''Out of the gate, a program that gets 80,000 New Yorkers health insurance is a good thing,'' Mr. Adams said. ''Considering where the economy is right now, and that by definition this is a tough period for this age group to obtain insurance, it is a very important issue.''
 Mr. Paterson's legislation would round out proposals to expand access to health care that he laid out in his budget for the 2009-10 fiscal year, which begins on April 1. 
 One proposal would simplify the application process for public health insurance programs by eliminating the requirement for face-to-face interviews, among other things. Another proposal would expand eligibility for the state's Family Health Plus insurance program, which covers people who exceed the limits for Medicaid eligibility. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); APPROVALS (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); K S ADAMS JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



215 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Economists Warm to Government Spending but Debate Its Form

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Frightened by the recession and the credit crisis that produced it, the nation's mainstream economists are embracing public spending to repair the damage -- even those who have long resisted a significant government role in a market system.
But there is not much agreement yet on what type of spending would produce the best results, or what mix of spending and tax cuts. 
''We have spent so many years thinking that discretionary fiscal policy was a bad idea, that we have not figured out the right things to do to cure a recession that is scaring all of us,'' said Alan J. Auerbach, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, referring to the mix of public spending and tax cuts known as fiscal policy.
Hundreds of economists who gathered here for the annual meeting of the American Economic Association seemed to acknowledge that a profound shift had occurred.
At their last annual meeting, ideas about using public spending as a way to get out of a recession or about government taking a role to enhance a market system were relegated to progressives. The mainstream was skeptical or downright hostile to such suggestions. This time, virtually everyone voiced their support, returning to a way of thinking that had gone out of fashion in the 1970s.
''The new enthusiasm for fiscal stimulus, and particularly government spending, represents a huge evolution in mainstream thinking,'' said Janet Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. She added that the shift was likely to last for as long as the profession is dominated by men and women living through this downturn.
The few sessions that dealt with fiscal policy were packed with economists, mostly from academia. Nearly all argued that public spending can be more effective than tax cuts in getting out of a bad recession. Still, they said the present crisis required, as a tonic, a mix of the two, and they debated what that mix should be, just as President-elect Obama's transition team is now doing.
Their proposals were all over the lot. But at the formal sessions and in more than a dozen interviews, many said that once the recession ended, the nation should not go back to the system that held sway from Ronald Reagan's election in 1980 to the present crisis. It was one in which taxes, regulation and public spending were minimized.
For Peter Gottschalk, a labor economist at Boston College, who earned his Ph.D. in 1973, the transition has not been easy. Keynesian economics, with its emphasis on a government role in the marketplace, was losing its grip when he started his career. Indeed, the present upheaval has been outside the theoretical boundaries of mainstream economics as practiced for a generation by most of the nation's economists.
''Our models are built on the assumption that on average people behave rationally and they do the right thing,'' Mr. Gottschalk said, ''but this time people did very much the wrong thing. It's like thinking you have a disease under control and then being hit with a new strain of it.''
Since the 1970s, the Federal Reserve has dealt with recessions by lowering interest rates, thus reviving demand by making it less expensive to borrow and to spend. But this time, the credit system is broken, and those who can borrow at relatively low rates are reluctant to spend. That shifts the burden of lifting the economy to fiscal policy, namely the $600 billion to $800 billion mix of tax cuts and spending that the Obama administration and Congress are likely to agree on early this year.
Nearly every economist who spoke here agreed that a dollar invested in, say, a new transit system or in bridge repair is spent and respent more efficiently than a dollar that comes to a household in a tax cut. A bigger percentage of the latter is saved, they said. There was concern, however, that the nation lacked enough ''shovel ready'' projects that could be ramped up quickly, generating jobs.
What is more, the economists did not agree on the best projects to pursue. As Mr. Auerbach pointed out, after a generation of ignoring public spending in their research, the nation's mainstream economists lacked the expertise to help guide the process. ''We have not figured out the right course of action,'' he said.
There were plenty of proposals at the three-day convention. Some argued for a big investment in broadband. Others proposed recruiting young people for two-year stints weather-stripping and upgrading privately owned and public buildings. Still others argued that government should step up subsidies for basic research and product innovation.
And Daniel J. B. Mitchell, a professor emeritus at the University of California, Los Angeles, proposed that Washington channel money to cities with the proviso that they purchase municipal buses from General Motors, which makes them, or yellow school buses. The Ford Motor Company manufactures the school bus chassis.
''That is a better fiscal stimulus than to bail out the auto companies,'' Mr. Mitchell said.
No one illustrated the conversion to fiscal stimulus more vividly than Martin Feldstein, a Harvard economist and a well-known conservative who served for a time as a top economic adviser to President Reagan. In a paper, Mr. Feldstein noted that the usual method of reviving the economy -- lower interest rates -- was failing to work because of ''a dysfunctional credit market.''
That left fiscal stimulus to offset what he described as a decline of $400 billion a year in consumer spending. ''While good tax policy can contribute to ending the recession, the heavy lifting will have to be done by increased government spending,'' Mr. Feldstein said.
He pushed for big spending, carried out quickly. Among his proposals: replace depleted military supplies and equipment and step up financing for ''useful research.'' He also said that the shortage of ''shovel ready'' projects should not be a deterrent in a recession that is likely to last long enough to plan and execute new projects.
''It is of course possible that the planned surge in government spending will fail,'' Mr. Feldstein said. But he expressed the ''hope that the new program of fiscal spending in combination with mortgage market reforms will be sufficient to return the economy to full employment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Infrastructure projects should be part of any stimulus, many experts agreed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE DERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Janet Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said economic thought was undergoing a major shift.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MEN (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



216 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 405 words

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
HE HAS THE KEYS
The Cabbies Need
As the man who hands out the keys to 165 yellow cabs for a fleet company on West 44th Street, Enrique Sandoval has an interesting take on the New York City cab scene. 
Mr. Sandoval gives the keys to drivers renting from the company, Style Management, for 12-hour shifts.
''Twelve hours is a long time to drive, especially in Manhattan, and when the drivers finish, they're too tired to find a parking spot,'' he said this week, keys spread out on the trunk of a cab on 44th near 10th Avenue.
Parking here is scarce, so as the cabs cycle in and out of use, Mr. Sandoval and a partner jockey them around -- even double parking or leaving them on a sidewalk -- until they're up for duty again.
Cabbies pulled up, handed keys to Mr. Sandoval and slouched homeward. Drivers beginning their shifts were much more chipper. They shouted out the medallion numbers for the cabs they were renting -- 5Z29, 9Y40 and so on -- and joked with Mr. Sandoval and tipped him a dollar or two, ''because when they finish, I park the cab for them,'' Mr. Sandoval said.
''We have mostly Arabs, Africans and Hindus, and some Latinos and Chinese,'' he said. ''I hear all their stories. Some are refugees, some were well-respected doctors in their countries, but here they have to drive a cab. We have one very important woman, from Somalia, who was a big government official. She was like the Hillary Clinton of Somalia, but here, she drives a cab.''
He said the recession had brought in more people seeking work as cabdrivers.
''We have a few guys who owned their own businesses,'' he said, ''but now they have no money. They say: ''We didn't save. We threw it away.' ''
With the holiday season ebbing, he said, cabs were renting for as little as $55 for a 12-hour shift.
''A good driver on a Friday or Saturday night can make over $300, easy,'' he said. ''But other nights are dead. You have to know where to go, for fares, or you'll make $35.''
COREY KILGANNON COMMENT
OF THE DAY
Bloomberg's Defense
Of the Gaza Incursion
''Dear Mike,
While you were away, New Jersey occupied the lower Hudson River Valley and blockaded Manhattan. Your move.
Love,
Reality''
-- Tim Bergen
ALSO
ON THE BLOG
Grand Theater to Chain Store: The fate of the Art Deco jewel box known as the Metro Theater was revealed on Monday with news that Urban Outfitters had signed a 20-year lease for the entire building, one of the most recognizable landmarks on upper Broadway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Enrique Sandoval, the source for cabdrivers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: URBAN OUTFITTERS INC (50%)

TICKER: URBN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOMALIA (92%); AFRICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



217 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Black Caucus Assesses Its Role Under a Black President

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
These were supposed to be heady days for members of the Congressional Black Caucus, a time of celebration ahead of the inauguration of the first black president. 
 Instead, the contested appointment of Roland W. Burris to fill the Illinois Senate seat vacated by President-elect Barack Obama has added further discomfort to an already rough period for the Black Caucus. The refusal by Senate Democrats to seat Mr. Burris on Tuesday has also splintered the caucus and caused a dust storm of racial politics at a time when many Americans hoped Mr. Obama's election was a sign that the country was moving beyond its racially troubled past. 
 For 40 years, the caucus has been the center of black power in Washington, the go-to group for anyone hoping to court the black population and the politicians who represent them. But as Mr. Obama prepares to take office, shifting power to the White House in ways both real and symbolic, caucus members have been wrestling with an unsettling reality: the new president can propel their agenda but he may also diminish their influence. 
 Some Black Caucus members now rank among the most influential leaders in the House, including Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, who is the majority whip, as well as the chairmen of three major committees. Some lawmakers insist the caucus will be more powerful during the Obama presidency. 
 The Black Caucus is going through an identity crisis. In recent weeks, leaders of the caucus found themselves defending the need for their group, composed of 41 House Democrats. It also is in the midst of an uneasy generational shift, as the old lions of the civil rights era begin to give way to a younger generation of black politicians who do not want to be pigeonholed by race. 
 But all that introspection seems quaint given some of the angry rhetoric that followed the appointment of Mr. Burris, a former state attorney general, by Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois. Mr. Blagojevich first offered the job to Representative Danny K. Davis, a prominent member of the caucus who turned it down. 
 Mr. Davis and several other caucus members, including Representatives Bobby L. Rush of Illinois and Donald M. Payne of New Jersey, and Donna M. C. Christensen, a delegate from the Virgin Islands, have urged Senate Democratic leaders to drop their refusal to seat Mr. Burris.
 A number of other caucus leaders, including the incoming caucus chairwoman, Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California, have declined to comment on the situation. On Tuesday, Ms. Lee said the caucus had not met since the appointment of Mr. Burris and, with a wave of her hand, she declined to offer her view.
 While Mr. Obama has said Mr. Burris should not be seated, many of his former colleagues on the caucus have so far preferred to remain silent.
 Each year, a who's who of American corporations give hundreds of thousands of dollars to the caucus political action committee and millions more to the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, a separate nonprofit group that runs programs in education, health care and economic development. Those contributions have given rise to criticisms that the caucus has become too beholden to powerful interests. 
 Some black advocates and organizers said that Mr. Obama's selection of a number of blacks to high-level positions, including Eric H. Holder Jr. as attorney general, Susan E. Rice as ambassador to the United Nations and Valerie Jarrett as senior adviser, makes it more likely that the new administration would supplant the caucus on black issues, or at least provide alternative levers of power. 
 ''Nobody is confident of how to move in the presence of a black president,'' said Glen Ford, executive editor of Black Agenda Report, an Internet-based political journal. ''It has never happened before. How does one organize when the brother is in the White House?'' 
 As the only black senator, Mr. Obama was a member of the caucus but attended meetings only occasionally. His age and relatively moderate politics put him in the right-leaning camp of the heavily liberal group. Caucus members clearly rejoice in Mr. Obama's election; many can describe exactly when and why their tears started to flow on election night. But many members initially supported Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York over Mr. Obama. Already, there have been signs of unease.
 As his first appointment, Mr. Obama selected Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois to be his chief of staff, opting for a white, Jewish centrist who has clashed at times with the more liberal members of the Black Caucus. 
 After Ms. Lee was elected as chairwoman of the caucus, she made clear that black lawmakers would not rely on Mr. Obama to champion the causes dear to the caucus. 
 ''Certainly President-elect Obama is a member of the Congressional Black Caucus,'' she said, ''but I think it's important to recognize that he's the president of the country.'' 
 While there are indications that Mr. Obama and the Black Caucus do not want to be viewed synonymously, he occasionally sends signals that he counts black Americans as an important constituency. After agreeing to postelection appearances on ''60 Minutes'' on CBS and with Barbara Walters on ABC, for instance, he gave his first print interview to Ebony magazine. 
 In interviews, some prominent black lawmakers said they expected the caucus to remind Mr. Obama of his roots. 
 ''Barack Obama needs to hear from us,'' Mr. Clyburn said. ''And we need to be a sounding board for him.''
 Aides to Mr. Obama say his focus on improving the economy is a prime example of his agenda being in harmony with that of the caucus, given the higher percentage of black Americans who are unemployed. But skeptics say addressing the broader economic problems is not the same as fixing the underlying reasons for higher black unemployment.
 Former Representative J. C. Watts of Oklahoma, a black Republican who refused to join the caucus because of its traditional dominance by Democrats, said he expected that tensions between the group and Mr. Obama would be likely to emerge behind closed doors. Such strains, Mr. Watts predicted, will be likely to involve members of the old guard, like Mr. Clyburn, who as majority whip is the No. 3 Democrat in the House. 
 ''I think Jim has a lot of influence with the C.B.C. members, he'll have a big stick at the leadership table and he'll carry a pretty decent size stick with the White House,'' Mr. Watts said. ''I'd love to be a fly on the wall, when they have some of those contentious issues, when you have Jim Clyburn and Rahm Emanuel trying to work through.''
 Stress within the organization over its identity may also intensify in the coming weeks. Anh Cao, a newly elected Vietnamese-American Republican from a predominantly black district in Louisiana, has asked to join the caucus, which has repeatedly refused membership to nonblacks. 
 Some black Democrats predicted that their caucus would have more muscle than ever with Mr. Obama in the White House, and that there was enormous comfort in the prospect of a president who would understand their struggles. 
 Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, a founding member of the caucus, said, ''As an African-American, we spend half of our time trying to explain to people why we need help and the stigma of slavery, and prejudice and discrimination.''
 ''If you have a president who knows all of this, then you go straight to the quick,'' Mr. Rangel added. ''We won't get preferential treatment because we are black, but he will know who we are and what the struggle is and why our legislative agenda is there.'' 
 Members of the caucus say they expect Mr. Obama first and foremost to be president, not the black president. 
 ''I don't think we are going to be walking up to him and saying, 'Brother President,' '' Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia said at a forum at Williams College in Massachusetts. 
 ''Maybe some of us will have the desire to say 'Brother President,' '' Mr. Lewis said, ''but we will respect him as Mr. President, and we will respect the office.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday greeted Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York as he and other Congressional Black Caucus members were sworn in.
Representative James E. Clyburn, center, the House majority whip, was acknowledged by his Black Caucus colleagues.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Even before being sworn in, the Black Caucus faced challenges like the dispute over the seating of Roland W. Burris in the Senate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICK PERRY (76%); JAMES CLYBURN (73%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); BOBBY L RUSH (58%); BARBARA LEE (58%); DONALD M PAYNE (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); DANNY K DAVIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



218 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Richardson Withdrawal Hurts Obama's Southwest Strategy

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The withdrawal of Gov. Bill Richardson's nomination as Commerce secretary was more than just a jolt to President-elect Barack Obama's otherwise smooth transition. It was a setback for a less-remarked-on but politically significant aspect of the selection of Mr. Obama's cabinet -- the extent to which it reflects a marked attempt to consolidate Democratic gains in the Southwest, a crucial political target for Democrats as the party takes control of the White House.
 Mr. Obama's advisers said that where cabinet officials came from was not the main factor in making these selections. But they said it certainly was one, an extension of the effort by Mr. Obama in the campaign to take advantage of changing demographic patterns to move states like Colorado, New Mexico, and Nevada into the Democratic column. 
 ''We are conscious of the political and demographic changes in the political Southwest, and these appointments are a reflection of the growing importance of the Southwest to the Democratic Party,'' said Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's designated chief of staff. ''It is not the reason they were made: But we are conscious of the benefits that can come from it.''
 Mr. Richardson, of New Mexico, was one of three prominent elected officials from that part of the country chosen for cabinet positions, joining Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Mr. Obama's pick to lead the Department of Homeland Security, and Senator Ken Salazar of Colorado, his choice to be Interior secretary. Mr. Richardson withdrew in the face of a federal grand jury investigation into state corruption that he said risked slowing his confirmation at a time when Mr. Obama wants to move urgently to address the deteriorating economy; there is no indication that either of the other two nominations face any trouble.
 In an interview, Mr. Emanuel was quick to rattle off -- apparently from memory -- all the gains that Democrats had made in Congressional and Senate seats in that section of the country over the past four years. And in November, in one of the more politically significant outcomes of the election, Mr. Obama won Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico after making a huge effort there. And there is reason to believe that he might have won Arizona as well, were it not for the fact that his opponent was Senator John McCain of Arizona.
 There is a regional logic to the picks. As Interior secretary, Mr. Salazar will be in a position of obvious interest to Western states like Colorado, and can draw on long experience with land and conservation issues. Ms. Napolitano's experience as a border state governor could serve her and the new administration well when it comes to one of the most politically sensitive issues in her portfolio as Homeland Security chief, illegal immigration. 
 Mr. Emanuel disputed the notion that the Richardson withdrawal represented a setback to this strategy. But Mr. Emanuel would give no clue about who the incoming Obama administration might be considering for the post, much less what part of the country the new nominee would come from.
 More than that, he would not entertain questions about whether the Obama administration's eagerness to get Mr. Richardson into the Obama cabinet might have contributed to what appeared to be an uncharacteristic laxness in what has, for the most part, been a very rigorous and disciplined vetting operation. 
 The existence of the grand jury investigation in New Mexico was hardly a secret, and Mr. Richardson's view of it -- that he was not implicated in the investigation in any way -- has not changed. The sop-to-the-Southwest angle was just one of several reasons why Mr. Obama might have been eager to get Mr. Richardson into the cabinet: Mr. Richardson is Hispanic and gave Mr. Obama a crucial endorsement during the primary process.
 And Mr. Obama was putting him in a position -- Commerce secretary -- that has frequently been used to pay back political supporters; Mr. Richardson had hoped to be tapped to be secretary of State. (One interesting tidbit: had Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton won the White House, her campaign chairman, Terry McAuliffe, had made clear that Commerce was the job he would have wanted; her husband, Bill Clinton, gave it to his Democratic National Committee chairman, Ron Brown.)
 Whatever happens now with the post, there is perhaps no better indication of how this new White House perceived the changing political map than to compare the Southwest with the South, the most Republican part of the country these days. There is, at least, arguably, just one cabinet nominee from the South -- Ron Kirk, the United States Trade Representative. And Mr. Kirk is from Texas (which culturally is at least as much a part of the Southwest as of the Deep South) and the Trade Rep is not exactly a top-tier cabinet member.
 ''While some have said, 'Where is the South in the Cabinet?,' I have said, 'Look what we have done in the Southwest!''' Mr. Emanuel said. ''And that says a lot about what was done here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); CORRUPTION (63%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); GRAND JURY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL RICHARDSON (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (78%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



219 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: New Voices in Congress Will Change the Tone of the Democratic Majority

BYLINE: By KATE PHILLIPS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- From a former Nixon aide to a former head of Common Cause, a liberal government watchdog organization, the freshman House class of the 111th Congress represents a diverse but decidedly moderate group. 
 At age 66, the oldest two -- Walt Minnick of Idaho, the Nixon aide who is now a Democrat, and Parker Griffith of Alabama have birthdays about a month apart; the youngest, Aaron Schock of Illinois, is 27. Some have no government experience at all; others like Pete Olson who returned Tom DeLay's congressional seat to the Republicans this cycle worked for the veteran Senator John Cornyn of Texas. 
 On the Senate side, newcomers include Western Democrats like the Udall cousins, Tom and Mark. Several younger senators are coming on board including newly appointed Michael Bennet of Denver, who is 44; Mark Warner, 54, of Virginia and Mark Begich, 46, of Alaska. They are filling seats vacated by such institutional titans as John Warner, 81, of Virginia (no relation) and Ted Stevens, 85, of Alaska. 
 With their formal swearing-in ceremony on Tuesday, the new members offer Democrats expanded majorities in both the House (257-178) and the Senate. If the contretemps over the Minnesota and Illinois Senate seats is resolved in the Democrats' favor, the Senate majority would be 59-41, which includes two independents. But with even at an overall size of 54 new House members, this freshman class falls far short of one of the largest 118 new members in 1949 or an average size of about 82 since 1913. 
 Building on the 2006 class that gave Democrats a majority, this freshman class serves to broaden a moderate coalition considered more conservative on social issues, particularly in the House. The Democratic leadership almost certainly will be mindful -- as it was in the 2008 election -- of the members' individual vulnerabilities, especially since several were elected by extraordinarily narrow margins. 
 Gary C. Jacobson, an expert on Congress and a professor at the University of California/San Diego, described the cumulative impact of the 2006 and 2008 elections: ''I think the effect is to move the Democratic caucus somewhat to the right and if it wants to stay as large as it is now, it has to accommodate these folks.
 ''You're not going to see any wild, left-wing policymaking,'' he added. ''You're not going to get the Berkeley wish-list out of this crowd.'' 
 The economic stimulus package, despite a presumed solidarity on the need to shore up the national economy, poses significant tests for new and returning lawmakers. Mr. Minnick has already joined the emerging chorus of conservative Democrats, sometimes known as blue-dog Democrats, to sound alarms over the potential for ballooning deficits sure to accompany a stimulus package estimated at $875 billion to a trillion dollars. ''I feel very strongly that the federal government needs to live within its means,'' Mr. Minnick, a timber executive from Boise, said in an interview as he went about furnishing what he termed a ''graduate student apartment'' of a two-room basement dwelling on Capitol Hill this past weekend.
 Describing himself as a fiscal conservative, Mr. Minnick asked: ''What rules are we going to put in place to ensure that this is a onetime circumstance and not the way we're going to operate in the indefinite future?'' He said he would have trouble supporting legislation without some assurances that ''pay-as-you-go'' rules would be considered later on.
 Aaron Schock, the 27-year-old Republican from Illinois, was even more insistent that taxpayers have grown increasingly impatient with bailout after bailout. ''There's a level of frustration from people saying enough taking care of fat cats, the executives, the stockholders,'' he said.
 The Democratic leadership in the House, headed by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, will have its hands full with worriers in the new class. And the leaders may not be able to scrape up votes from across the aisle. Both Mr. Jacobson and Thomas E. Mann, a congressional expert and Brookings Institute senior fellow, pointed out that the House Republican caucus has calcified into a more conservative bloc because of retirements of its moderate members. The 2008 election saw the defeat of the last New England Republican, Chris Shays of Connecticut. 
 Other demographic changess presage a different sensibility. Drew Hammill, a top aide to Mrs. Pelosi, pointed to a generational shift. Aside from Mr. Schock, several House freshmen are in their 30's, pushing the average age of the freshmen a bit downward from the new class average in the mid-to-late 40s.
 The class also offers two new ethnic firsts: Steve Austria, a Republican from Ohio's 7th Congressional District, is the first Filipino-American and Anh (Joseph) Cao, the Republican who defeated William Jefferson in Louisiana, is the first Vietnamese-American. In addition, Jared Polis of Colorado is the first openly gay male candidate and non-incumbent to be elected to the House. (While there are other gay members, notably Barney Frank, their orientation was not public at the time of their first elective bids, aides to the House said.)
 The Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life recently offered a breakdown of House and Senate affiliations. The study indicated few variances between House and Senate members, with a little more than a majority identifying themselves as Protestant and a little less than one-third as Catholic. Jews make up 13 percent of the Senate and 7 percent in the House, while Mormons are 5 percent in the Senate and 2 percent in the House. Baptists account for 13 percent of House members and 8 percent of senators. The House now includes two Muslims, Keith Ellison of Minnesota and Andre Carson of Indiana; and two Buddhists; Representatives Hank Johnson of Georgia and Mazie K. Hirono of Hawaii, although she describes herself as non-practicing. 
 The Democratic victories across the board from Barack Obama to the House to the Senate -- demonstrate some semblance of shifts in the electorate, an historical look at incoming Congresses suggest that the party's boasts ignore historic shifts that were far more seismic. 
 The 1970 census, for example, catapulted into office an enormous class of new members, according to the Congressional Research Service. After World War II, each new Congress averaged about 78 new representatives. To some extent, in recent memory, incumbency reached a new high and those incoming classes shrunk to an average in the 50's in the last decade or so, putting the new class in line with the last few decades. 
 But the census in 2010 will surely result in more changes in redistricting. Already, election studies show that states like Ohio and Pennsylvania will lose seats, and Texas may gain as many as four congressional seats. That will indeed shift the balance of ideology, and perhaps push new issues to the forefront.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (74%); CAUCUSES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (84%)

PERSON: MARK WARNER (79%); JOHN WARNER (78%); JOHN CORNYN (74%); TED STEVENS (58%); PETE OLSON (57%); PARKER GRIFFITH (57%); MICHAEL BENNET (57%); WALT MINNICK (57%); AARON SCHOCK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



220 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Obama Warns of Prospect For Trillion-Dollar Deficits

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and EDMUND L. ANDREWS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President-elect Barack Obama on Tuesday braced Americans for the unparalleled prospect of ''trillion-dollar deficits for years to come,'' a stark assessment of the budgetary outlook that he said would force his administration to impose tighter fiscal discipline on the government.
Mr. Obama sought to distinguish between the need to run what is likely to be record-setting deficits for several years and the necessity to begin bringing them down markedly in subsequent years. Even as he prepares a stimulus plan that is expected to total nearly $800 billion in new spending and tax cuts over the next two years, he said he would make sure the money was wisely spent, and he pledged to work with Congress to enact spending controls and efficiency measures throughout the federal budget.
''We're not going to be able to expect the American people to support this critical effort unless we take extraordinary steps to ensure that the investments are made wisely and managed well,'' Mr. Obama said, speaking about the dire fiscal outlook after meeting with his economic team for a second straight day. 
In his most explicit language on the subject since winning the election, Mr. Obama sought to reassure lawmakers and the financial markets that he was aware of the long-term dangers of running huge deficits and would take steps to limit and eventually reduce them.
Big deficits force the government to borrow more money, saddling future generations with large financial burdens and leaving the nation reliant on foreign governments and other big investors to lend cash. The problem is even more acute now because credit markets, which in recent months have made it much harder and more expensive for businesses and individuals to borrow, could be further strained by financing a huge government deficit.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama plans to name a chief performance officer with the task of finding government efficiencies. He has chosen Nancy Killefer, who is director of McKinsey & Company, a management consulting firm, and was an assistant secretary of the Treasury in the Clinton administration. The Congressional Budget Office will also release its latest budget estimates, providing the first official predictions of the shortfalls tied to the economic slowdown and the fallen financial markets.
Mr. Obama has made the economy virtually the sole public focus of his first full week in Washington since winning the election. He called on Tuesday for the creation of an economic recovery oversight board that would include outside advisers to monitor spending -- and find abuses -- of the economic stimulus plan. He also said earmarks for lawmakers' special projects would be banned from the bill.
''When the American people spoke last November, they were demanding change -- change in policies that helped deliver the worst economic crisis that we've see since the Great Depression,'' Mr. Obama told reporters at his transition offices. He added, ''They were demanding that we restore a sense of responsibility and prudence to how we run our government.''
But Republicans and some fiscally conservative Democrats have expressed concern that the need for a substantial economic stimulus plan could sweep away for years any serious effort to bring government spending into line with its revenues.
While economists almost universally support running large deficits to combat the kind of steep recession the country is grappling with now, they are increasingly expressing alarm at the prospect of sustained fiscal imbalances heading into a period in which the aging of the population will create huge budgetary strains because of the growing costs of the Medicare and Social Security programs.
Still, the deficit now seems likely to be so large that it will inevitably constrain Mr. Obama's administration to some degree. At a minimum, it seems sure to force him to walk a line between maintaining the confidence of the financial markets, which could drive interest rates up sharply if they doubt his will or ability to improve the government's financial condition in the long run, and various constituencies that will be pressing him to make good on his campaign promises.
Mr. Obama has so far not backed away from any of the big initiatives he ran on, including his plan to expand health insurance. On that issue, as on others, he has begun making a case that the economically prudent course is to invest now in addressing the nation's big challenges rather than avoiding them in the name of saving money in the short run.
Mr. Obama was not specific about the size of the deficit he expects, beyond his reference to ''a trillion-dollar deficit or close to a trillion-dollar deficit'' for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. Aides said later that the estimate -- in line with what economists have been anticipating given the economy's rapid deterioration -- did not include the costs of the proposed stimulus package, which could add hundreds of billions of dollars more to the red ink.
At $1 trillion, the deficit would not only shatter the largest previous shortfall in dollar terms -- $455 billion last year -- but it could also exceed the post-World War II-era record by the measure more meaningful in economic terms, the deficit as a percentage of total economic activity.
Diane Rogers, chief economist at the Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan organization that supports fiscal discipline, estimated that the deficit this year would hit 7 percent of the gross domestic product. The largest previous record in those terms was in 1983, when it hit 6 percent.
Mr. Obama declined to say on Tuesday whether the budget that his administration submits to Congress in February would be larger than the $3.1 trillion budget that President Bush submitted for the current fiscal year. He also did not offer any specific examples of how spending could be controlled, saying only that his advisers had been scouring the budget looking for programs that could be eliminated.
''I'm going to be willing to make some very difficult choices in how we get a handle on his deficit,'' Mr. Obama said. ''That's what the American people are looking for and, you know, what we intended to do this year.''
But the short-term budget shortfalls are big enough to pose serious headaches in themselves, especially if bond investors start demanding higher interest rates.
In just the first three months of the 2009 fiscal year, which began on Oct. 1, the government spent $408 billion more than it took in. About one-third of that shortfall stemmed from the Treasury Department's rescue program of injecting capital into banks, which the government will book as an ''investment'' rather than ''spending.''
The recession itself will add hundreds of billions of dollars to the deficit. Even before Congress adds any new stimulus measures, higher outlays will climb for existing unemployment benefits, food stamps and other social programs. Tax revenues will fall because of rising unemployment, falling corporate profits and huge investment losses in the stock and bond markets. Mr. Obama's stimulus program could add another $400 billion in each of the next two years.
''One thing investors have to be thinking is, what's the exit strategy? How do we unwind this stuff?'' said Robert Bixby, director of the Concord Coalition. ''I would analogize it to what the government is doing with the auto companies. Congress said, we'll give you the money but you have to show us a plan for sustainability.''
Mr. Bixby added, ''Now the government is in the same position of the auto companies, but they haven't come up with any plan for sustainability.''
As the latest budget estimates are released on Wednesday, the good news, at least for the moment, is that the Treasury's borrowing costs are as almost as low as they have ever been. Short-term Treasury rates are hovering just above zero, but the rates on 10-year Treasury bonds are about 2.5 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama on Tuesday at a meeting with designated aides, from left, Rahm Emanuel, Peter R. Orszag, Rob Nabors and Christina D. Romer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); TAX LAW (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); NANCY KILLEFER (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



221 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. and Clean Air

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Here's why your Dec. 25 editorial ''E.P.A.'s Doctor No'' misses the mark. 
 In 2002, President Bush asked Congress to give the Environmental Protection Agency the authority to develop a market-based strategy for controlling interstate pollution. Congress failed to act, and the E.P.A. developed the Clean Air Interstate Rule using existing authorities. The Court of Appeals has now said the E.P.A. acted beyond its authority. Action by Congress would have avoided this uncertainty.
 With respect to energy security and climate change, in 2007, as the president requested, Congress enacted legislation to increase renewable fuels production and improve fuel economy. The Department of Transportation and the E.P.A. are working to carry out these programs.
 More needs to be done on other sources of greenhouse gas emissions, but existing Clean Air Act authorities could well be cumbersome and ill suited. Congress should act to avoid years of litigation and regulatory uncertainty.
 Stephen L. Johnson Administrator Environmental Protection Agency Washington, Dec. 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); LITIGATION (70%); BIOFUELS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); APPEALS COURTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



222 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Lift the Lowly Bureaucrat to a Status of Cherished Public Servant

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
There is West Point for soldiers, and Annapolis for sailors, but no parallel place of grit and glory for that maligned tribe of government workers known as bureaucrats.
 Chris Myers Asch is trying to change that. 
 With no money, contacts or obvious qualifications, Mr. Asch quit his job three years ago at a Mississippi after-school program and started a campaign to create a civilian service academy -- a West Point for bureaucrats.
 What began on the back of an envelope found a champion in Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, legislative allies in the House and Senate, and a glimmer of plausibility in an age where President-elect Barack Obama pledges to ''make government cool again'' -- the very words Mr. Asch has long used to sell his plan. 
 ''The Public Service Academy can be Barack Obama's Peace Corps,'' Mr. Asch said. ''He needs to take advantage of this moment when people are recognizing the importance of government and build institutions that will last.''
 There is no word on whether Mr. Obama agrees, but the proposed academy has drawn past endorsements from the vice president-elect, Joseph R. Biden Jr.; the incoming White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel; and at least three cabinet nominees. People who once mocked Mr. Asch's presumption now congratulate him on his timing.
 The surprising ascent of Mr. Asch's idea can be read as an upbeat tale of Washington's openness to a citizen-advocate (Mr. Asch's view) or evidence of its enduring weakness for expensive big-government schemes (as some of his critics contend). 
 But it is also a sign of something more basic: the frustration Americans feel with the bureaucratic status quo. 
 ''There's no doubt that we don't have the best and brightest in government,'' said Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican who has joined Mrs. Clinton, Democrat of New York, in proposing legislation to create an academy. 
 A former elementary school teacher with black belts in two martial arts, Mr. Asch, 35, has labored with such ascetic focus and cheerful earnestness that even his plan's detractors call him a ''sweet'' and ''admirable'' guy.
 He argues that American culture derides government work and dissuades bright young people from pursuing it. Campuses glorify material gain, he said, and even students who choose public service often enter the nonprofit world. The result, he argues, is weakened bureaucracies behind disasters as different as the Sept. 11 attacks and the response to Hurricane Katrina. 
 ''When government institutions fail, people die,'' he said.
 Like its military counterparts, the United States Public Service Academy would offer a free four-year education in exchange for five years of government service. Supporters see both substantive and symbolic benefits: 1,200 skilled graduates a year, spread across federal, state and local agencies, and a flagship institution that would give new prestige to government work.
 ''Creating a public service academy would send a clear message that public service is a priority,'' Mrs. Clinton said last week in a written statement.
 Mr. Asch said an academy could change attitudes toward government work, ''the way Teach for America has changed the way people feel about public education.'' 
 Critics range from small-government conservatives who deride what they call ''Bureaucracy U'' to representatives of public administration schools, who say they already train people for government jobs. 
 Some object to the proposed cost, $200 million a year. Some doubt whether the academy could compete with elite private schools for students and faculty members. Some warn of creating a clubby group of superbureaucrats.
 Many argue that an academy, however good, would not address the problems young people often see with government jobs. Those include a difficult application process, lower pay than some private-sector jobs, and civil service rules that emphasize seniority, making it hard for young workers to gain promotions.
 ''An academy would not fix that,'' said Philip I. Levy, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. 
 Stephen Joel Trachtenberg, president emeritus of George Washington University, notes that the country already has about 150 schools of public administration. (There is one named for him.) Rather than a civilian West Point, he suggests creating a civilian version of the Reserve Officer Training Corps -- offering scholarships at existing schools in exchange for future service.
 Mr. Asch notes that most of the public administration programs are for graduate students, who often take nongovernment jobs. He wants undergraduates to have ''a whole campus of people who are committed to a shared mission.''
 Fondness for government workers comes naturally to Mr. Asch. His father spent 36 years in the Foreign Service. His mother is a civilian doctor at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. Mr. Asch attended Washington's public schools and chafed when friends at private schools put them down.
 After graduating from Duke in 1994, he spent three years in Sunflower, Miss., with the Teach for America Program, which recruits recent college graduates to teach in the nation's poorest schools. Then he founded an after-school and summer program and earned a doctorate in Southern history.
 He had been mulling the academy for a while, he said, when the botched response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 ''got me off my duff.'' He recruited a partner (Shawn Raymond, a Houston lawyer), and sent his plan to everyone he could, working for months with no salary. In the spring of 2006, an editor at The Washington Post visited Mississippi and heard of Mr. Asch's idea. The resulting article reached Mrs. Clinton, and by that September she had introduced a bill. The latest version has 23 Senate sponsors and 123 in the House, though few Republicans.
 Mr. Asch now works from a donated office near the Capitol, with a foundation grant of $30,000 and the support of his wife, a rabbi. He has not yet landed Mr. Obama. Mr. Asch cornered the president-elect at two fund-raisers last year, and plied him with quotations from his own book about the nobility of public service. Their exchanges yielded nothing firmer than ''I'll look into it.''
 Still, when Mr. Obama's wife, Michelle Obama, spoke in Cincinnati last year, she found a friendly man standing nearby with his baby in his arms and a pamphlet in his hand. ''It was shameless but it worked,'' Mr. Asch said. ''She came over and held the baby and she sounded interested. She put me in touch with the staff.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Myers Asch is promoting the creation of a Public Service Academy, a sort of West Point for bureaucrats offering a free four-year education in exchange for five years of government service.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); HURRICANES (60%); MARTIAL ARTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



223 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: City Gives Up Its Stadium Suite in Exchange for Cash

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
After intense criticism, the Bloomberg administration has given up a perk it worked fervently to secure: a free luxury suite at the new Yankee Stadium.
 The city will relinquish use of the 12-seat box in exchange for whatever revenue the Yankees generate by selling the seats, minus the cost of marketing them. Although neither the city nor the Yankees have publicly disclosed the market value of the suite, similar suites at the new stadium are being sold for as much as $600,000 a year. 
 The city's acquisition of the Yankees suite had drawn scrutiny, especially after e-mail messages surfaced in November showing that aides to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had zealously pursued the luxury box, as well as free food and access to post-season games. 
 Representative Anthony D. Weiner, a Queens Democrat who publicly demanded that the city give up the suite, said, ''This is something that they never should have negotiated in the first place.'' 
 ''And,'' he added, ''it was only after the public found out about it that they did the right thing.''
 The e-mail messages revealed that after the Yankees made concessions over the size of the suite and the food, the team received an additional 250 parking spaces, as well as the rights to three new billboards along the Major Deegan Expressway and whatever revenue they generate.
 The messages contrasted with earlier public statements from Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, that the suite was not a big issue and that the city had received it simply as a matter of course. One message said that the acquisition of a suite in the Mets stadium was ''a big issue to the mayor.''
 Under the new arrangement with the city, the Yankees will be allowed to keep the parking spaces and use of the billboards, and the city will be guaranteed at least $100,000 for each baseball season, even if no one buys the suite. The deal was formalized last month in a letter from Mr. Pinsky to the Yankees president, Randy Levine, that was made public on Tuesday. A similar arrangement is being negotiated with the Mets, which also gave the city free use of a suite in its new ballpark, Citi Field.
 Aspects of the stadium negotiations slowly came to light as state and federal lawmakers began raising questions about the deals.
 The letter from Mr. Pinsky to Mr. Levine said that the main motivation for the agreement was the term limits extension approved by the City Council, which could allow Mr. Bloomberg to remain in office ''for several seasons.'' 
 It had not been clear who was to have access to the luxury suites at the two stadiums, or whether the names of the people who used them would be recorded. 
 The e-mail messages showed that, after inquiries from a reporter, Bloomberg aides said they would use the perk to reward outstanding employees, but that idea had not been mentioned in the aides' earlier correspondence.
 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, who had sought details about the deals the city was making, described the city's about-face over its use of the suites as ''a terrible embarrassment.''
 ''The taxpayers who are paying for the construction of Yankee Stadium cannot afford to buy tickets for the games, but the mayor was getting a luxury box, so he had to back off,'' he said in an interview on Tuesday. 
 ''But the reason he backed off,'' Mr. Brodsky speculated, ''is because next week, the city is going to give the Yankees more taxpayer money.''
 On Jan. 15, the Industrial Development Agency will hold a hearing over a recent request by the Yankees and the Mets for about $400 million in municipal bonds and other money to pay for the final construction stages at their stadiums. In 2006, both teams received about $1.5 billion in bonds and subsidies to help them build the ball parks.
 ''Does the Bloomberg administration really think that giving up a suite at Yankee Stadium is going to soften the blow that this project has had on city taxpayers?'' said Bettina Damiani, director of Good Jobs New York, a civic organization that has closely scrutinized projects subsidized by the city, including the new baseball stadiums.
 Andrew Brent, a spokesman for the mayor, said, ''Other cities get boxes and through our negotiations we made sure New York got no less, but we've decided to take the value in cash payments to return it to the community.'' 
 The city did not have a suite at the original Yankee Stadium. It had one at Shea Stadium and at the ballparks for the minor-league Brooklyn Cyclones and Staten Island Yankees. The new stadiums are scheduled to open in April. As part of the deal struck by the Bloomberg administrations, future mayors can choose to use the seats in the suite or continue to receive money for their use. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The stadium for the Yankees in the Bronx. Future mayors may use a suite or continue to receive money for the city instead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (77%); APPROVALS (70%); TERM LIMITS (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009



224 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 442 words

PERSON: John F. McGillicuddy 

HEADLINE: John F. McGillicuddy, 78, Banking Leader

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
John F. McGillicuddy, who assembled one of first big bank mergers in the wave of consolidation that emerged from the economic slump of the early 1990s, the one between Manufacturers Hanover and Chemical Bank, died on Sunday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 78. 
The cause was complications of prostate cancer, said a spokesman for JPMorgan Chase, which absorbed the combined company a decade later in another landmark deal.
One of the leading bankers of his generation, Mr. McGillicuddy played a pivotal role in providing financial assistance to New York City during its fiscal crisis in the 1970s. He later helped orchestrate the private-public lending partnership to bail out Chrysler in the 1980s. He also advised two presidents -- Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush -- three governors and two mayors on financial issues.
As chairman and chief executive of Manufacturers Hanover, Mr. McGillicuddy became a chief architect of banking consolidation. The 1991 deal between the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation and the Chemical Banking Corporation came after both were reeling from more than a decade of lending excesses. At the time, it was the largest bank merger in the United States and ushered in a wave of flashy deals that transformed the financial landscape.
''That was the beginning of the consolidation process that played out in the 1990s, and you are still seeing it,'' said William B. Harrison Jr., the former J.P. Morgan chairman who was one of Mr. McGillicuddy's eventual successors after Chemical Bank merged with the Chase Manhattan Corporation in 1996. Both were absorbed by J.P. Morgan in 2000.
Mr. McGillicuddy played on Princeton's undefeated football teams in 1950 and 1951 before heading to Harvard Law School. After stints in the Navy and at the law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, he joined Manufacturers Trust Company in 1958. Thirteen years later, at the age of 40, Mr. McGillicuddy was elected president, becoming one of the youngest executives ever to run a major money center bank.
After the merger, Mr. McGillicuddy retired as the chairman and chief executive of Chemical Banking in 1993, but served on a number of charitable and corporate boards, including those of the Boy Scouts of America, Kraft, United Airlines and U.S. Steel.
Mr. McGillicuddy is survived by his wife, Constance, a friend since childhood to whom he was married for over 50 years; his sister, Mary Jean O'Connell of Harrison; five children: Michael Sean McGillicuddy of Astoria; Faith Burtis Benoit of Rye; Constance Erin Mills of New Canaan, Conn.; Brian Munro McGillicuddy of Harrison; and John Walsh McGillicuddy of Harrison; and six grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John McGillicuddy in 2000.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); LAW SCHOOLS (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (82%); CHEMICAL BANK (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

RONALD REAGAN (77%); GEORGE H W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



225 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Toy Story, the Adult Version

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
LATELY, Karen Weller has been passing on Starbucks double lattes and dinners on the town. But she could not resist stopping in the other day at Dascha Boudoir Boutique in Washington, to check out the We-Vibe, a compact vibrator, all slippery surfaces and C-shaped curves. 
 Was it the plaything's novel design and faintly louche leopard-spot packaging or the shop's friendly service that induced her to part with $145 -- and the last remnants of fiscal restraint? Ms. Weller could not say, offering simply that the vibrator ''just seemed an indulgence worth the price.'' 
 Point-and-shoot cameras, CDs and fancy woven handbags may languish on store shelves. But women like Ms. Weller, a nurse from Frederick, Md., are willing to splurge, spending as much as $100 or more for a pulsing rubber duckie or bath sponge, a vibrating bullet or lipstick tube. Their fascination with such battery-operated novelties is rendering luxury sex toys a thriving sector in an otherwise listless economy. 
 ''The Dow may have taken a nose dive, but our sales have only increased,'' said Josie Morales, a partner in Their Toys, a nine-month-old Web site with offices near Palm Beach, Fla. Sales, Ms. Morales said, have increased steadily, by about 10 percent a month, since the site was introduced. ''The last time we saw a spike in our business was after 9/11,'' said Claire Cavanah, a founder of Babeland, a Web site and store in New York that sells erotic paraphernalia. Since last year, sales of gadgets priced at $80 or more have risen by 50 percent, Ms. Cavanah said. ''People are looking for stress relief and a little connection.''
 Even in a lingering recession, ''sex will always sell,'' said Analena Graham, an owner of Dascha, where cone-shaped vibrators and jewel-tone fur ticklers are showcased alongside made-to-order corsets and aromatic oils. ''You might tell yourself, 'I can do without that $400 sweater,' '' Ms. Graham went on, '' 'but I would still like to have that rechargeable vibrator.' '' 
 Also popular are pulsing cigars that turn into pendants, and pearl wrist restraints that double as necklaces. People are paying as much as $250 for similarly kinky designs, said Robyn Goodman, chief of American operations for Myla, a British-owned boutique chain and Web site. ''They don't feel like they're getting a bit of smut,'' Ms. Goodman said. ''They feel like they acquiring a very boudoir-style, high-end luxury.'' 
 Certainly luxury sex toys have attained a kind of winking acceptance, their gradual mainstreaming hardly surprising in a society that does not blush at pole-dancing workout videos. Shoppers seem to like the gadgets' streamlined shapes, their durability and their sometimes lofty pedigrees. (In the last half-dozen years, design-world luminaries like Marc Newson and Tom Dixon have lent their names and engineering skills to an assortment of sleek upscale vibrators.)
 Dr. Judy Kuriansky, the sex therapist, suggested that a heightened interest in sensually appealing devices is partly an outgrowth of a troubled economy. When money is tight, some people withdraw from sex, she said, but many others ''will do anything to increase the level of closeness and pleasure.'' 
 Sellers maintain that sex trinkets have not been affected by the recession that has hurt other segments of the multitentacled sex entertainment industry. ''Business overall is down by 5 percent or more,'' said Tony Lovett, the editor and publisher of Adult Video News, a trade publication. ''But if consumers are spending their money on anything, they are spending it on a good-looking quality product.'' 
 Just a couple of years ago, manufacturers predicted that there would be never be a market for a $100 sex toy, Mr. Lovett added. ''But they've been proven wrong.'' 
 And manufacturers today are catering aggressively to caviar tastes. Lelo (pronounced lay-low), a company based in Sweden, is reporting a run on the Gigi, a rose-colored rechargeable vibrator shaped like an overfed spoon ($109), and the Nea ($89), a palm-size massager billed as ''full of toe-curling promise,'' shaped much like a wireless computer mouse. Sales of such cleverly made items have climbed by 10 percent since June, said Shaye Saldana, a marketing manager for the company. 
 Style counts, but retailers will tell you, poker-faced, that in These Difficult Times, people buy sex toys for diversion and solace. 
 ''When your world is lurching sideways,'' Ms. Cavanah said, ''it's good to go home to a nice bed -- and a little intimacy.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLAYCLOTHES: A corset at Dascha in Washington and pearl-trimmed lingerie at Myla in New York.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, ABOVE
 DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, BELOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (74%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



226 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Health Spending Data

 BODY:
Spending on health care in the United States grew in 2007 at the lowest rate in nine years, according to government analysts -- a sliver of good news for those worried about the relentless rise in health care costs. But buried within the overall statistics was sobering evidence that health costs continue to be a pressing concern that can only be remedied through deep-seated reform in the delivery of health services. 
 The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services reported this week that total health care spending rose 6.1 percent in 2007, slightly less than the growth of 6.7 percent in 2006. Even so, it continued to expand faster than the overall economy, reaching a total of $2.2 trillion in 2007, or 16.2 percent of the gross domestic product, a record. 
 The chief reason for the overall slowdown was much slower growth in spending on prescription drugs. Retail spending on prescription drugs rose only 4.9 percent in 2007. That was the lowest rate in more than four decades, well below the 8.6 percent growth the previous year and the average of 9.4 percent a year from 2001 to 2006. 
 Government analysts attributed the deceleration to increased use of generic drugs as many brand-name blockbusters lost patent protection, as well as to slower growth in prescription drug prices and safety concerns that depressed sales of some drugs. The big uncertainty is whether the slowdown will continue or is a temporary phenomenon.
 In contrast to prescription drugs, spending for most other health care services, including payments to hospitals, clinics, nursing homes and home health services, grew at about the same rate or faster in 2007 as in 2006. Only the growth rate in spending for physician services declined, partly because Congress reduced Medicare payments to doctors for imaging services that many experts believe are widely overused.
 Given that prescription drugs make up a relatively small slice of total spending on health care -- some 10 percent -- it will be imperative to reduce the growth rates in spending on hospital care, nursing care and other medical services if health care is to become more affordable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); DRUG PRICES (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); MEDICAID (58%); HOME HEALTH CARE (52%); PATENTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



227 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Mangini Returns to His Roots as Browns Name Him Coach

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
Eric Mangini, fired by the Jets 10 days ago after a disastrous end to the season kept them from the playoffs, was not unemployed for long.
 The Cleveland Browns announced Wednesday that Mangini would become their head coach, replacing Romeo Crennel, one of his closest friends in football. Mangini is expected to be introduced at a news conference Thursday by the Browns, who became the first of six N.F.L. teams to fill its head-coaching vacancy. 
 The quick rebound for Mangini came despite speculation that he might have trouble finding work again after he was blamed for turning in his mentor, New England Coach Bill Belichick, in the videotaping scandal that became known as Spygate during the 2007 season. 
 But Randy Lerner, the Browns' owner, interviewed Mangini the day after he was fired by the Jets, and Mangini immediately became the front-runner. Among others who were interviewed for the job were Josh McDaniels, the Patriots' offensive coordinator, and Steve Spagnuolo, the Giants' defensive coordinator. 
 But Lerner was believed to prefer someone with previous head coaching experience, and Mangini, who turns 38 on Jan. 19, fit the bill. He was 23-26, including a playoff loss, in his three seasons with the Jets, and they made the playoffs in his first year with the team. 
 The Jets were 8-3 at one point this season, prompting the owner Woody Johnson to consider giving Mangini a contract extension. But they lost four of their final five games to miss the playoffs as quarterback Brett Favre struggled and Mangini made several questionable in-game decisions. Still, Mangini will bring a tough-love style of discipline to a team badly in need of some. 
 ''I am really happy for Coach Mangini,'' Jets running back Leon Washington told The Associated Press via an e-mail message. ''I learned so much from him while he had his tenure with the Jets. His hard-working, selfless and competitive approach really helped me.''
 Washington added, ''The Browns got themselves a really good coach.''
 Mangini's hiring means that Scott Pioli, New England's vice president for player personnel, who had been interviewed for the Browns' general manager job, is unlikely to join the team. Pioli and Mangini were once close friends, but their relationship has been strained in the wake of last season's spying scandal. For that position the Browns are expected to interview George Kokinis, the Baltimore Ravens' director of pro personnel and a friend of Mangini's from his earlier Browns stint. Kokinis worked for Belichick, but he remained with the franchise when it moved from Cleveland to Baltimore. 
 The move represents a return to Mangini's football roots. He began in Cleveland as a ball boy and was later an intern in the public relations department. That is where he caught the eye of the Browns' coach at the time -- Belichick. Impressed with Mangini's attention to detail, he brought Mangini into coaching. (Mangini's brother-in-law is Mark Shapiro, the general manager of the Cleveland Indians.) 
 Mangini will have a tough job ahead of him. After nearly making the playoffs in 2007, the Browns sank to 4-12 and the offense -- which had seemed so promising under quarterback Derek Anderson in 2007 -- failed to score a touchdown in the final six games. 
 Mangini inherits a difficult quarterback situation. Anderson will be back, but so will the former first-round draft pick Brady Quinn. Quinn was given the starting job when Anderson was benched during the season, but he sustained a season-ending finger injury. The quarterbacks will have talented targets, though, in tight end Kellen Winslow and receiver Braylon Edwards. 
 At least Mangini has escaped what had seemed an unwinnable situation in New York, where he was believed to be opposed to the acquisition of Favre. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: It was a tough finish for Coach Eric Mangini and quarterback Brett Favre as the Jets lost four of their last five games.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); SCANDALS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



228 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ROAD TEST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: In Search of the Just-Right Desk

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
''THE ideal recession desk,'' said Reiko Gomez, a feng shui-oriented interior designer who has lately refocused her practice on recession-proofing the home, ''would be one that makes you feel successful and abundant when you sit at it, without costing so much that you feel foolish for having spent the money.'' 
 I'd asked Ms. Gomez and others to think about the job of the domestic desk, given all that it's being called on to do. Much has been made of the growing importance of the home office in the technologically enabled American household, and these days, as more and more jobs are lost, it seems likely to become more important still -- a command center for job searches, freelance work and escapist surfing. Not that a home office is always a four-walled container for an elaborate workstation and built-ins -- more often, in fact, it's nothing more than a desk, or a desk-substitute. 
 My own ''home office'' is a dinged-up old table in the living room with a stuck drawer and warped legs that wiggle their way out of their joinery every couple of days. I have long wanted something more, well, upright, figuring that a better-quality work surface might boost the quality of what's going on up top. So I set out to try a number of new and old desks, capped the budget at $1,000 and sought professional advice along the way. 
 West Elm (112 West 18th Street; 866-937-8356; westelm.com) was my first stop. Its longtime best seller is its Parsons desk, now offered in an olive-y green (''wheatgrass'') for $299. It's a reduced version of the long white Parsons tables old-school fashion editors favored. My old boss, Carrie Donovan, the former style editor of The New York Times Magazine, had two, upon which she'd arranged shallow stacks of paper like a game of solitaire, each anchored by a weighty objet. I always loved the tidy, graphic landscapes. 
 The West Elm Parsons desk looks less sturdy than Carrie's arrangement, but at four by two feet, it is exactly the size of my lousy desk: a good thing, as it happens. I spoke to David Kirsh, a cognitive scientist at the University of California, San Diego, who studies how we customize our work spaces. In his mind, the best new desks are those that mimic the proportions of your old desk, because we tend to work the same way -- distribute the same arrangements of piles, for example -- regardless of what we're working on. These piles are entry points to thought: if a desk is too small, and the piles shrink, we may work less effectively.
 Of course, size is always an issue: I loved the look of a blackened steel correspondent's desk ($1,080) at the Atlanta-based online store, Mothology (404-351-6484; mothology.com), but it was too diminutive, at about two-and-a-half-feet long, to stay in the running. The desk tops at Muji (455 Broadway; 212-334-2002; muji.com) in stainless steel ($208.76) are reminiscent of a classic Eames desk from 1952, but its legs are 27 inches high ($139.25), just a bit too close to the knees. This exercise was turning into a Goldilocks event.
 And size is why the Go Cart desk -- just under four by two feet -- appealed at CB2 (451 Broadway; 800-606-6252; cb2.com). At $149, its cost seemed recession-appropriate. But its mobility was worrisome, perhaps not the right quality in an unstable time. ''This desk looks exactly like its name,'' Ms. Gomez, the feng shui designer, cautioned. ''It threatens to zoom off and leave you holding your laptop. The wheels give it a feeling of instability. I also don't like the thin metal legs, considered 'cutting chi' in feng shui. You don't want to swivel around in your chair and bump into those.''
 Perhaps I could work standing up, like the writer Philip Roth and Daniel Schatz, an attorney in Providence, R.I., both of whom favor hand-made desks from the Stand Up Desk Company (erols.com/standup; 301-657-3630). Mr. Roth, who has a bad back, writes on a computer and makes corrections on his printed-out work while standing up. Mr. Schatz's back is just fine, but he said he gets bored sitting all the time. I wondered about wipeouts: the desk is angled, doesn't stuff just tumble off? Turns out there's a lip and a leather inset. In any case, these desks start at $2,000, out of my price range, and anyway they have a kind of Cotton Mather vibe that's not entirely appropriate to an East Village living room.
 In the new Blu Dot store in SoHo (121 Wooster Street; 212-780-9058; bludot.com) the company's Area 51 desk in gleaming tomato red sat spotlighted on a pedestal, accessorized only by a snappy turquoise Remington typewriter. The desk was named for the ''secret'' Nevada military base beloved by U.F.O. conspiracy theorists: ''We thought it looked sort of alien-ish,'' said John Christakos, one of the principals of the Minneapolis-based company.
 Mr. Christakos was candid about his concern that Area 51 was not the most evolved expression of a modern desk. ''It's elegant, but I don't know that it's a highly programmed object,'' he said. ''I don't think it totally recognized the digital world we live in.'' But I liked its sturdy, canted legs, its under shelf (good for shoving bills and papers out of sight) and its bright blue typewriter (which is not for sale). 
 The Blu Dot desk is notable for its simplicity, its price (relatively affordable at $699) and its vibrant color. But could one work on a red desk? 
 Leatrice Eiseman, a color forecaster and author of ''Color: Messages and Meanings'' (Hand Books Press; 2006), thought so. ''I think it is a fabulous idea, especially in a home office, as it can add so much dynamism to a space by virtue of its intensity,'' she said. ''Red gets the adrenaline going -- something we all need when we are feeling a bit brain dead.'' 
 Ms. Gomez was less enthusiastic. In feng shui, red represents money and fame, she said. That's good, right? ''The fact that the desk is steel and the paint is lacquer makes it very yang,'' she continued. ''Yin is soft, warm, female in nature. Yang is hard, bright, more male. That desk is super yang. This could be a good desk if you are in a highly competitive field and want to tap your inner alpha male.'' If you're in a creative, yin-leaning field -- like writing, for example -- Ms. Gomez suggested it would need some yin-ish elements around it, like a white shag rug. 
 LAST year, Herman Miller, the company whose last hit was the '90s power seat, the Aeron chair, introduced three new desks for the home. Clean-lined and with expanses of white laminate, they are clearly connected, as Donald Albrecht, curator of art and design at the Museum of the City of New York, pointed out, to the company's modernist DNA.
 In 2000, it had brought back the Eames classic desk ($1,249), made from birch veneer and stainless steel; in 2006, it exhumed the Nelson Swag Leg ($1,799), an elegant little writing desk designed in 1958. It has corralled both into its new home collection, called the Lifework Portfolio, which includes storage and which you can find at ABC Carpet & Home (888 Broadway; 212-473-3000; abchome.com). Sliding into each is like time travel. Both desks were conceived at a moment when the modern movement hoped to revolutionize the way people live at home, and they still read as optimistic objects rather than design cliches (as nearly every Eames chair does these days). 
 George Nelson, the company's midcentury design director, and Charles and Ray Eames, were ''rethinking the domestic landscape,'' said Mr. Albrecht, as something lighter, brighter and more flexible -- more open -- than it had ever been. The new pieces aren't intended to revolutionize the way we live, but to support the revolution -- that would be the digital one -- that has already happened. The new desks have gutters at the back for cords and power strips, large surface areas for primary work (whatever is happening on the computer) and stepped areas, like an under shelf or a lip at the back for secondary work, which means places to put the mouse, the stack of bills and the cup of coffee. 
 The prettiest of the three new desks is the Airia ($2,199), designed by Kaiju Studios, in Providence, R.I. Made from walnut and white laminate, it has rounded corners and tapered, angled legs, which make it seem animate, poised for action. ''We were thinking about grand pianos,'' said Cutter Hutton, one of its three designers, recently, ''about something permanent you would have for your whole life.'' The design also acknowledges the piling styles of most people -- the Scruffies, as David Kirsh, the cognitive scientist, calls those of us whose desks are layered with clutter -- which is to say it invites piling on its raised walnut lip. 
 It was Ms. Gomez's favorite desk: the rounded corners made it inviting; the raised bit at the back -- the spot for the piles -- gained her approval for its intention to keep the main area clear and open. ''The idea is to have a big open space to work on,'' she said, ''so you can attract what you want.'' 
 But I clutched, partly because of its cost, but mainly, I suspect, because of a superstitious attachment to the familiar. Tom Krizmanic, a principal at Studios Architecture, a firm that has designed offices for Apple, Viacom, MTV and others, has observed similar behavior. He said the guys in charge often like to bring their old desks to their spanking new quarters, no matter how dinged-up or discordant with the new environment those desks might be. Mr. Krizmanic deduced that these chief executives are not just attempting to reproduce their prior organizational arrangements, to use cognitive terms; he thought there might be some totemic power to the old desks themselves. ''Lawyers I've worked with tend to keep the desk they had when they made partner, no matter what era that was,'' Mr. Krizmanic said. ''I think it's this idea of bringing things from the past into the future.'' 
 Reflecting further, Ms. Gomez wondered if the best new desk for all of us might be something that's just really sturdy. ''Something you could build a fort out of and hide underneath,'' she said, ''if times get really tough.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OTHERWORLDLY: Blu Dot's Area 51 desk was named after the Nevada military base beloved by U.F.O. conspiracy theorists -- its designers thought it looked ''alien-ish.'' A feng shui expert called its color ''super yang.''
FAMILIAR: West Elm's consistent best seller, a Parsons desk (in ''wheatgrass,'' above, $299), evokes the desks of old-school fashion editors. It would fit nicely in a living room.
DIMINISHING RETURNS: The lovely blackened- steel correspondent's desk from Mothology ($1,080) was too mingy for clutter.
TOO SHORT A STORY: An Eames-ish Muji workstation (stainless steel top, $208.76
shelving, $187.95
and stainless steel legs, $139.25) was only 27 inches high.
UNSTABLE?: CB2's Go Cart desk is recession-appropriate, price wise: $149. But its extreme mobility -- those casters -- conveyed an air of impermanence and instability.
UPRIGHT: Philip Roth, Tommy Thompson and a number of lawyers favor custommade desks from the Stand Up Desk Company (prices start at $2,000). Marty Burns, the company's owner, said half his customers report that they like to wander as they work.
ANIMATED: Herman Miller's Airia is one of three new desks offered by the company whose last domestic hit was the Aeron chair. It is well priced, given its walnut flourishes and lovely lines ($2,199).
 OPTIMISTIC: George Nelson's Swag Leg desk ($1,799), designed in 1958, is like an abstracted version of a Chippendale writing desk.(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



229 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Making a Treaty: The Senate's Role

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Restore the Senate's Treaty Power'' (Op-Ed, Jan. 5):
 Now that the Democrats are about to gain control of the presidency and Congress, John R. Bolton and John Yoo claim that only the Senate can approve a broad range of international agreements. While Article II of the Constitution gives the Senate this power, Article I grants both houses authority to approve them as well. Congress has repeatedly exercised its Article I power to approve fundamental international charters, including Nafta and the World Trade Organization.
 Mr. Bolton and Mr. Yoo are also on weak ground in suggesting that Congress has used its Article I authority only in the field of international trade. Both houses have acted under Article I to approve key national security accords, like the SALT agreement with the Russians or the recent United States-India nuclear agreement. 
 Mr. Bolton and Mr. Yoo, however, don't even mention Article I. While their claim would enable a minority of Senate Republicans to veto international agreements, it does not have a basis in either the constitutional text or precedent.
 Bruce Ackerman
 Oona Hathaway
 New Haven, Jan. 5, 2009
 The writers are professors of law at Yale and the University of California, Berkeley, respectively.
 To the Editor:
 John R. Bolton and John Yoo would have the treaty power of the Senate restored whereby new treaties would once again be enacted only by a two-thirds majority of the Senate rather than by circuitous means that bypass the necessity of an enormously difficult consensus. Fine.
 But if they really want to restore the treaty power of the Senate, let us begin by reaffirming the treaties we have already signed, which according to Article VI of the Constitution makes them the ''supreme law of the land.'' I am thinking of a long list of treaties beginning with the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which holds that ''no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.'' We could start there and work our way forward.
 John Yoo seemed to have missed a few of those Senate-approved treaties a few years ago when he wrote what are now being referred to as ''the torture memos.'' Judith McDaniel
 Tucson, Jan. 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 John R. Bolton and John Yoo's defense of treaties is intriguing, but also ironic. 
 Federal courts have consistently upheld the constitutionality and appropriateness of Congressional-executive agreements. Far from being rare and reviled, these agreements are more common than treaties, and the Senate approves hundreds each year.
 The writers defend the use of Congressional-executive agreements for trade and finance, but would not for climate change. This makes no sense. Climate pacts are, among other things, complex economic agreements. Like trade deals, they are lengthy to negotiate, hard to undo and also have successive ''rounds.''
 Because they require extensive coordination, often in advance of international negotiations, these agreements would do a better job than treaties of forging a bipartisan climate policy.
 It is ironic that these defenders of executive power are suddenly concerned about the Senate's treaty prerogatives when Barack Obama becomes president. Nigel Purvis
 William Antholis 
 Washington, Jan. 5, 2009
 The writers are, respectively, a scholar at Resources for the Future and president of Climate Advisers; and managing director of the Brookings Institution.
 To the Editor:
 It is certainly satisfying to see that John R. Bolton and John Yoo have rediscovered that ''a bulwark against presidential inclinations'' can even exist.
 These two men -- who contemptuously dismissed any restraints on executive power when they were in power, and forcefully advocated the absurd fantasy of a unitary executive -- now worry that Congress might not assert its constitutional powers against the executive branch.
 If they had shown the slightest inclination to uphold international treaties when they were in power -- the United Nations Convention Against Torture, for instance, comes to mind -- their plaintive cry would be considerably more persuasive today.
 Francois Furstenberg
 Montreal, Jan. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 During the years George W. Bush has occupied the White House, John Yoo has been the chief legal architect of an imperial presidency, subordinating the role of Congress and bypassing constitutional provisions for the balance of power.
 Now that Barack Obama is soon to take office, Mr. Yoo and John R. Bolton, the pertinacious former ambassador to the United Nations, are rushing to turn the tables and agitating to eviscerate presidential authority.
 Their motives are transparent and appalling. Martha D. Trowbridge
 New York, Jan. 5, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OTTO STEININGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); TORTURE (85%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



230 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: As Sales Picture Worsens, Intel Trims Forecast Again

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The global economic slump is hitting the computer industry faster and deeper than previously expected. 
 Intel, the world's largest maker of chips for personal computers, said on Wednesday that its sales for the fourth quarter would fall short of previously reduced forecasts by about $500 million. In mid-November, the company, which is generally seen as a bellwether for the computer industry, lowered the range of its sales forecasts for the quarter by about $1.4 billion. 
 Intel's failure to make good on forecasts it made less than two months ago underscores the speed and sharpness of the industry decline. It also illustrates the challenge that companies are facing as they try to gauge their prospects. 
 ''The magnitude and pace of the decline across the tech sector is without precedent,'' said Ashok Kumar, an analyst with Collins Stewart. Mr. Kumar said the only comparable slump occurred in the wake of the dot-com collapse early this decade, but that decline had followed a period of unparalleled growth. 
 ''The floor continues to get reset,'' Mr. Kumar said.
 In a preliminary financial report, Intel said that revenue for the quarter was about $8.2 billion, down 23 percent from the fourth quarter of 2007. In mid-November, the company reduced its fourth-quarter revenue projections to $8.7 billion to $9.3 billion, from $10.1 billion to $10.9 billion. 
 Intel's shares fell more than 6 percent Wednesday amid a broad market sell-off. Shares of Advanced Micro Devices, Intel's much smaller rival, fell 4.3 percent. 
 Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., attributed the disappointing results to weak demand for personal computers and to efforts by PC manufacturers and third-party chip distributors to reduce inventories. 
 ''The fact that they don't have any visibility is a testament to how cloudy the end demand is,'' Mr. Kumar said. ''This is global in scope. There is no geography or sector where to hide. It is across the board.''
 In light of the sales shortfall, Intel said it cut its expenses during the quarter to $2.6 billion, or $200 million lower than previously expected. Still, the company said that profits would be hit. 
 Gross profit margin, the amount Intel earns after stripping out manufacturing costs, will be at the lower end of the previous forecast, which was for 53 to 57 percent. Before it reduced forecasts in mid-November, the company expected gross margins of 57 to 61 percent. 
 The reduction in margins, however, was less than some investors feared, said Patrick Wang, an analyst with Wedbush Morgan Securities. Mr. Wang said he expected the industry slump to continue for some time. 
 ''We are well into the first quarter and we haven't seen an improvement in demand,'' he said. 
 Intel also said it would take a charge of $950 million to account for the falling value of its investment in Clearwire, which offers broadband Internet access over a wireless technology called WiMax. Intel has invested more than $1.6 billion in Clearwire. 
 Intel is scheduled to report full financial results on Jan. 15.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (97%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); COLLINS STEWART HAWKPOINT PLC (56%); WEDBUSH MORGAN SECURITIES INC (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (97%); AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



231 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: The Plain Way In the Mainstream

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
The Amish, the religious sect that has determinedly kept the modern world at bay, have been leaving a quiet life of farming for jobs in small businesses -- all the while trying to balance their own values with the culture of the marketplace. 
 ''Their whole intent is to not be caught up in the hustle and bustle of the modern world,'' said John Swaffer, advertising manager at the Keim Lumber Company, a lumber mill in Charm, Ohio. 
 The Amish move into the world of commerce has been more out of necessity than desire. Over the last 16 years, the Amish population in the United States -- mostly in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana -- has nearly doubled, to 230,000, and the decreasing availability and increasing cost of farmland has forced many of these agrarian families, especially the younger generation, to gravitate to small business as their main source of income. 
 The businesses, which favor such Amish skills as furniture-making, quilting, construction work and cooking, have been remarkably successful. Despite a lack of even a high school education (the Amish leave school after the eighth grade), hundreds of Amish entrepreneurs have built profitable businesses based on the Amish values of high quality, integrity and hard work. A 2004 Goshen College study reported that the failure rate of Amish businesses is less than 5 percent, compared with a national small-business default rate that is far higher. (According to a federal study, only two-thirds of all small-business start-ups survive the first two years and fewer than half make it to four years.) 
 And these businesses have often partnered with non-Amish entrepreneurs to sell their wares to the public. 
 Doug Winbigler of Amish Originals Furniture Company, a retailer in Westerville, Ohio, has witnessed the Amish transition since he opened in 1992. ''The change today is unbelievable,'' said Mr. Winbigler, who is not Amish but buys his furniture from 75 Amish craftsmen in northern Ohio. ''When we started, there was a hesitance because this was still a small industry and they wondered how we would treat them and represent them. They were concerned that they would be exploited. Today it has become more of a business and from a small-business angle, people are people. There are good and bad in every bunch.''
 Many Amish have dealt with the collision of modern business technology and old world values by keeping their home and work lives completely separate. Though they still drive horses and buggies, remain off the power grid and wear simple, handmade clothing, some are using computers and power tools and talking on cellphones at their jobs. 
 Mr. Swaffer, of Keim, said that several Amish employees walk around the mill with Bluetooth cellphones in their ears, but the phones are owned by Keim and the workers shut them off when they leave work. ''You won't likely see someone on a horse and buggy talking on a cellphone,'' he added. 
 Keim's 120,000-square-foot showroom uses the latest computer technology and software. Given that the company's general manager and most of its department managers are Amish, Keim had to go through a lengthy transition to get its workers to feel comfortable with the new technology. 
 ''As a company, Keim didn't want to violate the Amish principles,'' Mr. Swaffer said. ''Our owner, Bill Keim, shares the same principles, and there was a desire not to offend anyone. So it took a couple of years of education to get everybody on board.''
 Kenny Troyer, who is Old Order Amish, straddles both worlds. He is the co-founder and a board member of Amish Naturals, a start-up in Holmesville, Ohio, that makes pasta, granola and sauces from Amish recipes. His co-founder, David Skinner Sr., is not Amish. 
 Mr. Troyer grew up on a farm without electricity, automobiles, telephones or television. His home is still without these modern conveniences but he is comfortable using a phone and computer at work. He does not drive but is willing to ride in a car. He acknowledges that some Amish churches grapple with collision of the old and the new and will not allow their members to use a phone or ride in a car, even at work. ''Our community is a little more liberal,'' Mr. Troyer said. 
 In a culture that puts a premium on families staying at home and working together on the farm, young Amish are increasingly leaving to take jobs outside the home. In a community for which time stood still in the 19th century, such changes are significant.
 ''For the Amish community in North America, the move from farming to small business is really a mini-industrial revolution,'' said Donald B. Kraybill, a professor and senior fellow at the Young Center for Anabaptist and Pietist Studies at Elizabethtown College in Pennsylvania. ''This is the most important and consequential change they've experienced since they came to North America in the 18th century.''
 Professor Kraybill, who co-wrote ''Amish Enterprise: From Plow to Profits,'' estimates that more than half of Amish households now earn their primary income from small business rather than farming and in some Amish settlements (there are more than 400 different settlements in North America), the percentage of households earning their income from nonfarming commerce is over 90 percent. 
 ''It is a dramatic change,'' Professor Kraybill said. ''It impacts the family and exposes them to the concept of competition and the need to use technology to be able to compete effectively.''
 Professor Kraybill said he did not have data on how Amish businesses were faring in this current economy. He said he had heard that some had laid off employees and cut back hours but he knew of no business that had closed in the last six months. ''I doubt if many will,'' he said, because ''the church usually comes in and takes over failing businesses before they fail.''
 Like other religions, the Amish have various degrees of orthodoxy. There are many different affiliations of Amish groups, from the heavily traditional Old Order to the more progressive Amish Mennonites. Each church district has its own rules about everything from dress to use of technology. Some continue to shun extensive contact with the modern world while others are more flexible and pragmatic about embracing new technologies. Generally, each Amish community has a bishop who can decide, with the community's input, whether or not to accept changes. 
 Mr. Winbigler said he had learned in his 16 years in the Amish furniture business that doing business with the Amish is all about the relationships. Real friendships have formed, and Mr. Winbigler has been invited to Amish weddings, funerals and family gatherings. ''We've seen the intimate side of the community and it has been wonderful. But as it becomes more of a business, you lose time for some of those special things.''
 Inevitably, the shift toward business amounts to a tradeoff for the Amish. According to Professor Kraybill, the Amish are generally frugal, very astute businesspeople who can outbid non-Amish contractors because they are able to keep their costs low. Amish small-business owners do not pay Social Security taxes, for example, because of an exemption granted to them in 1965. The family cares for the elderly and the local church takes care of health care expenses. All this has enabled them to increase the wealth in their communities and sustain their preferred way of life.
 But the Amish struggle with the impact on the family. ''The family can't work together the way they did on the farm,'' Professor Kraybill said. ''If there are three teenage sons, they may each be going off to a job somewhere else. The father may be going off to work as well.'' 
 And the more they start to accept new forms of technology, the more difficult it becomes to control outside influences. ''They were able to keep the mainstream industrial revolution at bay for a century and a half,'' Professor Kraybill said. ''Now they can't help but be more exposed to the outside world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Amish employee with a customer in the Keim Lumber showroom in Charm, Ohio. Many of its managers are Amish. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. KEVIN FITZSIMONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (83%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (83%); SAW MILLS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); QUILTS & QUILTING (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); RELIGION (73%); FURNITURE STORES (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); STARTUPS (66%); RETAILERS (62%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%)

COMPANY: KEIM LUMBER CO (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423310 LUMBER, PLYWOOD, MILLWORK & WOOD PANEL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (72%); SIC5031 LUMBER, PLYWOOD, MILLWORK, & WOOD PANELS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



232 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Gentler Tax Laws Urged on Debt Default

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Congress should ease certain tax laws governing defaults on mortgages, credit cards and other consumer debt to help Americans who are struggling in the economic downturn, the watchdog agency of the Internal Revenue Service said Wednesday. 
 In its annual written report, the agency, the National Taxpayer Advocate, said that without the changes hundreds of thousands of Americans could mistakenly pay taxes this year on their canceled debts, adding to their financial malaise. 
 The I.R.S. generally treats canceled debts as subject to federal income tax unless the taxpayer is insolvent or in bankruptcy proceedings. 
 But Nina E. Olson, who leads the watchdog agency, wrote that most taxpayers eligible to exclude canceled debts from their overall taxable income were unaware that they must file an obscure, complex form with the I.R.S. 
 She called on Congress to change the law to exempt taxpayers with what she termed ''modest'' amounts of canceled debt from having to submit the form. She did not put a dollar limit on the amounts and instead asked Congress to establish a threshold. 
 Congress has already provided some debt relief to homeowners through the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act of 2007, which exempts from taxes any debts reduced or canceled during foreclosure or mortgage restructuring. But the exemption applies only if proceeds are used to acquire or improve a principal residence -- something home buyers do not always do. 
 ''It appears that most subprime borrowers use a portion of their loans for other purposes (e.g., to pay off car loans, credit card balances, student loans or medical bills),'' Ms. Olson wrote.
 She issued her report amid a flurry of unusual activity by the I.R.S. to award tax breaks to banks and financial corporations. The breaks, which give banks more leeway to use tax losses from banks they acquire, are estimated by leading tax specialists to be worth at least $110 billion.
 Ms. Olson, referring to the economic downturn, also called on the I.R.S. to ease harsh collection practices. Levies, liens and asset seizures -- all increasingly used tools of the I.R.S. -- should give way to installment agreements with taxpayers and deals known as ''offers in compromise,'' in which taxpayers offer to pay part of their tax debts.
 While I.R.S. staff members are required by law and internal procedures to consider whether collection efforts impose an economic hardship on taxpayers, they often do not do so, Ms. Olson wrote. 
 She urged the I.R.S. to protect low-income Social Security recipients from automated tax levies, which typically total 15 percent of the federal payments they receive. 
 In 2008, the I.R.S. issued levies against 1.8 million payments made to Social Security recipients. More than a fourth of those taxpayers had incomes below the poverty level, and more than a third probably would be classified as unable to pay by the I.R.S. if their cases were subject to human review. 
 Ms. Olson also called on Congress to simplify the tax code radically, an issue she identified as the leading challenge to taxpayers, and one that has appeared frequently in her annual reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



233 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: India's Enron Moment

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Claire Cain Miller contributed reporting from San Francisco.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
Ramalinga Raju was contrite, sort of. 
 In an emotionally charged four-and-a-half page letter, Mr. Raju, the chairman and co-founder of one of India's largest outsourcing companies, described to his board on Wednesday how a small discrepancy had mushroomed into one of the biggest scandals in Indian corporate history.
 ''What started as a marginal gap between actual operating profit and the one reflected in the books of accounts continued to grow over the years. It has attained unmanageable proportions as the size of company operations grew,'' he wrote. ''It was like riding a tiger, not knowing how to get off without being eaten.''
 In the end, the scandal threatened to gobble up not just Mr. Raju, who resigned, but his company, Satyam Computer Services. Far beyond Satyam, it raised fears that similar problems might lurk in other Indian companies, particularly in its vaunted outsourcing industry. 
 ''One only hopes that with the kind of scrutiny and the kind of focus this brings, everybody doesn't end up being painted with the same brush,'' said Lakshminarayana, the chief strategy officer for Wipro Technologies, which competes with Satyam. 
 The long-running fraud, which is being called India's Enron, also raised questions about the vigilance of regulators in India and the United States. 
 Satyam serves as the back office for one-third of the Fortune 500, including some of the largest banks, manufacturers, health care and media companies in the world -- handling things like computer systems and customer service for companies that include General Electric, Nestle, Ford Motor, Cisco and the United States government. 
 In some cases, Satyam even acted as clients' outsourced finance and accounting departments. 
 The fraud will make ''people even more nervous about investing'' in India and other developing markets, said Jacob Rees-Mogg, the lead manager with Somerset Capital Management, a fund that specializes in emerging markets.
 India needs foreign investment more than ever. Though it has enjoyed 9 percent growth a year recently, that is expected to slow to 7 percent, at best, as the global economy cools. Housing prices are down, the country's major stock index, the Sensex, is half what it was a year ago. And India's government has little financial leeway for giant stimulus packages like those in China and the United States.
 Outsourcing and information technology are crucial parts of the Indian economy. They provided local companies with $64 billion in revenues in 2008 and employed more than two million people directly, and millions more indirectly. 
 Mr. Raju said he had regularly falsified Satyam's accounts as the company expanded from a small family-run firm into a back office giant with 53,000 workers in 66 countries.
 Some of India's biggest conglomerates started out as family-run companies, and analysts fear the taint of corruption from Satyam -- poor governance, lax accounting controls and a lack of transparency -- could sully any of those big companies for investors and customers. 
 Relatives often hold crucial management positions and sizable stakes in the companies. Foreign investors have begun to push for more outside representation on boards, and for families to give up controlling stakes they hold.
 A huge piece of Satyam's finances was a fantasy. Of the 53.6 billion rupees in cash and bank balances the company listed as assets at the end of its second quarter, 50.4 billion rupees ($1 billion), were nonexistent, according to Mr. Raju's letter. Revenues for the quarter ended Sept. 30 were actually 20 percent lower than the 27 billion rupees reported, and the company's profit for the quarter was just 10 percent of what it reported at the time. 
 Many analysts said it was unthinkable that Mr. Raju had acted without accomplices, and regulators in India, Europe and the United States were likely to take action against Satyam for false accounting. In addition to being listed in India, its shares have traded on the New York Stock Exchange since May 2001, and on Euronext since January 2008. 
 Satyam's auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, which has audited the company since its NYSE listing, said it was ''examining'' Mr. Raju's statement and could not comment further.
 Many Satyam clients said they were studying the situation. Cisco said it did not expect any ''material impact.''
 The revelations could lead to a major shake-up in India's outsourcing industry, as a nearly cashless Satyam struggles to meet payroll and other expenses. Satyam may be shut down, sold off in its entirety or broken into pieces, they say. 
 John C. McCarthy, an analyst with Forrester Research in New York, said Satyam's clients were scrambling to find out ''whether the fraud is intermingled'' with their operations, and what their liabilities are. 
 ''This happens like clockwork in the high-tech business,'' he said. ''Every three to four years there's some financial scandal. It is because high-tech has traditionally been viewed by the financial analysts as a growth industry. There are huge pressures to maintain that growth, and not all companies have the management wherewithal to survive under those pressures.'' In the short term, many Satyam clients will migrate to competition like Infosys and TCS, said analysts with Religare Hichens Harrison. 
 News of the scandal sent the Sensex index down 7 percent on Wednesday. Shares in Satyam fell about 78 percent. Trading in Satyam on the NYSE was suspended until further notice. 
 Though Mr. Raju's announcement shocked most of the world, there had been signs for months that something was wrong at the top of Satyam. 
 The company came under close scrutiny after an October report on Fox News that it had been banned from World Bank contracts when spy software was installed on some computers. Satyam denied the accusation, but in December the World Bank confirmed it had been banned for giving improper benefits to bank staff, and for not accounting for all its fees. 
 In December, Satyam investors revolted after the company proposed buying two firms with ties to Mr. Raju's sons. 
 On Dec. 30, analysts with Forrester Research warned that corporations that relied on Satyam might ultimately need to stop doing business with the company. 
 ''Firms should take the initial steps of reviewing the exit clauses in their current Satyam contracts,'' in case management or direction of the company changes, Forrester said. 
 Four of the company's directors resigned recently and the company hired Merrill Lynch for strategic advice, a move that is generally a precursor to a sale. 
 On Wednesday, Merrill Lynch sent a letter to India's stock exchanges, saying it had terminated its relationship with Satyam after the bank ''came to understand that there were material accounting irregularities'' at the company. Merrill Lynch officials declined to comment further.
 Mr. Raju wrote in his confessional letter that neither he nor the managing director (his brother B. Rama Raju) had ''taken one rupee/dollar from the company.'' He said the board, his brother and their families had no knowledge of the situation, seeming to leave open the possibility that someone else did.
 SEBI, India's securities regulator, said it would investigate trading in Satyam's shares. Mr. Raju could face up to 10 years in jail and fines of $5 million in India for the accounting fraud. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ramalinga Raju, above, resigned from the outsourcing company he helped found, Satyam Computer Services, after an accounting scandal. Clients at the company, below, based in Hyderabad, India, included the United States government. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.B1)
 John Chambers, left, the chairman of Cisco, and Ramalinga Raju of Satyam in October 2007. Cisco was a client of Satyam's and said it did not expect any ''material impact'' from the scandal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AIJAZ RAHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (64%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); WIPRO LTD (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (57%); SATYAM COMPUTER SERVICES LTD (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); NESTLE SA (53%)

TICKER: WIT (NYSE) (58%); WIPRO (NSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); SATYAMCOMP (NSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); NESN (SWX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



234 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FRONT ROW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Of the World Unite

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
SHOPPING, these days, is a political act. If you are brave enough to buy a $2,000 Prada handbag, you might rationalize that you are helping to stimulate the economy. Solidarity, people! 
 Saks Fifth Avenue, which has surely felt the recession's sting, is taking just such a fist-raising stand with its spring marketing. The campaign is inspired by the bold graphic designs and propaganda spirit of Constructivist art -- although it is intended to be tongue-in-cheek. 
 The store hired Shepard Fairey, the artist who created the stylized Hope poster of Barack Obama that became one of the most highly visible, though unofficial, images of the presidential campaign, to design its catalog covers and shopping bags. They bear a rather unsubtle allusion to advertisements made in the 1920s for state-run department stores in the Soviet Union.
 ''What we do every day, really, is propaganda,'' said Terron E. Schaefer, the senior vice president for marketing at Saks. 
 So why not go whole hog?
 The Saks slogan, ''Want It!'' is printed in lettering similar to the graphic designs of Rodchenko, the Russian graphic designer who was one of the founders of Constructivism. The images, largely realized by Cleon Peterson of Studio Number One, Mr. Fairey's design company in Los Angeles, depict the season's trends in black-and-white images with geometric slashes of red, some of them shown on models posing as if they are champions of workers' rights. An ad for a slouchy bag, for example, tells shoppers to ''Arm Yourself,'' while a style of relaxed, cropped shorts are described as ''Brave Pants.''
 Asked if his work could be misunderstood as some sinister form of retail indoctrination, Mr. Fairey noted that he was also looking at agitprop posters made for the Works Progress Administration in the 1940s, to lift morale.
 ''Some people might think it could be making fun of what's going on right now,'' Mr. Fairey said. ''But I think most people are sophisticated enough to realize it's a way of grabbing attention. It's commerce. I don't think there is really any political statement embedded in this.''
 Given the pricey goods Saks is selling, it's not likely anyone would accuse the store of being socialist.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GRAPHIC APPEAL: Saks Fifth Avenue has turned to Shepard Fairey, whose work captures the bold style employed by Rodchenko in the 1920s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); RETAILERS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



235 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Mounting Signs of a Rapid Slowdown

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
More than a year after the United States entered a recession, Europe is now catching up quickly as the pain of job losses and shrinking orders spreads. 
 Data released Wednesday showed that the monthly unemployment rate in Germany rose in December for the first time in three years -- by 18,000, to 7.6 percent.
 Throughout most of 2008, German strength ensured that unemployment held steady at the European level despite sharp rises in Spain and Ireland, two countries hit hard by the housing crisis. But it appears that Germany, too, is suffering. 
 ''Europe is now rushing rapidly into a recession, faster than the United States,'' said Bart van Ark, chief economist of the Conference Board, a nonprofit group that assesses business trends.
 Job creation had been a source of considerable comfort in recent years, when European economies seemed to break out of their old patterns.
 Now, a potent mix of negative business sentiment, a hard-hit banking system and a global downturn is working its way through Europe with a vengeance. Above all, Europe is losing customers for the high-end value-added products that are its specialty.
 Jobless data for Europe, scheduled for release on Thursday, was expected to show an increase to 7.8 percent for November, from 7.7 percent in October. A year earlier, the rate was at 7.2 percent -- a record low. Still, Europe is likely to experience a less severe contraction than that in the United States, Mr. van Ark said. The board is predicting the American economy will shrink by 1.5 percent in 2009, about twice the rate expected among the 16 nations that use the euro as their currency.
 Dantherm, for instance, a Danish maker of air-purification equipment that had $397 million in revenue in 2007, has had a sharp drop in its sales in Western Europe. It has idled workers at a plant in France. Now another plant in Germany, which supplies mainly the once-vibrant markets eastward toward Russia, is likely to have a decline in shipments.
 ''The only thing we can say for sure is that everything is unsure,'' said Dantherm's chief executive, Poul Arne Jensen. 
 The role of government in the economy, combined with greater barriers to laying off employees, has meant that the masses have lost their jobs more slowly.
 A mixture of temporary work, programs that allow workers to draw on previously worked hours to add to paychecks, and government subsidies have helped limit huge layoffs thus far. But even those protections have their breaking points.
 The turmoil in the markets in the last three months has chilled business activity from Finland to Portugal. By contrast, the recession in the United States began in December 2007.
 ''The cycles are never exactly contemporaneous and typically shifted one way or another by 6 to 12 months,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund. ''There is a very good chance things will get worse in Europe before they get better.''
 The European Central Bank has complained that disputes over European Union rules on subsidies, combined with other restrictions on the bank rescues, have damaged their value at a time when credit is urgently needed.
 The central bank has lowered its benchmark rate to 2.5 percent, from 4.25 percent since October, and most economists say that they expect another cut next week. But reducing the cost of credit is proving increasingly futile in increasing the flow. Major indicators of credit scarcity, notably the difference between overnight lending rates and longer maturities, have been virtually unchanged.
 ''The problem is becoming less rates but credit supply,'' said Puneet Sharma, head of European investment-grade credit strategy at Barclays Capital in London. ''There is a cash shortage in Europe.''
 No one feels the effects of reluctant bankers more acutely than European makers of equipment used by other manufacturers.
 Shortly before Christmas, ASML Holding, a Dutch company that makes equipment that etches circuits onto silicon chips, said it would cut 1,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its global work force, including those in Europe. Customers for its machines -- which include giants like Intel and Samsung and many specialized companies in eastern Germany and France -- cannot get loans.
 ''Because the systems that we sell are so expensive -- a typical one is 30 million euros, and you need a few of them -- you need financing,'' said Lucas van Grinsven, a spokesman for ASML, referring to a $41 million product.
 Eventually, though, Mr. van Grinsven said, the problem would also be falling consumer demand. Computer chips go into all manner of devices -- mobile phones, computers, cars -- all products that consumers are cutting back on.
 Thomas Kluber has seen firsthand how the downturn is leeching from business spending into consumer demand. Walden, which he owns, is a combination small bar and cafe in the heart of Frankfurt. Though walk-in customers did not pull back sharply, corporate holiday parties were few this year, he said, as the financial sector braced for retrenchment.
 ''I had lots of inquiries from insurers and banks who canceled at the last minute,'' Mr. Kluber said. ''At least 20 percent of the business disappeared.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Employees at a Ford factory in Europe returned to work after being off for 10 weeks because of deterioration in auto sales. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN-PIERRE MULLER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); SHIPMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); DENMARK (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



236 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America Raises $2.8 Billion

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The Bank of America raised $2.83 billion from selling part of its holding in China Construction Bank, and Hong Kong's richest tycoon followed by selling a $500 million stake in its rival, Bank of China. 
 Shares in China's big banks skidded on Wednesday after Bank of America's early-morning sale, with investors expecting further sell-downs in the face of slowing earnings growth at mainland lenders and the lapse of lock-up provisions on stake holdings.
 China's three largest banks attracted big strategic investments from western financial giants at the time of their initial offerings. Some investors, including Royal Bank of Scotland, are under pressure to sell as the global financial crisis ravages the banking industry.
 Bank of America sold more than 5.62 billion Construction Bank shares at 3.92 Hong Kong dollars each, according to a term sheet obtained by Reuters, in a deal that had been widely anticipated by the market.
 Bank of America realizes a profit of about $1.13 billion on the stake sale, based on Construction Bank's initial offering price. It sold the stake at a 12 percent discount to the stock's Tuesday close.
 ''The news has been expected but investors will still take it hard because BoA will most definitely sell more,'' said Francis Lun, general manager with Fulbright Securities in Hong Kong. ''They need the money. '' 
 The stake sold represents about 2.5 percent in Construction Bank, and will leave Bank of America with a 16.6 percent holding in the Beijing-controlled lender.
 Bank of America bought its initial stake in Construction Bank ahead of the mainland lender's 2005 offering and built its holding up to just over 19 percent.
 Later Wednesday, an investor identified as a foundation controlled by the tycoon Li Ka-shing sold Bank of China shares worth up to $524 million.
 Mr. Li, who is chairman of Hutchison Whampoa and the property developer Cheung Kong (Holdings), was selling two billion shares, according to a term sheet.
 The shares were being sold at a discount of 5 to 7.5 percent to Wednesday closing price in Hong Kong.
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Li was not immediately available to comment.
 In another Chinese sell-down by a western bank, Switzerland's embattled UBS recently sold its holding in Bank of China.
 Citigroup said Bank of China might see further stake sales this year by Royal Bank of Scotland, which holds 8.3 percent, and Singapore's state investment agency, Temasek Holdings, which owns 4.1 percent. Lockups on those stakes lapsed last month, it said.
 Industrial and Commercial Bank of China could also come under sale pressure this year.
 Goldman Sachs, Allianz and American Express Company own a combined 7.3 percent in Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, with lockups that will lapse in April and October, Citigroup said in a note.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (91%); INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (86%); BANK OF CHINA LTD (85%); BOC HONG KONG (HOLDINGS) LTD (85%); CHEUNG KONG (HOLDINGS) LTD (74%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (71%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (60%); HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD (59%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); ALLIANZ SE (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); 0939 (HKSE) (91%); 1398 (HKSE) (86%); 3988 (HKSE) (85%); 2388 (HKSE) (85%); 0001 (HKSE) (74%); RBS (NYSE) (71%); RBS (LSE) (71%); RBS (AMS) (71%); AXP (NYSE) (60%); 0013 (HKSE) (59%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); ALV (FRA) (56%); ALV (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (74%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (60%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (60%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (59%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (59%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (59%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (69%); SWITZERLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



237 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Cuban Tells Why He Is No Longer In Cubs' Lineup

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
One of the three semifinalists vying to buy the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field may be separated from the pack by the Tribune Company by next week to enter into exclusive negotiations -- meaning Tribune will try to goose that bid higher.
 Talking to one suitor will move the sale closer to its conclusion so that Tribune -- heavily in debt, in bankruptcy and needing cash -- can collect $1 billion or so. 
 But whenever a winner is declared, it is unlikely the losers will say much. They often bow out with perfunctory farewells if they say anything; only rarely does someone squawk loudly, as Charles F. Dolan, the chairman of Cablevision, did when he lost out on buying the Boston Red Sox.
 But as the bidders on the Cubs -- Thomas Ricketts, Hersch Klaff and the team of Marc Utay and Leo J. Hindery Jr. -- await anointment to go solo with Tribune, Mark Cuban, out of the bidding for a few months, has blogged his insider's view.
 ''I never thought it conceivable that it would be hard to spend a billion dollars on a sports team,'' he wrote Tuesday on blogmaverick.com. ''Add me to the list of people who never want to participate in this type of sales process again. I tried every trick I knew to try to get them to commit to me.''
 That tells me Tribune did not like what he offered, in dollars, terms or structure, before the economic crisis hit. Tribune and its investment banker, JPMorgan Chase, were not quick about the sale process when their assets were valued at their peak. Now, with Tribune in distress, the company must sell in the hope that competition keeps the price from crashing. It's highly possible that Cuban's frustrations are the same as everyone else's.
 The credit crunch, which doesn't make raising $1 billion easy, altered Cuban's financing plans. He wrote that ''what seemed like a sane business decision didn't seem so sane any longer.'' Bankers were offering him only short-term loans, which troubled him because ''it no longer seemed like a safe bet that I could refinance in a few years.'' 
 Jokingly, he wrote, ''I thought about writing to Congress to get a bailout.''
 Another option was to add investors and pay cash. But if he did, he wrote, ''I was not going to bid anywhere near one billion dollars for the assets.'' He could get a better return on distressed assets that were ''rolling in the door'' than he could on the Cubs.
 He had no idea what the sliding economy would do to the cash flow of the Cubs' assets (the team, Wrigley Field and 25 percent of Comcast SportsNet Chicago). 
 ''If the economy had a significant impact on future revenues,'' he wrote, ''it would also impact how much I could invest in players. The absolute last position I wanted to be in was paying so much for the team, that if revenues fell off, I couldn't play to win.''
 The eventual buyer will be faced with those same concerns in an economy that will test the willingness of fans to pack Wrigley, no matter how friendly or historic it is. Some people, maybe many people, who went to games regularly now cannot afford to.
 The suitors know that whoever is crowned the winner by Tribune might not be the winner at all. The Cubs' assets are not part of Tribune's bankruptcy filing, but their sale must be approved by the judge, who could act unilaterally or at the request of creditors who believe a higher price could be achieved. 
 ''The judge tries to balance making sure there's been a fair process and maximizing the recoveries for the estate,'' said Peter S. Kaufman, president and head of the restructuring and distressed mortgage and assets practice for Gordian Group LLC, an investment bank. ''If the process has been fair, judges are unlikely to derail it. But if someone comes in at the 11th hour who is credible, and has a materially higher bid, there are circumstances where a judge has held up the closing of a transaction he was about to bless.''
 In a small way, Cuban is hoping Tribune may come back to him. He wrote on his blog: ''I knew that if they got the money they wanted for the team, well, my bid was not going to be high enough anyway. If they didn't, or the other bidders couldn't come up with their money, they would come back to me.''
 A winner on the rebound? Not likely.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Cuban said the credit crunch altered his financing plans to support bidding for the Cubs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD CARSON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); SALES & SELLING (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (90%); CHARLES DOLAN (54%); JAMES L DOLAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



238 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Advanced Placement Italian Test to End

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
The College Board will drop its Advanced Placement Italian exam at the end of this academic year, just four years after it began offering it.
 Last April, the College Board announced plans to end four Advanced Placement exams that were not attracting enough students -- Italian, Latin literature, French literature and computer science AB -- after May 2009. But it held out hope of keeping the Italian program alive for another year if supporters could raise $1.5 million. 
 So the same supporters who backed the program initially, including the family of Mario M. Cuomo, the former New York governor, and several Italian-American groups, created a foundation that raised more than $650,000 in pledges and commitments. 
 Those pledges, however, were contingent on a contribution from the Italian government, which paid $300,000 to help start the A.P. program. But this time, Italy did not contribute. 
 ''A heroic effort was made by the Italian Language Foundation, led largely by its leaders, Dr. Margaret Cuomo and Louis Tallarini,'' Gaston Caperton, president of the College Board, said in a statement. ''However, the valiant effort to raise the needed funds was confounded by the unforeseen challenge of the current economic situation.''
 The Advanced Placement program allows high school students to take college-level courses and, if they do well on the exams given each year in May, to receive college credit for their work. Students took more than 2.6 million exams in 37 subjects last year. 
 The French, Latin and computer exams to be dropped are the second Advanced Placement programs within their disciplines. The original exams in those fields will continue.
 While hundreds of thousands of high school students take part in the Advanced Placement United States history and English literature programs, very few participate in the programs being dropped. Last May, 1,930 took the Italian test, 3,614 took Latin literature, 1,946 took French literature and 4,995 took computer science AB. 
 The College Board said in a letter to educators in September that the costs of maintaining such small programs were simply too high. ''The losses being incurred for the discontinued courses have exceeded a prudent threshold for a not-for-profit organization,'' the board said. 
 Trevor Packer, executive director of the Advanced Placement program, said there were no plans to eliminate any other A.P. programs, even though the Chinese and Japanese exams offered for the first time in 2007 also have few takers -- 4,311 and 1,538. 
 Those exams, Mr. Packer said, were devised to be much less costly because they are given via computer, unlike the paper-and-pencil Italian exam. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); LITERATURE (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ITALY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



239 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Prostitutes Say South Korea and U.S. Enabled Sex Trade Near Bases

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
South Korea has railed for years against the Japanese government's waffling over how much responsibility it bears for one of the ugliest chapters in its wartime history: the enslavement of women from Korea and elsewhere to work in brothels serving Japan's imperial army. 
 Now, a group of former prostitutes in South Korea have accused some of their country's former leaders of a different kind of abuse: encouraging them to have sex with the American soldiers who protected South Korea from North Korea. They also accuse past South Korean governments, and the United States military, of taking a direct hand in the sex trade from the 1960s through the 1980s, working together to build a testing and treatment system to ensure that prostitutes were disease-free for American troops.
 While the women have made no claims that they were coerced into prostitution by South Korean or American officials during those years, they accuse successive Korean governments of hypocrisy in calling for reparations from Japan while refusing to take a hard look at South Korea's own history. 
 ''Our government was one big pimp for the U.S. military,'' one of the women, Kim Ae-ran, 58, said in a recent interview. 
 Scholars on the issue say that the South Korean government was motivated in part by fears that the American military would leave, and that it wanted to do whatever it could to prevent that. 
 But the women suggest that the government also viewed them as commodities to be used to shore up the country's struggling economy in the decades after the Korean War. They say the government not only sponsored classes for them in basic English and etiquette -- meant to help them sell themselves more effectively -- but also sent bureaucrats to praise them for earning dollars when South Korea was desperate for foreign currency.
 ''They urged us to sell as much as possible to the G.I.'s, praising us as 'dollar-earning patriots,' '' Ms. Kim said. 
 The United States military, the scholars say, became involved in attempts to regulate the trade in so-called camp towns surrounding the bases because of worries about sexually transmitted diseases.
 In one of the most incendiary claims, some women say that the American military police and South Korean officials regularly raided clubs from the 1960s through the 1980s looking for women who were thought to be spreading the diseases. They picked out the women using the number tags the women say the brothels forced them to wear so the soldiers could more easily identify their sex partners. 
 The Korean police would then detain the prostitutes who were thought to be ill, the women said, locking them up under guard in so-called monkey houses, where the windows had bars. There, the prostitutes were forced to take medications until they were well. 
 The women, who are seeking compensation and an apology, have compared themselves to the so-called comfort women who have won widespread public sympathy for being forced into prostitution by the Japanese during World War II. Whether prostitutes by choice, need or coercion, the women say, they were all victims of government policies. 
 ''If the question is, was there active government complicity, support of such camp town prostitution, yes, by both the Korean governments and the U.S. military,'' said Katharine H. S. Moon, a scholar who wrote about the women in her 1997 book, ''Sex Among Allies.'' 
 The South Korean Ministry of Gender Equality, which handles women's issues, declined to comment on the former prostitutes' accusations. So did the American military command in Seoul, which responded with a general statement saying that the military ''does not condone or support the illegal activities of human trafficking and prostitution.'' 
 The New York Times interviewed eight women who worked in brothels near American bases, and it reviewed South Korean and American documents. The documents do provide some support for many of the women's claims, though most are snapshots in time. The women maintain that the practices occurred over decades. 
 In some sense, the women's allegations are not surprising. It has been clear for decades that South Korea and the United States military tolerated prostitution near bases, even though selling sex is illegal in South Korea. Bars and brothels have long lined the streets of the neighborhoods surrounding American bases in South Korea, as is the case in the areas around military bases around the world. 
 But the women say few of their fellow citizens know how deeply their government was involved in the trade in the camp towns.
 The women received some support for their claims in 2006, from a former government official. In a television interview, the official, Kim Kee-joe, who was identified as having been a high-level liaison to the United States military, said, ''Although we did not actively urge them to engage in prostitution, we, especially those from the county offices, did often tell them that it was not something bad for the country either.''
 Transcripts of parliamentary hearings also suggest that at least some South Korean leaders viewed prostitution as something of a necessity. In one exchange in 1960, two lawmakers urged the government to train a supply of prostitutes to meet what one called the ''natural needs'' of allied soldiers and prevent them from spending their dollars in Japan instead of South Korea. The deputy home minister at the time, Lee Sung-woo, replied that the government had made some improvements in the ''supply of prostitutes'' and the ''recreational system'' for American troops.
 Both Mr. Kim and Ms. Moon back the women's assertions that the control of venereal disease was a driving factor for the two governments. They say the governments' coordination became especially pronounced as Korean fears about an American pullout increased after President Richard M. Nixon announced plans in 1969 to reduce the number of American troops in South Korea.
 ''The idea was to create an environment where the guests were treated well in the camp towns to discourage them from leaving,'' Mr. Kim said in the television interview.
 Ms. Moon, a Wellesley College professor, said that the minutes of meetings between American military officials and Korean bureaucrats in the 1970s showed the lengths the two countries went to prevent epidemics. The minutes included recommendations to ''isolate'' women who were sick and ensure that they received treatment, government efforts to register prostitutes and require them to carry medical certification and a 1976 report about joint raids to apprehend prostitutes who were unregistered or failed to attend medical checkups.
 These days, camp towns still exist, but as the Korean economy took off, women from the Philippines began replacing them. 
 Many former prostitutes live in the camp towns, isolated from mainstream society, which shuns them. Most are poor. Some are haunted by the memories of the mixed-race children they put up for adoption overseas.
 Jeon, 71, who agreed to talk only if she was identified by just her surname, said she was an 18-year-old war orphan in 1956 when hunger drove her to Dongduchon, a camp town near the border with North Korea. She had a son in the 1960s, but she became convinced that he would have a better future in the United States and gave him up for adoption when he was 13. 
 About 10 years ago, her son, now an American soldier, returned to visit. She told him to forget her. 
 ''I failed as a mother,'' said Ms. Jeon, who lives on welfare checks and the little cash she earns selling items she picks from other people's trash. ''I have no right to depend on him now.'' 
 ''The more I think about my life, the more I think women like me were the biggest sacrifice for my country's alliance with the Americans,'' she said. ''Looking back, I think my body was not mine, but the government's and the U.S. military's.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bae worked as a prostitute near an American military base in South Korea, an activity that American and Korean authorities permitted, some Koreans say.
 Bae at 29. Now 80, she lives on welfare and uses an oxygen machine.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEAN CHUNG FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (91%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); KOREAN WAR (78%); WOMEN (77%); ARMIES (77%); CURRENCIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (59%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



240 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Survival Lesson in Pittsburgh: Shedding an Industrial Past

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH 

 BODY:
This is what life in one American city looks like after an industrial collapse:
 Unemployment is 5.5 percent, far below the national average. While housing prices sank nearly everywhere in the last year, they rose here. Wages are also up. Foreclosures are comparatively uncommon.
 A generation ago, the steel industry that built Pittsburgh and still dominated its economy entered its death throes. In the early 1980s, the city was being talked about the way Detroit is now. Its very survival was in question.
 Deindustrialization in Pittsburgh was a protracted and painful experience. Yet it set the stage for an economy that is the envy of many recession-plagued communities, particularly those where the automobile industry is struggling for its life.
 ''If people are looking for hope, it's here,'' said Sabina Deitrick, an urban studies expert at the University of Pittsburgh. ''You can have a decent economy over a long period of restructuring.'' 
 Pittsburgh's transition has been proceeding for decades in fits and starts, benefiting some areas much more than others. A development plan begun in the 1980s successfully used the local universities to pour state funds into technology research. 
 Entrepreneurship bloomed in computer software and biotechnology. Two of the biggest sectors are education and health care, among the most resistant to downturns. Prominent companies are doing well. Westinghouse Electric, a builder of nuclear reactors, expects to hire 350 new employees a year for the foreseeable future. And commercial construction, plunging in most places, is still thriving partly because of big projects like a casino and an arena for the Penguins hockey team.
 The question is whether Pittsburgh can serve as a model for Detroit and other cities in the industrial Midwest as they grapple with large-scale cutbacks in the automotive industry. Even with the federal government's $17.4 billion bailout, General Motors, Chrysler and Ford are expected to continue shrinking.
 The unemployment rate in Michigan, already close to 10 percent, will undoubtedly rise further. State and federal officials will have to increase the number of retraining programs, and develop a postindustrial policy that ensures there is something for the graduates to do. That will take patience and money, two commodities in short supply. 
 About 4 percent of Michigan workers make cars and parts, with many more employed in related fields. Few regions are as dependent on a single heavy industry. But the history of Pittsburgh, where steel workers fell from as much as 10 percent of the work force in 1980 to less than 1 percent today, offers proof that revitalization is possible. 
 One reason Pittsburgh looks better in the bust is because it never had a real estate boom. That might have been a cause for complaint among homeowners who missed out on soaring values in California and Florida in the first half of the decade, but these days they can only be grateful.
 Housing prices in Pittsburgh were up 2.2 percent for the year ending September 2008 despite a slight drop in the latest quarter, according to the government's House Price Index. That compares with a 4 percent drop for the United States as a whole.
 The big local bank, PNC, was resolutely unadventurous during the housing frenzy. It just acquired Cleveland-based National City, which made too many bad loans. That will solidify Pittsburgh's standing as one of the country's major banking centers.
 Yet the semisweet spot that Pittsburgh finds itself in was never inevitable. As recently as 2000, it had a higher unemployment rate than Detroit or Cleveland. Just as Michigan has traditionally put all its chips on the auto industry, it took Pittsburgh a long time to come to terms with the end of the steel era.
 ''The emphasis was on fighting the presumed causes of the decline by getting rid of low-cost foreign imports or providing more subsidies,'' said Harold D. Miller, president of Future Strategies, a consultancy. ''The assumption was that steel will come back and we'll go back to the way we were.''
 There were moments when the rebirth of steel seemed plausible, if not imminent. Ryan Campbell grew up in the shadow of the great Homestead Works, now the site of a vibrant shopping mall. When he graduated from college in 2001, steel drew him in.
 Mr. Campbell took a job at a small specialty mill as a foreman. He loved it -- the huge cranes delicately pouring pots of molten fire, the camaraderie on the production line, the proud heritage of making something tangible -- but soon realized he could never make a career there.
 Overburdened with retiree pension and health care costs, competing against both imports and modern minimills, the steel industry was convulsing again. An initial round of layoffs at Mr. Campbell's mill was followed by a second, then a third. ''I need to go paddle on a different boat,'' Mr. Campbell told himself.
 He posted a resume online and was sought out by recruiters for Medrad Inc., a health care company founded by an emergency room doctor in 1964 in Pittsburgh. Now a unit of the German pharmaceutical giant Bayer, Medrad last year opened its fourth facility in the area, this one for making disposable syringes. Mr. Campbell, 31, is a production manager. 
 Career transitions could hardly be more painless, but Mr. Campbell has sympathy for his former colleagues, many of whom had a much more difficult time. 
 Some would be laid off, work in a grocery store or wait tables, and then go back when business picked up a bit, Mr. Campbell said. It was a rational thing to do: The mill would pay perhaps $17 an hour, much more than a restaurant or store.
 Mark Conkle considers himself a retraining success, too, but his experience demonstrates how difficult it will be for many laid-off autoworkers to match their factory income.
 Mr. Conkle worked for 15 years for Ross Mould Inc. in Washington, southwest of Pittsburgh, as a unionized production machinist. He was making $23 an hour when he was laid off in 2005.
 Some laid-off colleagues went directly to machine shops for $10 or $11 an hour. Mr. Conkle took the harder route of retraining, enrolling in a 16-month technical program. His unemployment benefits and his wife Amanda's job as a postal carrier carried the family through.
 Last February, Mr. Conkle, 40, was hired as a maintenance specialist at the Monongahela Valley Hospital, a 226-bed hospital that is the third-largest employer in Washington County and is still growing. He makes $15 an hour, and in this economy is happy to have it. ''You've got to take a job, no matter what it's paying,'' he said. ''Companies know it.''
 The forces buffeting the larger economy are beginning to touch Pittsburgh. Sony recently announced the closing of its Westmoreland County plant, its last television manufacturing factory in the United States. The plant had already been cut to 560 workers from 3,000 a few years ago. And Alcoa, which employs more than 1,500 people here, said Tuesday it was cutting 13 percent of its worldwide staff. 
 Even health care is affected. The Medrad plant has a hiring ''pause.'' Built for 500 workers, it has only about 95. 
 ''Folks who are laid off should be given a chance to remake their lives,'' said Barney Oursler, co-director of the Mon Valley Unemployed Committee. But ''there are never enough good jobs.''
 Particularly now. Pittsburgh had the luxury of reshaping itself while the rest of the United States economy was relatively strong. Unemployed steel workers could leave for the booming Sun Belt, helping the city and region shrink to a more manageable size. The metropolitan area of about2.4 million has 200,000 fewer residents than in 1980. 
 With the entire country reeling, that escape valve is closed. A few weeks ago, Bill Shever was laid off from his job in a metal sidings plant in Valencia, north of Pittsburgh. He would relocate, but has not heard of any place where skilled labor is in demand. 
 ''Times are tough all over,'' said Mr. Shever, 47. ''I might as well stick it out here.'' He said two specialty steel companies seemed to be holding their own, and he would try them first.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Smokestacks, now ornamental, mark the remains of the Homestead Works steel mill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
United States Steel's Homestead Works outside Pittsburgh in 1973. In 1980, one out of 10 area workers was in the steel industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PITTSBURGH POST GAZETTE)
 Ryan Campbell, left, quit his job at a steel mill, and Mark Conkle was laid off. Both now work in the medical industry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISA KYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITIES (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



241 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: As Consumers Try to Cut Back, Tropicana Promotes Quality and Value

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
HOW much does Tropicana want to become America's main squeeze? Enough to undertake a major makeover of its advertising, marketing and packaging, centered on ''squeeze'' as a noun as well as a verb.
 A multimedia campaign, getting under way this week, is the first for the Tropicana juice brand from its new agency, the Arnell Group in New York, part of the Omnicom Group. The campaign carries the typographically challenging theme ''squeeze it's a natural,'' which is intended to evoke the way oranges are turned into Tropicana along with the warm way in which the company wants consumers to embrace the brand.
 The campaign has a budget estimated at more than $35 million, which executives at Tropicana describe as significantly larger than in recent years. 
 One noticeable change is the disappearance of the longtime Tropicana symbol, a straw stuck in an orange that stood for the juice's fresh taste. The device is being replaced by a tall glass filled with Tropicana and an orange-colored twist cap atop large cartons that is shaped like a halved orange.
 The campaign is among several efforts by PepsiCo to stimulate sales for its brands with worldwide retail sales of $1 billion or more. In addition to Tropicana, products like Diet Pepsi, Gatorade, Mountain Dew, Pepsi-Cola and Quaker are benefiting from some or all of the following: new campaigns, new agencies, new varieties, new logos, new packaging.
 Those initiatives are indicative of the renewed attention that prosaic food brands are getting as the recession continues. To save money, consumers are eating more meals at home and fewer meals at restaurants. Though marketers typically cut back during economic downturns, purveyors of packaged foods like PepsiCo, Campbell Soup, ConAgra, General Mills, Heinz and Kellogg are staying the course or even trying to capitalize on conditions and raise the profiles of their familiar brands.
 ''We're not explicitly talking about the price of a glass of orange juice, but it's a pretty good value equation,'' said Neil Campbell, president at Tropicana North America in Chicago, part of the PepsiCo Americas Beverages division of PepsiCo.
 ''For less than 50 cents, you can get an eight-ounce glass and start your day with two servings of fruit,'' he added.
 Still, because Tropicana is not made from concentrate, it costs more than rivals like Minute Maid, sold by a unit of the Coca-Cola Company. Indeed, the full brand name is Tropicana Pure Premium -- and premium-price products, even in the food field, have been suffering as shoppers trade down to lower-priced alternatives.
 Such sales losses are ''not huge'' so far, Mr. Campbell said, but they are ''something you've always got to watch for'' in tough times.
 A primary purpose of the campaign, he added, is ''to make sure that doesn't become a phenomenon.''
 The campaign represents ''the opportunity to re-present Tropicana in a big way,'' Mr. Campbell said, ''and remind people of the goodness of orange juice.''
 ''We're looking to rejuvenate the category,'' he added, which would help Tropicana as ''the category leader.'' Typically, about 40 percent of all the orange juice sold each year is Tropicana.
 The new ads and new packaging could also help the brand counter the competition from newer beverages like energy drinks and flavored waters -- some of them sold by PepsiCo -- as well as criticism about the sugar content of orange juice. A 14-ounce carton of Tropicana has 39 grams of sugar; a 20-ounce bottle of Pepsi-Cola has 28 grams.
 ''The whole idea of 'squeeze,' '' Mr. Campbell said, is to play up ''the functional benefit'' of orange juice in providing fruit for people's daily diets ''and the emotional connection people have with Tropicana.''
 That accounts for the use of ''squeeze'' because of its double meaning.
 Squeeze ''is the process by which we get our product and the hug, 'my favorite,' 'my squeeze,' '' said Peter Arnell, chairman and chief creative officer at Arnell, which redesigned the Tropicana packaging and created the campaign.
 ''There was this notion of owning a simple word that would communicate the love, the care, in this 'Obama moment' we're all going through,'' he added.
 Adding the phrase ''it's a natural'' is intended to address the concerns over the sugar content, Mr. Arnell said, as is the focus on the new packaging of the phrase ''100% orange pure & natural'' 
 Ads that appeared in Sunday newspapers described the new cartons as a ''fresh new look for your morning 100 percent orange'' and played up the ''two servings of fruit in every glass.'' Plans call for television commercials to be added to the campaign.
 Print and online ads, posters and signs in stores present images of attractive models -- men, women, children -- as singles and pairs or in familylike groups. They are a long way from the onetime Tropicana brand mascot, Tropic-Ana, a cartoon of a grinning girl in a grass skirt. The models' poses and the casual clothes would not seem out of place in ads previously created by Mr. Arnell for the DKNY apparel brand.
 Mr. Arnell said he hoped the new orange-colored, orange-shaped caps on the large Tropicana cartons would become as symbolic of the brand as the white, swirl-shaped caps on cans of Reddi-wip topping are for that product.
 The Arnell Group has also designed new logos for PepsiCo soft drinks like Diet Pepsi, Diet Pepsi Max, Mountain Dew and Pepsi-Cola. The agency was named to create campaigns for Tropicana in April, replacing another Omnicom agency, Element 79 Partners in Chicago. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column last Thursday, about a new campaign for Tropicana orange juice, misstated the amount of sugar in a 20-ounce bottle of Pepsi-Cola, which was compared to the amount of sugar in a 14-ounce carton of Tropicana. There are 70 grams of sugar in 20 ounces of Pepsi-Cola, not 28 grams. (That is the amount in 8 ounces of the soda, which the bottle's label defines as one serving.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tropicana's campaign has a new slogan to remind buyers that it is not made from concentrate. It also features a new carton design and attractive models.
 The company is retiring its longtime straw logo and carton design. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); BRANDING (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (89%); SOFT DRINKS (87%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); PACKAGED GOODS (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD PACKAGING (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); RETAIL SALES (71%); FOOD MFG (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); COCA-COLA CO (84%); PEPSICO INC (82%); GENERAL MILLS INC (53%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (84%); PEP (NYSE) (82%); GIS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (82%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (53%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (53%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (53%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



242 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Shares Swoon on Dim Earnings Forecast

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
New worries about corporate losses and soaring unemployment pummeled Wall Street on Wednesday, wiping away nearly all the gains stocks had made since the beginning of the year. 
 Oil prices plunged 12 percent on news that stockpiles had grown more than expected.
 Warnings from the media company Time Warner and the computer chip maker Intel foreshadowed a bleak season ahead for corporate earnings, sending stocks into an early dive that deepened as the day continued. 
 ''I think people are now saying, 'Gee, this is just the beginning of the earnings period. We're not out of the woods yet,' '' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 245.40 points, or 2.7 percent, to close at 8,769.70, its worst day in more than a month. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended down 3 percent at 906.65, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index closed 3.2 percent lower, at 1,599.06.
 The major indexes have rebounded 15 to 20 percent from their recent lows of late November, but Wednesday's sell-off prompted questions of whether investors had lost the optimism that crept back into the markets over the last two weeks. Although investors are braced for bad news as the economy languishes in a deep recession, analysts said that earnings warnings or stark losses in nonfarm payroll numbers still have the power to drive markets lower. 
 ''We know the trend, we just don't know the angle,'' Mr. Stovall said. ''Investors are putting on their 3-D glasses to try to ascertain the depth, the diffusion and the duration of this recession.''
 Shares of Intel fell 6.1 percent to $14.44 a share after the chip maker said its fourth-quarter revenue had dropped more than 20 percent from a year earlier, as demand for computers and microprocessors ebbed. Other computer and software companies, including Apple, Google and Microsoft also closed lower.
 ''The earnings season will be a critical test of whether the bear market's over or not,'' said Ed Yardeni, of Yardeni Research. ''The question will be guidance. Most managements are going to be saying, 'We can't give you any guidance. We don't know where this thing's going to go.' ''
 Oil prices for February delivery fell $5.95 to settle at $42.63 a barrel in New York on Wednesday, after the Energy Information Administration reported that crude inventories had increased by 6.7 million barrels in the week ended Jan. 2. 
 ''This is a perfect game for speculators to play,'' said Fadel Gheit, managing director of oil and gas at Oppenheimer & Company. ''They can take oil prices up 10 percent in one day and bring them down 10 percent the next day for no real reason.''
 The market's drop on Wednesday blunted a sharp rally that had pulled oil prices briefly above $50 a barrel as the OPEC cartel promised to adhere to a production cut and Russia cut off gas supplies to the Ukraine. 
 A report from Automatic Data Processing, a payroll processing company, raised new concerns about unemployment, showing that private employers had cut 693,000 jobs as the recession deepened in December, far more than economists' expectations of 495,000 job losses. The report stoked fears that unemployment numbers for December, scheduled to be released on Friday, could be far worse than economists were expecting.
 The United States lost a total of 1.9 million jobs for last year through November as the crises in financial and credit markets helped send the weakening economy into a sharp decline. Unemployment rose to 6.7 percent in November, and economists said it could reach 7 percent in December.
 ''Service sector losses are rising fastest,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, wrote in a note. ''We await Friday with trepidation.'' 
 Separately, the aluminum maker Alcoa said late Tuesday after the markets closed that it would reduce its global work force by about 13,500, or 13 percent, by the end of the year. Alcoa also said it planned to reduce output by 18 percent this year, as the global recession saps demand for aluminum and drags metals prices lower.
 Shares of Alcoa closed down 10.5 percent Wednesday, at $10.89 a share. 
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 14/32, to 110 29/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 2.49 percent, from 2.45 percent late Tuesday.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of 70-day cash management bills and 3-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); RECESSION (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); TRENDS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (85%); APPLE INC (82%); TIME WARNER INC (72%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (60%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); TWX (NYSE) (72%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



243 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: In Budget Straits, Three States Are in Same Boat

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Quick 

 BODY:
guess which governor is speaking: ''Yes, 2008 is behind us,'' went the address on Wednesday on the state's fiscal crisis, ''but the problems it ushered in will not go quietly in this new year. We will not soon see an end to bankruptcies and foreclosures, to pink slips or red ink. ... These are the worst financial times any of us can remember.'' 
 Turns out that was Gov. M. Jodi Rell of Connecticut addressing the opening session of the Connecticut General Assembly -- not New York's governor, David A. Paterson, who cited a ''historic economic challenge -- the greatest in nearly a century'' in his first State of the State address in Albany on Wednesday, or Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, who proposed $812 million in cuts this week from a budget he'd earlier described as cutting spending ''cold turkey.'' 
 Happy families, as Tolstoy put it, are all alike, and every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. No one ever described state legislatures as happy families. But to survey the unhappy outlook in our bruised little part of the world is to see almost the opposite of what Tolstoy had in mind. You can't tell the rhetoric and pain apart in Albany, Hartford and Trenton. It's hard to remember a time when the fiscal landscape in all three states, all misery all the time, was so similar.
 ''All recessions are worse in some places than in others, and the New York area is one place where it's worst this time,'' said Nicholas Johnson, director of the State Fiscal Project at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington. ''All three states are in the same boat, and it's pouring harder and harder.''
 Of course, we're not the only ones whose state government finances are in such dire straits. A report by Mr. Johnson's group found that at least 44 states (virtually all of those that don't get substantial revenues from energy production) are facing substantial budget shortages.
 In addition to the states most dependent on Wall Street (that would be us), the others in bad shape tend to be the ones where the housing bubble was most extended and the pop most catastrophic. According to the report, no state is in a deeper hole than California, which has the biggest gap to fill in what's left of its current budget ($13.8 billion, or 13.6 percent of its 2009 general fund budget), and the biggest gap in its projected 2010 budget ($25 billion, or 24.8 percent).
 That said, there are some pretty significant differences among New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Most striking, if not surprising, is that for all the shared pain, the hole is deepest by far in New York. The 2010 budget estimates by Mr. Johnson's group show Connecticut with a shortfall of 14.5 percent and New Jersey of 12.3 percent. In New York the projected gap is $13.7 billion, or 24.3 percent. 
 Donald J. Boyd, a senior fellow at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany, noted that three financial sector industries accounted for 1.9 percent of New York's employment but 30 percent of its wage growth from 2003 to 2007. Similarly, capital gains account for a far higher percentage of state revenues in New York than they do in other states.
 ''Governments have trouble dealing with a 2 or 3 percent shortfall,'' he said. ''So the gaps in New Jersey and Connecticut are huge. What's happened in New York, the speed and scope of economic decline, is astounding.''
 THERE are other differences. New York and New Jersey have Democratic governors, and Democrats control both houses of the legislature, suggesting at least some degree of shared interest and a political landscape amenable to revenue increases from taxes, tolls or fees. Connecticut has a Republican governor averse to tax increases and a legislature in which Democrats have a solid majority in both houses, suggesting a more complicated political environment and a process more likely to include service cuts than tax increases. 
 And for all the angst now, the pain is just starting. Mr. Johnson's group projects an overall budget gap of $180 billion for the states nationwide in 2011, exceeding the $145 billion estimated for in 2010. Kenneth Dautrich, a public policy professor at the University of Connecticut who is advising the Rell administration on budget issues, said it was crucial for all three states to avoid the kind of revenue shifting and use of one-time financing sources, which has skewed the fiscal picture in New Jersey since the administration of Christie Whitman. 
 ''If states don't turn to one-time gimmicks, you can solve the problems of 2011 and 2012 while you're solving the ones of 2010,'' Mr. Dautrich said. ''People have to know there are going to be cuts all over the place. If you have a small deficit, you can have people digging their heels in the sand and saying, 'Don't touch me.' I don't see a lot of that happening in Connecticut. People know there's going to be suffering across the board.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%); M JODI RELL (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



244 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Buying IndyMac at a Bargain Price

BYLINE: By LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
The private equity firms buying IndyMac, the failed California-based bank, will get loans and securities with a face value of $23 billion, and a couple of mortgage businesses for an outlay of just $1.6 billion in cash. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also handed them several other benefits. But the F.D.I.C. may have been too soft on the buyers.
 First, J.C. Flowers, Paulson and others are paying what looks to be a low headline price of $13.9 billion, including assumed liabilities, for IndyMac's $16 billion loan portfolio, $6.9 billion of securities and two mortgage servicing platforms. That suggests a discount from face value of a minimum of 40 percent on the loans and securities. 
 But the discount on those assets is probably even greater. Last March, the investor Wilbur Ross bought Option One, which has a mortgage servicing business about a third the size of IndyMac's, for $1.1 billion. Extrapolate that to IndyMac's servicing business as a rough comparison, and it implies a value of roughly $3 billion. 
 That would mean the private equity buyers are paying about $11 billion for IndyMac's loans and securities, or about a 55 percent discount from face value. Depending on the details of the assets, even in a dire market that could be a bargain. 
 The deal echoes some that were struck during the last American banking crisis, in the early 1990s, but the F.D.I.C. now appears to be giving more away. Last time around, the F.D.I.C. or other government agencies retained significant upside, as well as sharing losses.
 By contrast, IndyMac's buyers will bear the first 20 percent of any future write-downs on about $13 billion of the loans. Beyond that, though, the lion's share of losses will be borne by the F.D.I.C. But the agency will share only in the profits associated with a $2 billion collection of loans.
 The F.D.I.C. is also leaving in place a $6 billion loan to IndyMac that could be hard to refinance. Throw in IndyMac's deposit liabilities of more than $6 billion, and that leaves only $1.6 billion of the $13.9 billion of assets for the buyers to fund with new cash. On top of that, the buying group has applied for a federal holding company charter for its acquisition vehicle. That could eventually bring the buyers tax benefits too.
 The F.D.I.C. says the deal allows it to rid itself of hard-to-sell assets, including IndyMac's portfolio of troublesome Alt-A mortgages. The agency had already sunk about $9 billion from its insurance fund into IndyMac, so while it did shop the bank to a range of possible buyers, it may have understandably been in a hurry to return it to private hands. Perhaps that justifies some of F.D.I.C.'s concessions. But assuming no one steps in with a better offer this time, the agency should aim to strike a harder bargain next time.
 Paper Pushers
 It used to be that if you wanted a job done properly, you did it yourself. That no longer holds for the administration of hedge funds. The practice of doing administrative work in-house was already on the wane. But Bernard L. Madoff's apparent fraud appears to be accelerating the march toward outsourcing. 
 Exhibit A this week is Millennium Management, the old-school hedge fund firm run by Izzy Englander. All its funds are now going to be administered by GlobeOp Financial Services. That means tasks like reconciling cash positions will now be handled outside.
 Millennium's move does not suggest anything is amiss. But it does reflect a hardening investor mood expressed most decisively, if belatedly, by Union Bancaire Privee, the Swiss bank. After big losses on investments managed by Mr. Madoff, UBP said it would no longer invest in funds that didn't outsource administration.
 The idea is that an independent administrator, earning only service fees and not reliant on any one fund, has no incentive to let anything slip by. Funds that outsource trading and custody-related functions should give investors even more comfort, because that gives administrators different sources of data to cross-reference.
 By contrast, Mr. Madoff's investment outfit was buried within his market-making firm, so he appears to have acted as his own administrator, prime broker and custodian. That may have allowed him to fabricate consistent-looking documentation to fool his investors.
 With investors and regulators demanding more transparency, hedge fund managers may find it a blessing to hand paper-pushing tasks to someone else. Then they'll have more time to do what they are supposed to do best: investing. 
 LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and RICHARD BEALES
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IndyMac, the failed California-based bank, is likely to be a windfall for its buyers, who are getting a bargain, with federal help. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIAL BOUYS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (85%); JC FLOWERS & CO LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (85%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (85%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



245 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: China Losing Taste for Debt From the U.S.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China has bought more than $1 trillion of American debt, but as the global downturn has intensified, Beijing is starting to keep more of its money at home, a move that could have painful effects for American borrowers.
The declining Chinese appetite for United States debt, apparent in a series of hints from Chinese policy makers over the last two weeks, with official statistics due for release in the next few days, comes at an inconvenient time.
On Tuesday, President-elect Barack Obama predicted the possibility of trillion-dollar deficits ''for years to come,'' even after an $800 billion stimulus package. Normally, China would be the most avid taker of the debt required to pay for those deficits, mainly short-term Treasuries, which are government i.o.u.'s.
In the last five years, China has spent as much as one-seventh of its entire economic output buying foreign debt, mostly American. In September, it surpassed Japan as the largest overseas holder of Treasuries. 
But now Beijing is seeking to pay for its own $600 billion stimulus -- just as tax revenue is falling sharply as the Chinese economy slows. Regulators have ordered banks to lend more money to small and medium-size enterprises, many of which are struggling with lower exports, and to local governments to build new roads and other projects.
''All the key drivers of China's Treasury purchases are disappearing -- there's a waning appetite for dollars and a waning appetite for Treasuries, and that complicates the outlook for interest rates,'' said Ben Simpfendorfer, an economist in the Hong Kong office of the Royal Bank of Scotland.
Fitch Ratings, the credit rating agency, forecasts that China's foreign reserves will increase by $177 billion this year -- a large number, but down sharply from an estimated $415 billion last year.
China's voracious demand for American bonds has helped keep interest rates low for borrowers ranging from the federal government to home buyers. Reduced Chinese enthusiasm for buying American bonds will reduce this dampening effect.
For now, of course, there seems to be no shortage of buyers for Treasury bonds and other debt instruments as investors flee global economic uncertainty for the stability of United States government debt. This is why Treasury yields have plummeted to record lows. (The more investors want notes and bonds, the lower the yield, and short-term rates are close to zero.) The long-term effects of China's using its money to increase its people's standard of living, and the United States' becoming less dependent on one lender, could even be positive. But that rebalancing must happen gradually to not hurt the value of American bonds or of China's huge holdings.
Another danger is that investors will demand higher returns for holding Treasury securities, which will put pressure on the United States government to increase the interest rates those securities pay. As those interest rates increase, they will put pressure on the interest rates that other borrowers pay.
When and how all that will happen is unknowable. What is clear now is that the impact of the global downturn on China's finances has been striking, and it is having an effect on what the Chinese government does with its money.
The central government's tax revenue soared 32 percent in 2007, as factories across China ran at full speed. But by November, government revenue had dropped 3 percent from a year earlier. That prompted Finance Minister Xie Xuren to warn on Monday that 2009 would be ''a difficult fiscal year.''
A senior central bank official, Cai Qiusheng, mentioned just before Christmas that China's $1.9 trillion foreign exchange reserves had actually begun to shrink. The reserves -- mainly bonds issued by the Treasury, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- had for the most part been rising quickly ever since the Asian financial crisis in 1998.
The strength of the dollar against the euro in the fourth quarter of last year contributed to slower growth in China's foreign reserves, said Fan Gang, an academic adviser to China's central bank, at a conference in Beijing on Tuesday. The central bank keeps track of the total value of its reserves in dollars, so a weaker euro means that euro-denominated assets are worth less in dollars, decreasing the total value of the reserves.
But the pace of China's accumulation of reserves began slowing in the third quarter along with the slowing of the Chinese economy, and appeared to reflect much broader shifts.
China manages its reserves with considerable secrecy. But economists believe about 70 percent is denominated in dollars and most of the rest in euros.
China has bankrolled its huge reserves by effectively requiring the country's entire banking sector, which is state-controlled, to take nearly one-fifth of its deposits and hand them to the central bank. The central bank, in turn, has used the money to buy foreign bonds.
Now the central bank is rapidly reducing this requirement and pushing banks to lend more money in China instead.
At the same time, three new trends mean that fewer dollars are pouring into China -- so the government has fewer dollars to buy American bonds.
The first, little-noticed trend is that the monthly pace of foreign direct investment in China has fallen by more than a third since the summer. Multinationals are hoarding their cash and cutting back on construction of new factories.
The second trend is that the combination of a housing bust and a two-thirds fall in the Chinese stock market over the last year has led many overseas investors -- and even some Chinese -- to begin quietly to move money out of the country, despite stringent currency controls.
So much Chinese money has poured into Hong Kong, which has its own internationally convertible currency, that the territory announced Wednesday that it had issued a record $16.6 billion worth of extra currency last month to meet demand.
A third trend that may further slow the flow of dollars into China is the reduction of its huge trade surpluses.
China's trade surplus set another record in November, $40.1 billion. But because prices of Chinese imports like oil are starting to recover while demand remains weak for Chinese exports like consumer electronics, most economists expect China to run average trade surpluses this year of less than $20 billion a month.
That would give China considerably less to spend abroad than the $50 billion a month that it poured into international financial markets -- mainly American bond markets -- during the first half of 2008.
''The pace of foreign currency flows into China has to slow,'' and therefore the pace of China's reinvestment of that foreign currency in overseas bonds will also slow, said Dariusz Kowalczyk, the chief investment officer at SJS Markets Ltd., a Hong Kong securities firm.
Two officials of the People's Bank of China, the nation's central bank, said in separate interviews that the government still had enough money available to buy dollars to prevent China's currency, the yuan, from rising. A stronger yuan would make Chinese exports less competitive.
For a combination of financial and political reasons, the decline in China's purchases of dollar-denominated assets may be less steep than the overall decline in its purchases of foreign assets.
Many Chinese companies are keeping more of their dollar revenue overseas instead of bringing it home and converting it into yuan to deposit in Chinese banks.
Treasury data from Washington also suggests the Chinese government might be allocating a higher proportion of its foreign currency reserves to the dollar in recent weeks and less to the euro. The Treasury data suggests China is buying more Treasuries and fewer bonds from Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, with a sharp increase in Treasuries in October.
But specialists in international money flows caution against relying too heavily on these statistics. The statistics mostly count bonds that the Chinese government has bought directly, and exclude purchases made through banks in London and Hong Kong; with the financial crisis weakening many banks, the Chinese government has a strong incentive to buy more of its bonds directly than in the past.
The overall pace of foreign reserve accumulation in China seems to have slowed so much that even if all the remaining purchases were Treasuries, the Chinese government's overall purchases of dollar-denominated assets will have fallen, economists said.
China's leadership is likely to avoid any complete halt to purchases of Treasuries for fear of appearing to be torpedoing American chances for an economic recovery at a vulnerable time, said Paul Tang, the chief economist at the Bank of East Asia here.
''This is a political decision,'' he said. ''This is not purely an investment decision.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: BUYING FEWER BONDS: China has slowed its purchases of Treasury bonds, mortgagebacked securities and other overseas investments. (Sources: Calculated from data from National Bureau of Statistics and People's Bank of China, via CEIC Data) (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); STATISTICS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (68%); LIVING STANDARDS (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (65%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (53%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (65%); RBS (LSE) (65%); RBS (AMS) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



246 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: What You Don't Know About Gaza

BYLINE: By RASHID KHALIDI. 
Rashid Khalidi, a professor of Arab studies at Columbia, is the author of the forthcoming ''Sowing Crisis: The Cold War and American Dominance in the Middle East.''

 BODY:
NEARLY everything you've been led to believe about Gaza is wrong. Below are a few essential points that seem to be missing from the conversation, much of which has taken place in the press, about Israel's attack on the Gaza Strip. 
 THE GAZANS Most of the people living in Gaza are not there by choice. The majority of the 1.5 million people crammed into the roughly 140 square miles of the Gaza Strip belong to families that came from towns and villages outside Gaza like Ashkelon and Beersheba. They were driven to Gaza by the Israeli Army in 1948. 
 THE OCCUPATION The Gazans have lived under Israeli occupation since the Six-Day War in 1967. Israel is still widely considered to be an occupying power, even though it removed its troops and settlers from the strip in 2005. Israel still controls access to the area, imports and exports, and the movement of people in and out. Israel has control over Gaza's air space and sea coast, and its forces enter the area at will. As the occupying power, Israel has the responsibility under the Fourth Geneva Convention to see to the welfare of the civilian population of the Gaza Strip.
 THE BLOCKADE Israel's blockade of the strip, with the support of the United States and the European Union, has grown increasingly stringent since Hamas won the Palestinian Legislative Council elections in January 2006. Fuel, electricity, imports, exports and the movement of people in and out of the Strip have been slowly choked off, leading to life-threatening problems of sanitation, health, water supply and transportation. 
 The blockade has subjected many to unemployment, penury and malnutrition. This amounts to the collective punishment -- with the tacit support of the United States -- of a civilian population for exercising its democratic rights. 
 THE CEASE-FIRE Lifting the blockade, along with a cessation of rocket fire, was one of the key terms of the June cease-fire between Israel and Hamas. This accord led to a reduction in rockets fired from Gaza from hundreds in May and June to a total of less than 20 in the subsequent four months (according to Israeli government figures). The cease-fire broke down when Israeli forces launched major air and ground attacks in early November; six Hamas operatives were reported killed.
 WAR CRIMES The targeting of civilians, whether by Hamas or by Israel, is potentially a war crime. Every human life is precious. But the numbers speak for themselves: Nearly 700 Palestinians, most of them civilians, have been killed since the conflict broke out at the end of last year. In contrast, there have been around a dozen Israelis killed, many of them soldiers. Negotiation is a much more effective way to deal with rockets and other forms of violence. This might have been able to happen had Israel fulfilled the terms of the June cease-fire and lifted its blockade of the Gaza Strip. 
 This war on the people of Gaza isn't really about rockets. Nor is it about ''restoring Israel's deterrence,'' as the Israeli press might have you believe. Far more revealing are the words of Moshe Yaalon, then the Israeli Defense Forces chief of staff, in 2002: ''The Palestinians must be made to understand in the deepest recesses of their consciousness that they are a defeated people.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 30, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Jan. 8, on misperceptions of Gaza, included an unverified quotation. A former Israeli Defense Forces chief of staff, Moshe Yaalon, was quoted as saying in 2002 that ''the Palestinians must be made to understand in the deepest recesses of their consciousness that they are a defeated people.'' This quotation, while cited widely, does not appear in the Israeli newspaper interview to which it is usually attributed. Its original source has not been found, and thus it should not have appeared in the article.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RONALD J. CALA II) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WAR CRIMES (88%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (75%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); MALNUTRITION (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); ELECTIONS (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



247 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Eloping to Vegas? Why Not Lower Manhattan?

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Someone plopped an iPod into a docking station and strains of Vivaldi filled the room as the couple strode in -- she in a white minidress and peep-toe shoes; he in black slacks, maroon shirt and an ivory rose clipped to his collar.
 ''This place is really lavish,'' said the bride, Jennifer Avila, 22, taking in the chandeliers, bronze counters and shiny marble columns. 
 ''It's really romantic to me,'' said the groom, Carlos Sanchez, 27.
 Those words were rarely used to describe the old Manhattan Marriage Bureau, a cramped space with cracked tile floors and plastic chairs in the Municipal Building across from City Hall.
 But, with revenues tight and tourist dollars desperately needed, the Bloomberg administration has created a 24,000-square-foot wedding palace, in the hope of increasing the number of couples who marry at the city clerk's office.
 ''We want to be the wedding destination of the world,'' said First Deputy Mayor Patricia E. Harris.
 And it's not just the $25 wedding fee the city is selling. Forget the wedding band? No problem. The new bureau offers an elastic faux-diamond band for $9. No flowers? They are available as well -- $4 to $7 for a single stem and $25 to $50 for a bridal bouquet. There is also hairspray ($4), disposable digital cameras ($16.25) and tissues, at $1.75 a pack, for the weepy types.
 The $12 million project, overseen by the designer Jamie Drake, who did Madonna's Los Angeles home and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's Upper East Side town house, involved the renovation of an old Department of Motor Vehicles office up the street from City Hall.
 Mr. Drake created two separate wedding chapels off the building's central rotunda. In the east chapel, the sofa and walls feature apricot and peach colors; the west chapel is done in purple and lavender. Each chapel has an abstract painting that matches the walls and hangs next to the lectern from where the clerk performs the ceremonies.
 Nearby bathrooms were turned into expansive dressing rooms, with full-length mirrors and long vanity counters lit by the soft hue of recessed wall fixtures. 
 The city has even set up an oversize photograph of City Hall to be used as a backdrop for pictures.
 Bloomberg administration officials declined to estimate how much money the weddings would generate. But the city's marketing agency, NYC & Company, has already struck a partnership with TheKnot.com, a Web-based wedding clearinghouse, to create travel packages that would include a ceremony at the bureau followed by a weekend in a hotel. 
 ''I have a warning for Las Vegas: You better watch out,'' said Carley Roney, founder of TheKnot.com. ''With these new digs, there might just be a new world wedding capital.''
 The city clerk's office issued 66,600 marriage licenses last year and performed about 40,000 weddings throughout the five boroughs, including 16,000 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau, city statistics show. There were 106,000 licenses issued last year in Clark County, Nev., which includes Las Vegas, according to the Nevada Wedding Association. 
 And while the number of licenses issued in New York City increased by 4,000 between 2005 and 2007, it fell by about 20,000 in the Las Vegas area, according to statistics from both cities. Still, Las Vegas remains the country's top wedding destination and weddings are the city's second-biggest source of revenue, after gambling.
 ''Weddings are a $72 billion business in this country,'' Ms. Roney said. ''And despite what's going on in these tough economic times, the brides will go on'' with their plans.
 Renovations on the New York project began in August 2006. Mr. Drake said the marble on the floor, walls and columns that line the main hallway are all original to the 1920s building, as are the Art Deco crown moldings, ornamentation and the bronze on the counters. All that had to be done, he said, was to clean, polish and restore them.
 But it is not simply an aesthetic upgrade. City officials are trying to overhaul the whole experience in the new space. 
 Gone are the metal detectors and security guards who used to greet couples at the entrance to the Municipal Building, bellowing, ''Put your cellphones on the tray! Take your coins out of your pockets!'' 
 The interminable lines -- to apply for a marriage license, to pick up the license, to get on the chapel's waiting list -- will be condensed into one. A phone service will offer translations to 170 languages. And instead of written forms, couples can fill out computerized ones online or use the self-service kiosks right near the front door.
 Also, for the first time, the marriage license, which costs $35, and the fee to have the wedding performed there, $25, can be paid for by credit card -- putting an end to the need for about-to-be-wed couples to dash out to the closest A.T.M.
 As for minuses, aside from the fact that the new bureau is a longer walk from the subway than the old one, they are hard to find.
 ''This place is beautiful,'' Najwa Bousaid, who works in the bureau, said from behind the bronze-and-stone counter. ''I love the lighting. It's so much better than the fluorescent lighting we have in the other place.''
 The new Marriage Bureau, on the ground floor at 141 Worth Street, will open to the public on Monday, but reporters were given a sneak peek on Wednesday morning. City officials chose Ms. Avila and Mr. Sanchez who are from Sunnyside, Queens, from among couples who applied for licenses last week to be the first to be married in the new bureau. 
 That was in part because the couple wanted to marry fast: Mr. Sanchez, a former Marine who served in Iraq in 2005 and has since joined the Army, is leaving on Friday for training at Fort Knox, Ky.
 ''We're ready for whatever comes our way,'' Ms. Avila said. ''We're just happy we're together.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of editing errors, an article on Thursday about the new Manhattan Marriage Bureau misstated the year that the city clerk's office issued 66,600 licenses and performed about 40,000 marriages, and also misstated the year that 106,000 licenses were issued in Clark County, Nev., which includes Las Vegas. All figures were for 2007, not last year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jennifer Avila, 22, and Carlos Sanchez, 27, the first to wed at Manhattan's new Marriage Bureau. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
 ''This place is beautiful,'' says Najwa Bousaid, above, an employee. Items like the 2 Carat Mug can be purchased there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (89%); MAYORS (88%); CITIES (88%); MARRIAGE (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (70%); TOUR PACKAGES (69%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (64%); TOURISM (55%); PAINTING (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



248 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2271 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: January 8, 2009

 BODY:
International
 EUROPE INTERVENES IN QUARREL
 Between Russia and Ukraine
 The European Union has stepped between Ukraine and the Russian natural-gas monopoly, Gazprom, in a scuffle that led Gazprom to halt the flow of gas through Ukraine for Europe. The union secured promises from both countries to allow international and independent monitoring of the flow of natural gas through Ukraine. Page A6 
 MODERN-DAY 'COMFORT WOMEN'
 A group of former prostitutes in South Korea is accusing former government leaders and the United States military of complicity in supporting and encouraging prostitution between the South Korean women and American soldiers stationed in Korea. The women, who are seeking compensation and an apology, have compared themselves to the so-called comfort women who were forced into prostitution by the Japanese during World War II. Page A6 
 PAKISTAN FIRES SECURITY ADVISER
 Pakistan's national security adviser confirmed that the surviving gunman from terrorist attacks on Mumbai, India, in November is a Pakistani citizen. Hours after the announcement, the adviser was fired for irresponsible behavior. Page A8 
 Saltillo Journal Abduction Site Joins
 El Meson Principal del Norte, a restaurant, was the scene of the kidnapping of Felix Batista, an American security consultant specializing in abduction cases. He is still missing. The restaurant joins a long list of places in Mexico linked to violence, and it is also a pretty good place for spit-roasted meat. Page A8 
 ISRAELIS RESOLUTE AS DEATHS RISE 
 As Israel's soldiers mourned fallen comrades, and the body count climbed among Palestinian civilians, many Israelis reaffirmed their determination to continue the campaign against Hamas. Page A10 
 ISRAEL TO DISCUSS CEASE-FIRE
 Israel promised to send officials to Egypt to discuss halting the conflict in Gaza. But there have been no immediate diplomatic achievements, and the fighting between Hamas militants and Israeli soldiers did not abate beyond a brief pause. Page A12 
 Grief and Rage at U.N. School A12
 INTERVIEW WITH BRITISH INTELLIGENCE
 MI5 is Britain's domestic intelligence agency, and as such, secrets are its business. At the top of that list is its own existence and details thereof. That is, until the agency's director general granted an interview for its centennial, the first interview of its kind. Page A13 
 Iraqi Shiites Celebrate Ashura A14 
 National
 LABOR LEADERS NOW CALL FOR SINGLE FEDERATION OF UNIONS
 The presidents of 12 of the nation's largest labor unions called for reuniting the American labor movement, which split three and a half years ago when seven unions walked out of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. PAGE A16 
 Settlement in Arabic T-Shirt Case A16 
 'John Doe' Letters Sent to Survivors A17 
 U.S. PLANS FOR DRUG WAR SPILLOVER
 Warring drug cartels in Mexico have escalated violence and mayhem there to such a level that United States officials have developed plans for military and civilian law enforcement to quickly beat back any spillover, the Homeland Security secretary, Michael Chertoff, said in a wide-ranging interview two weeks before he leaves office. PAGE A16 
 U.S. Measure of Cancer Risk Faulted A18 
 A.P. ITALIAN TEST TO END
 The College Board will drop its Advanced Placement Italian program at the end of this academic year, just three years after it began offering it. PAGE A19 
 Senate Democrats May Seat Burris A21
 A GRAND AND CONTROVERSIAL PLAN
 One of the most ambitious aspects of Barack Obama's domestic agenda, a plan to create a new public health insurance plan to compete with private insurers, also happens to be anathema to many insurers, employers and Republicans. No other proposal so clearly defines the political and philosophical differences between Mr. Obama and Republicans. PAGE A21 
 MORE NAMES FOR TOP OF STATE DEPT.
 As she awaits Senate confirmation as secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton is filling out the senior echelon of the State Department. She will keep William J. Burns, above left, as the under secretary for political affairs, and is likely to name Richard C. Holbrooke, above right, a longtime diplomat who brokered the accord that brought peace to the Balkans, as a special envoy to Pakistan and India, according to people who have been told of the decisions. PAGE A21 
 TV Host Decides Against Senate A21 
 CRITIC JOINS JUSTICE DEPTARTMENT
 The president-elect's nominee to head the Office of Legal Counsel at the Justice Department, Dawn Johnsen, has harshly condemned some of the legal opinions the office has produced on presidential power in the war on terror under the Bush administration. If Ms. Johnsen, a constitutional law professor at Indiana University, is confirmed, she will have a chance to do some overturning. PAGE A22 
 Obama May Lose BlackBerry Fight A22 
 New York
 GOVERNOR'S STATE ADDRESS:
 Straight-Up, No Chaser
 There's no way to sugarcoat what Gov. David A. Paterson had come before the Legislature to say. In his first State of the State address, Mr. Paterson unveiled a few new programs but mostly was frank about the year ahead. Page A24 
 ELDERLY MADOFF INVESTORS 
 Lose Their Safety Net
 While Madoff's scheme has certainly rocked thousands of lives, many of the 8,000 customers will survive financially: the universities, the foundations or the wealthy. But dozens, if not hundreds, of victims lost their life savings. For elderly investors, that lost money was a safety-net. With it gone, how will they afford the care they need to get through their day-to-day lives, like the monthly fees to assisted-living facilities and home-health aides they have come to depend on. Page A24 
 CHARGES FOR 3 IN ELECTION ATTACKS
 The three Staten Island men who went on a post-election rampage, assaulting four people leaving one in a coma, have been charged with several crimes. In particular, all three have been charged with conspiracy to interfere with voting rights, which has elevated this case to the Federal level. All three have pled not-guilty to all the charges. Page A25 
 Sports
 A ROAD DICTATED BY HARD WORK
 Has Landed This Coach on Top
 It's a road that spans decades, countries and multiple states. It has been hard-scrabble, and he had to struggle up from the bottom relying on nothing more than his ability. But now, the Giants coach Steve Spagnuolo can write his own ticket as one of the most sought-after coaches in the N.F.L. Page B11 
 First Black Football Coach at Yale B11
 THE UNSUNG HEROES OF FOOTBALL
 Even the most die-hard fan would have a hard time recognizing the men that some head coaches point out as among the most valuable people in the program. It's not a player, but the head strength and conditioning coach. N.C.A.A. rules prohibit position coaches from working with players in the off-season, but such a restriction does not apply to the strength and conditioning coaches who practically become head coach, their voices providing the cadence for players' lives in the off-season. Page B11 
 A Sooner From Detroit B12
 Business
 MADOFF'S EXPENSIVE GIFTS 
 Bring About a Harsher Cost
 Bernard L. Madoff, the financier accused of running a $50 billion Ponzi scheme, violated his bail terms by sending his friends and relatives packages containing 16 watches, 4 diamond brooches, 2 sets of cufflinks and an emerald ring with a total value of at least $1 million, federal prosecutors said. The prosecutors argued in a court filing that Mr. Madoff's bail be revoked and that he be sent from his $7 million Manhattan apartment to jail. PAGE B1 
 THE AMISH FLOCK TO SMALL BUSINESS
 The Amish, the religious sect that has kept the modern world at bay, have been leaving a quiet life of farming for jobs in small businesses that favor skills like furniture-making, quilting and cooking. Though they still drive horses and buggies, remain off the power grid and wear simple, handmade clothing, some try to balance their own values with the culture of the marketplace by using computers and power tools and talking on cellphones at their jobs. PAGE B3 
 Intel Lowers Its Forecast Again B3 
 BRITISH RETAILER PLANS CUTBACKS
 The Marks & Spencer Group, which sells clothes, food and furniture, became the latest British retailer to announce job cuts and store closings as the sector grappled with the country's worst downturn in more than 17 years. PAGE B4 
 EUROPE NEARS RECESSION, DATA SAYS
 Data suggests that more than a year after the United States entered a recession, Europe is now catching up quickly as the pain of job losses and shrinking orders spreads. Bart van Ark, chief economist of the Conference Board, a nonprofit group that assesses business trends, said, ''Europe is now rushing rapidly into a recession, faster than the United States.'' PAGE B4
 A PLEA FOR MORE LENIENT TAX LAWS
 In its annual written report to the nation's lawmakers, the National Taxpayer Advocate, the watchdog agency of the Internal Revenue Service, said that Congress should ease certain tax laws and practices governing defaults by ordinary Americans on their mortgages, credit cards, car loans and other consumer debt, to avoid adding to thousands of taxpayers' financial malaise in the economic downturn. PAGE B5 
 Change for Freddie and Fannie B6 
 Arts
 WHEN A FAMOUS FILM UNDERDOG
 Is Honored by Punk Rock
 If art teaches us anything, it's that all paths can eventually lead to a crossroads. Peter Lorre, cabaret, ska-punk and performance art meet on a dark and stormy night -- enter The World/Inferno Friendship Society with a sound blended from the latter three and a new show that tosses in the first. ''Addicted to Bad Ideas: Peter Lorre's 20th Century,'' is part of the Public Theater's Under the Radar Festival at Webster Hall. page C1 
 '24' AND POLITICAL PALATABILITY
 Can a television show whose decline in viewership has matched the public's distaste for the Bush administration and the war on terror survive a shift in politics? When the season opens with the protagonist himself testifying before a Senate committee investigating the use of torture, perhaps his audience has moved beyond him. page C1 
 Dance Review Same Form, Expression Shifts
 As the curtain rises and falls, worlds change, atmospheres shift and wildly disparate visions are presented, writes Alastair Macauley of three Balanchine works at the New York City Ballet. page C1 
 Finding the 5th Gospel C1 
 Abroad 
 Berlin Honors One of Its Own
 The photographer Gisele Freund caused a fair bit of puzzlement and a particular aggravation in the United States when she published an unflattering photo of a foreign dignitary. Such can be the plight of pioneers that what they may lack in talent, they make up for by being unafraid to go somewhere new, Michael Kimmelman writes. Now her hometown of Berlin shows her some love. page C1 
 Arts Briefly C2
 Familiar Music, Breezy Show C3 
 Music Reviews
 When a Tribute Falters C3 
 ILLUSIONS, MEET SLEDGEHAMMER
 With a lyrical range that snarls at illusions and carries a nasty bite of self-awareness, Okkervil River and lead singer Will Sheff offer sharp gifted lyrics, Nate Chinen writes. page C5 
 Editorial
 STARTING THE REGULATORY WORK
 For decades, federal regulators have relied less on rules and enforcement and more on faith in market discipline to limit risk to the system -- and that has been a manifest failure. Anything less than a new rules-based regime would be inadequate in the task of restoring confidence and, eventually, reviving the economy. PAGE A26 
 MOVING FORWARD IN HARD TIMES
 Over the last few months, Gov. David Paterson of New York has been handing out gloomier and gloomier news in the face of a huge budget deficit. But in his first State of the State address, he said this was exactly the wrong time to hunker down and accomplish nothing. PAGE A26 
 BEHIND THE HEALTH SPENDING DATA
 Spending on health care in the United States grew in 2007 at the lowest rate in nine years. But buried within the statistics was sobering evidence that health costs can be remedied only through deep-seated reform. PAGE A26 
 Op-Ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 Was the selection of Roland Burris to replace Barack Obama in the Senate by the rogue Governor Rod Blagojevich ''tainted,'' according to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, or ''what the Lord has ordained,'' in the words of Burris himself? PAGE A27 
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 What we're seeing in the Middle East right now is the Boomerang Syndrome. Extremists on each side sustain the other, and the excessive Israeli ground assault in Gaza is likely to create more terrorists in the long run. PAGE A27 
 WHAT YOU DON'T KNOW ABOUT GAZA
 In an Op-Ed article, Rashid Khalidi, a Columbia University professor, says that nearly everything we know about Gaza is wrong. He lists some of the top issues that he believes are omitted from the discussion about Israel's war against Hamas. PAGE A27 
 FOR A LITTLE SCRAP OF HAIR
 It Sure Garners Attention
 It's the object of fluctuating opinion. The moustache can provoke reactions that seem a bit extreme considering it's mostly limited real-estate. Stars and sports figures alike are sporting thick, full moustaches. Just a few examples: from left to right, Burt Reynolds, Josh Brolin, Geraldo Rivera, Hulk Hogan and Jeffrey Wright . Is the hairy frown back in style? Page E1 
 BEHIND THE MANSCAPE
 The art of the 'stache, the whys, the whiches, the hows and the all-important whether. The tools of the trade, and the proper employment of them are a key step to maintaining the right mustache. For example. delicate trimming, not unlike that of the Japanese art of Bonsai, is a must. Page E7 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); HAMAS (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERVIEWS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PROSTITUTION (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); TERRORISM (73%); MUHARRAM (73%); CARTELS (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); MUMBAI TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (93%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (70%) ISRAEL (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UKRAINE (92%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



249 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ATLANTA JOURNAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times Find Replica Of White House for Sale

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
The replica of George W. Bush's desk still sits in the Oval Office beneath the Iranian and American flags. The seal of the president of the United States still adorns the floor mats across the hall from the zebra-skin rug. And the porch overlooking the 75-car parking lot is still called the Truman Balcony. 
 But soon enough, change is coming to Fred Milani's replica of the White House, an outsized casualty of the national housing crisis. 
 For the last seven years, almost as long as President Bush has been in Washington, Mr. Milani, an Iranian-American home developer, has lived in a scaled-down version of the presidential mansion in Atlanta. A private Xanadu for Mr. Milani, a headache for neighbors and a destination for camera-wielding gawkers, the 16,500-square-foot home has become a kooky symbol of this boom-boom city's ever-growing residential skyline.
 But now, like the current occupant of the real White House, Mr. Milani is planning to leave his home. 
 ''I still do not want to sell,'' he said. ''But I will.''
 Last month, Mr. Milani, 57, placed his house, in the North Druid Hills neighborhood, a few miles northeast of downtown, on sale for $9.88 million.
 A prominent builder of McMansions in a city that once could barely consume enough of them, Mr. Milani has fallen on financial hard times as the demand for real estate has waned.
 Twice he has narrowly avoided foreclosure on his home. Although he recently sold five houses, he is losing money on five other unsold ones and must repay multiple loans.
 The notion of someone selling a replica of the presidential mansion -- possibly to a buyer in Dubai -- is both humorous and painful to Atlantans, who are enduring one of the country's highest foreclosure rates, which they attribute, in part, to policies that come from the real White House. The forced sale of one of the city's most expensive homes, owned by someone who made his fortune in homebuilding, makes clear the widespread nature of the real estate collapse.
 ''The housing crisis has affected people at all income levels,'' said Mary Norwood, a member of the Atlanta City Council. ''This has been devastating to the whole economy.'' 
 Over the last 20 years, small ranch-style houses in North Druid Hills have given way to multimillion-dollar mansions, many built by Mr. Milani but none as unorthodox as his White House.
 Neighbors have long been split in their reactions to the Milani house. ''Honestly, we are very happy to be living next door to the White House,'' said Keith Klugman, a global health expert at Emory University. ''There are certain quirkinesses, but he is a very good neighbor.''
 But another neighbor, Gary Moss, a retired film professor, has had reservations. ''Certainly anybody has a right to build whatever is legal,'' Mr. Moss said. ''But my concern is that people are building houses that are so much larger than their families need. They seem like monuments to affluence rather than monuments to what people need.''
 Inside its wrought-iron gates, the Atlanta White House is a singular pastiche of Middle Eastern decor (wall rugs, a hookah), American political kitsch (Abraham Lincoln and the Emancipation Proclamation painted onto a bedroom wall), religious iconography (a tapestry of ''The Last Supper,'' a giant crucifix) and self-promotion (an ''M'' tiled into the pool, a bust of Mr. Milani). 
 It falls to Shawn Ghiai, the real estate agent for the Atlanta White House, to answer the question of who would want to move into such a personalized home? ''Wealthy international buyers, most likely,'' Mr. Ghiai said. ''Or maybe I'll contact one of the contenders for the real White House, maybe John McCain or Ross Perot.''
 Mr. Milani works in his own Oval Office. Guests sleep in the Lincoln Bedroom. And all 43 presidents -- plus President-elect Barack Obama -- stare down from a poster on his kitchen wall.
 All from a man who follows politics only loosely.
 ''Really, I am not very political,'' Mr. Milani said. ''The architect just asked, 'How about I build you the White House?' and I said yes. That is the whole story.''
 He voted for President Bush twice, he said, but after the economy deteriorated, he became a ''big fan'' of Mr. Obama. Most of his support, however, is reserved for God. He converted to Christianity from Islam in 1995, and his house reflects his adoration of his adopted faith. In the front hedges, he spelled ''God You'' in topiary. A life-size carving of a biblical scene overlooks the congregation room in his basement, where leaders of his church baptize Muslims into Christianity. 
 But the Atlanta White House's signature piece of artwork is a ceiling mural of Jesus ministering to people of various races. A Hispanic man wears a sombrero, an American Indian dons a headdress, and at the feet of Jesus is Mr. Milani himself, his head bowed in submission.
 ''It's a very unusual house, so it may be difficult to sell,'' Mr. Ghiai said. ''It's hard to sell homes, period, because of this economy. But there are still people with money, and if they find a good deal like this one, they will jump on it.''
 Several potential buyers have toured the property, and another person in Dubai is hoping to visit soon, Mr. Ghiai said.
 Despite the challenges, Mr. Milani and his wife, Yvonne, believe that God will assist them in selling the house. ''Jesus has always helped me,'' he said, ''even in the last minute.''
 When asked where he will live next, Mr. Milani said he did not know. But he proposed, half-seriously, ''I may build the Congress building across the street.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fred Milani's Atlanta White House features front and back facades that resemble the Washington original and also some personal touches like a painting, left, that reflects his Christian faith. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FORECLOSURE (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (78%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



250 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words

 BODY:
CHINA PULLS BACK China has long been a buyer of American debt. But Beijing is starting to keep more of its money at home to pay for an economic stimulus, a move that could be painful for American borrowers. 
 BIG FRAUD IN INDIASatyam Computer Services, one India's largest outsourcing companies, significantly inflated earnings and assets for years, the chairman said before resigning. [B1.] 
 LIFE AFTER STEEL Pittsburgh, which struggled when the steel industry collapsed in the early 1980s, can teach a lesson to Detroit and other cities fearing their economic livelihood. [A1.] 
 WHAT DEFICIT? Economists and politicians across the political spectrum say Congress should spend whatever it takes to rescue the economy. [B1.] 
 WRONG RESULTS Quest Diagnostics, the nation's largest medical laboratory company, provided possibly erroneous results on vitamin D levels to thousands of people. [B1.] 
 IT'S IN THE MAIL Prosecutors listed the items -- including diamond-encrusted watches -- that Bernard L. Madoff sent to relations. They said Mr. Madoff violated his bail agreement. [B1.] 
 A TOY STORE The goal of the International Consumer Electronics Show, which starts Thursday in Las Vegas, is to persuade you to throw out that gadget you were happy to buy not so long ago. [B7.] 
 SQUEEZE, PLEASE Tropicana, the juice brand owned by PepsiCo, is undertaking a significant makeover of its advertising, marketing and packaging. The $35 million campaign will carry the theme ''squeeze it's a natural.'' Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B8.] 
 CUTBACKS AT MARKS & SPENCER Marks & Spencer, the British retailer that traces its origins to 1884, announced job cuts and store closings as consumer spending slows. [B4.] 
 TIME WARNER'S WRITE-DOWN Time Warner announced a $25 billion write-down to reflect the declining value of America Online, another reminder of a controversial merger. [B3.] 
 ENTERING THE MAINSTREAM Many Amish are making a transition from the farming life to small businesses, balancing their values with the culture of the marketplace. [B3.] 
 STATES SETTLE WITH ARBITRON Arbitron, the radio ratings company, will overhaul a new measurement system for radio stations under a settlement with the New York and New Jersey attorney general's offices. [A26]
 THE DOWNTURN SPREADS More than a year after the United States entered a recession, Europe is now catching up. [B4.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); MERGERS (76%); RECESSION (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); TOYS & GAMES (67%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (67%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); TRADE SHOWS (52%)

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (58%); QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INC (56%); MARKS & SPENCER GROUP PLC (55%); PEPSICO INC (54%); AOL INC (53%)

TICKER: DGX (NYSE) (56%); MKS (LSE) (55%); PEP (NYSE) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS621511 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (56%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC8071 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (56%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



251 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans Border 'Surge' Against Any Drug Wars

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
The soaring level of violence in Mexico resulting from the drug wars there has led the United States to develop plans for a ''surge'' of civilian and perhaps even military law enforcement should the bloodshed spread across the border, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Wednesday.
 Mr. Chertoff said the criminal activity in Mexico, which has caused more than 5,300 deaths in the last year, had long troubled American authorities. But it reached a point last summer, he said, where he ordered specific plans to confront in this country the kind of shootouts and other mayhem that in Mexico have killed members of warring drug cartels, law enforcement officials and bystanders, often not far from the border. 
 ''We completed a contingency plan for border violence, so if we did get a significant spillover, we have a surge -- if I may use that word -- capability to bring in not only our own assets but even to work with'' the Defense Department, Mr. Chertoff said in a telephone interview. 
 Officials of the Homeland Security Department said the plan called for aircraft, armored vehicles and special teams to converge on border trouble spots, with the size of the force depending on the scale of the problem. Military forces would be called upon if civilian agencies like the Border Patrol and local law enforcement were overwhelmed, but the officials said military involvement was considered unlikely.
 Mr. Chertoff has expressed concern in recent months about the violence in Mexico, but the contingency plan has not been publicly debated, and the department has made no announcement of it. Department officials said Mr. Chertoff had mentioned it only in passing. 
 Aides to members of the House Homeland Security Committee, which oversees the department and has often clashed with Mr. Chertoff over his border policies, said Wednesday that they had heard little about the plan, though they welcomed it. 
 ''We support almost anything to secure our border,'' said Dena Graziano, a spokeswoman for the committee.
 Mr. Chertoff said that he had advised Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, nominated by President-elect Barack Obama to succeed him as homeland security secretary, that ''I put helping Mexico get control of its borders and its organized crime problems'' at the very top of the list of national security concerns.
 Ms. Napolitano's confirmation hearing begins next week. Her office denied requests for an interview.
 In the wide-ranging interview with Mr. Chertoff, two weeks before he leaves office, he suggested that his controversial efforts to rapidly build a fence along nearly 700 miles of the Mexican border, as well as his bolstering the size of the Border Patrol, were part of the push to defend against drug violence, not just to control illegal immigration.
 ''That's another reason, frankly, why I have been insistent on putting in the infrastructure and fencing and stuff like that,'' he said. ''Because I don't want, God forbid, if there is ever a spillover of significance, to have denied the Border Patrol anything they need to protect the lives and safety of American citizens.''
 He said the Border Patrol had reached a target of more than 18,000 agents by December, though some are still in training and not yet patrolling. Officials of the agents' union contend that the rapid buildup, to a size double that of less than a decade ago, and the agency's turnover have resulted in a largely inexperienced corps. 
 Fencing has gone up on 580 miles of the 2,000-mile border, short of the planned 661 miles, but Mr. Chertoff said he expected it to reach the final mark sometime in the coming months.
 And though he said he regretted not seeking more advice initially from the Border Patrol on developing the ''virtual fence,'' the much-publicized and much-delayed system of cameras and sensors to supplement border personnel, Mr. Chertoff predicted that it would gain widespread use in the coming years.
 Mr. Chertoff said the department's efforts to increase enforcement at the border and conduct immigration raids at workplaces had led to the lowest level of illegal immigration in decades, though he acknowledged that the recession had also had an impact on the number of illegal border crossings.
 He expressed no regret over the department's tactics, often criticized by immigrants' advocates as draconian and a cause of family separation, and disputed critics who suggest that the department is sprawling and in need of ''reform.''
 Mr. Obama used that word in introducing Ms. Napolitano and describing what she would bring to the job of overseeing a department created in 2003 out of 22 agencies and now employing more than 200,000 people, making it the third-largest cabinet-level department.
 There has been speculation in Washington that the Obama administration will reinstate the Federal Emergency Management Agency as an independent body outside of the department. But Mr. Chertoff said that as part of the Homeland Security apparatus, FEMA had redeemed itself after an admittedly poor response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005. He pointed to more recent disaster responses, including the generally praised federal reaction to Hurricane Gustav on the Gulf Coast last summer.
 ''What I would not do,'' he said, ''is start to monkey around with the major working parts, because that is only going to set us back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mexican soldiers patrolling after a shootout in Tijuana, a city hit hard by the violence that has killed drug traffickers, law enforcement officials and bystanders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLERMO ARIAS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Agents in Arizona keep watch on the border with technology that is to be part of the ''virtual fence'' of cameras and sensors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Marijuana was found in a vehicle being driven across the border and on mules and horses in the desert near Nogales, Ariz. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Border Patrol recruits in firearms training. The size of the force is now at 18,000 agents, twice that of less than a decade ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); DRUG POLICY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); IMMIGRATION (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); CARTELS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (79%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



252 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Governor Says New York Is in a Perilous Situation

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson delivered his first State of the State address to the Legislature on Wednesday, an often sobering message that came as thousands of union members gathered in freezing rain outside the Capitol to protest his proposed budget cuts. 
 The governor's speech contained little in the way of new policy initiatives, partly because there is scant money available to pay for new programs and partly because Mr. Paterson already rolled out his budget plan in mid-December -- more than a month early -- in anticipation of a bitter budget battle this year. 
 He did announce several new proposals intended to fight obesity, including a ban on trans fats in restaurants and a requirement that restaurant chains post information on the calories in their offerings. The proposals, which would require legislative approval, follow similar programs in New York City and California. Mr. Paterson said he would seek to ban junk food sales in public schools and to lend state money to green markets willing to open in poor communities. The governor has already unveiled a plan to impose an 18 percent tax on sugary sodas.
 ''We must aggressively address the most serious threat to the young people of New York State right now: the epidemic of childhood obesity,'' he said.
 Those plans were praised by health advocates and medical groups, while a litany of other groups, from education advocates to public employees' unions, continued to decry plans to make steep cuts to close a $15 billion deficit. 
 Mr. Paterson also announced a plan for the state to use renewable energy or to improve efficiency to meet 45 percent of its electricity demand within 15 years. And he reiterated plans to expand health care coverage and create a new higher education loan program. 
 Inside the Capitol, the mood was upbeat among Democrats, who have taken complete control of the Legislature. It is the first time since the early 1970s that one party has had control.
 Shortly before the governor's speech, Malcolm A. Smith, a Queens Democrat, was elected majority leader of the State Senate. Mr. Smith is the first Democrat to lead the chamber in 43 years and the first African-American to lead a majority party in the State Legislature. 
 Mr. Smith's ascension will significantly change the recent power dynamic; Senate Republicans often thwarted the last two Democratic governors. 
 Mr. Smith pledged to overhaul the way the Senate is run, making it more open to scrutiny, and to work closely with the governor. But he has differed with Mr. Paterson in some areas, calling for far deeper cuts to the state work force and for more consolidation of state agencies and authorities than the governor has envisioned. 
 The governor, who is legally blind, spent 60 hours memorizing his speech, which lasted about an hour -- longer than he usually speaks. The speech was interspersed with examples of his trademark buoyant humor and with poetry -- he recited ''Opportunity'' by Edward Rowland Sill, which grandiosely muses about a wounded prince who makes the most of a broken sword he discovers on a battlefield. 
 Mr. Paterson also telegraphed the grim reality that he and other Democrats now face. 
 ''The state of the state is perilous,'' he said, adding that ''our economy is damaged'' and ''our confidence is shaken.'' 
 Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the Assembly and a Manhattan Democrat, said after the address that ''there is no way to sugarcoat'' the condition of the state. 
 ''Inevitably, there will be fewer resources for government programs that governors can count on, and some of our goals that we have been working for, and we have sponsored as individual legislators, as a house, and collectively as a state, will have to be delayed,'' he added. 
 As Mr. Paterson began his speech in the lofty chamber of the State Assembly just after 1 p.m., thousands of protesters from labor unions were gathered on the Capitol's eastern steps, wearing union-issued yellow or blue ski caps against the cold. Speaker after speaker criticized Mr. Paterson for proposing to take back portions of raises that were granted to state workers last year, and for refusing to raise taxes on the wealthy to help balance the state budget. 
 They raised signs advising ''Cut the Waste, Not the Workers'' and, in one case, ''Sell the Rug'' -- a reference to reports that in July the state bought several antique rugs for the Executive Mansion, at a cost of nearly $40,000.
 ''Hey hey, ho ho, Paterson's budget has got to go,'' shouted Kenneth Brynien, the president of the Public Employees Federation and one of the rally's speakers.
 With that, someone cued up the Twisted Sister anthem ''We're Not Gonna Take It,'' which blasted over the loudspeakers and echoed around the plaza.
 The day was a turning point for Republicans, who have now been almost entirely marginalized -- almost, because they will probably hold 30 of the 62 seats in the Senate, pending the outcome of a closely contested race in Queens, and will still be needed on a great number of contentious votes. 
 Dean G. Skelos, a Long Island Republican and the outgoing majority leader, opened his remarks during a press conference with praise for Mr. Paterson's ability to deliver a speech from memory, a skill that the governor has used before to wow audiences.
 ''He makes us reflect on the incredible ability that he has had to overcome his challenges to deliver a speech, without a teleprompter, for close to an hour, from memory,'' Mr. Skelos said.
 But he seemed less satisfied with the speech's contents. 
 Asked if there was anything in the address that concerned him, Mr. Skelos replied, somewhat archly, ''I learned an awful lot about child obesity in the governor's speech.''
 He also said that Mr. Paterson -- who has devoted a majority of his public statements in recent months to the state's fiscal crisis -- had missed an opportunity to ''maybe rally the Legislature a little bit more,'' as well as the public at large, about the state's budget problems. 
 Still, there was some praise for the governor's anti-obesity initiatives. 
 Dr. Michael H. Rosenberg, president of The Medical Society of the State of New York, said, ''The epidemic of childhood obesity must be contained.'' David Kirchhoff, the president and chief executive of Weight Watchers International, said he applauded the governor's ''recognition of the importance of creating a healthy environment for children in the home, in restaurants and in schools.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson on Wednesday delivered his first State of the State address. It took him 60 hours to memorize it and about an hour to present it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); RESTAURANTS (74%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); OBESITY (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); OILS & FATS (69%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); ENERGY DEMAND (69%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); STUDENT LOANS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



253 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Fashion's One-Woman Bailout?

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
TO the laundry list of global woes the Obama administration is expected to set right, starting Jan. 20, one can probably add the quagmire of American fashion. True, it will have to wait in line behind the hemorrhaging economy and the situations in Gaza, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq and Pakistan. True, too, it will scarcely be a top-of-mind concern for the president himself. 
 But the scope of responsibility in politics these days extends to family members, and the messes are now so numerous that by the time Barack Obama sets foot in the White House, everyone in his entourage will have to grab a mop. 
 That includes the first lady, who throughout the campaign demonstrated not just that she understood the power of clothes to transmit a message, but a readiness to adjust that message as the need arose. 
 Michelle Obama was not alone in that; Cindy McCain notably tweaked her image as the campaign ground along, softening her appearance to seem more populist and less like a member of the rules committee at an exclusive country club. 
 Yet Mrs. Obama did something bolder on the campaign trail and, in a sense, less expected. With flashcard clarity, she signaled an interest both in looking stylish and also in advancing the cause of American fashion and those who design and make it. She wore off-the-rack stuff from J. Crew and, at times controversially, designs by fashion darlings like Isabel Toledo, Thakoon Panichgul and Narciso Rodriguez. She brought to the campaign a sophisticated approach to high-low dressing, a determination to adapt designers' work to suit herself -- adding jewelry or sweaters or wearing flat shoes with sheaths or even altering dressmaking details -- as well as a forthright conviction that it is the woman who should wear the clothes and not the other way around.
 Insignificant as this may seem in the larger scheme of things, it is less so when one considers the distressing state in which American fashion has found itself lately, with both chain and department stores shutting their doors, consumers confidence at its lowest level in decades and manufacturers struggling to remain afloat in what, as May Chen, the international vice president of the union group Unite Here, explained, ''has always been a very credit-sensitive industry.''
 Hamish Bowles, the Vogue editor who was curator of ''Jacqueline Kennedy: The White House Years,'' a 2001 show of Kennedy's style at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said of Mrs. Obama, ''My perception is that she's already had an extremely potent effect'' on the business. 
 ''Just looking at the designers she's been drawn to, you can see she's shown astute sartorial judgment,'' Mr. Bowles said. What she has also made clear in her choices, he added, is ''that thoughtful and intelligent American designers are perfectly capable of creating clothes that have an impact on the world stage.''
 The key word in that statement is ''American,'' a fact not lost on the retailers burdened in recent years by the weakened purchasing power of the dollar in Europe, where most designer fashion originates, and by the decision American consumers seem to have made to shop in their closets as they wait out the recession.
 ''There is something timely about celebrating American fashion and American designers,'' said Stephanie Solomon, the fashion director of Bloomingdale's, although that ''something'' may be largely a function of the $5,000 price tag on a typical imported dress from Lanvin.
 ''Mrs. Obama is, first of all, very elegant and has wonderful taste,'' Ms. Solomon said. ''But she also recognizes the value of beautiful dresses and not big prices. She dresses like taste doesn't necessarily have to do with brand or status, but with what looks well on your body and makes you look glamorous, bottom line.'' And that, she added, is ''very refreshing and appropriate for this period.''
 American fashion, said Steven Kolb, the executive director of the Council of Fashion Designers of America, like the American automobile and banking industries, is ''at a crossroads'' in dire need of some kind of boost. Reviving a faltering homegrown industry may seem like a lot to expect of one woman, however highly placed. Yet, whether or not she likes it -- or has any particular interest in fashion at all -- the first lady has traditionally been expected to use her position to help promote American goods.
 ''What the first lady wears has a lot of effect on the industry, absolutely,'' said Arnold Scaasi, who began designing clothes for the wives of American presidents during the term of Dwight D. Eisenhower. The first lady, Mr. Scaasi said, ''is seen every day in some form of media, and what she looks like is copied by other women.'' 
 Even Mamie Eisenhower managed to inspire followers with her goofy and pastel matron style. Although Mrs. Eisenhower probably never set off a shopping frenzy, as happened after Mrs. Obama wore a $148 dress from the label White House Black Market on ''The View,'' she had an effect. 
 ''Mamie wore bangs because she had a very high forehead,'' Mr. Scaasi explained. ''But then hairdressers everywhere told me that women were saying, 'I want my hair just like Mamie's.' '' When George H. W. Bush was president, he said, ''Barbara Bush made a statement by having gray hair, and suddenly gray-haired grandmothers were chic.'' 
 When Mrs. Obama's husband takes office, she will be roughly two decades younger than Mrs. Bush was on the day her husband was sworn in. Three days before the inauguration, Mrs. Obama will turn 45. Yet like her husband she conveys a more youthful impression, and her vital appearance has a lot do with her particular appeal to the fashion industry. 
 ''She's like 25 years younger than the last few first ladies, and her age opens her up to a more youthful approach,'' the designer Anna Sui said. ''I loved her choice of Narciso,'' she added, referring to the designer Narciso Rodriguez, whose dress Mrs. Obama wore, in a version she adapted from the runway original and customized with a cardigan sweater, on election night. (That choice set off living room debates across the land over whether it flattered Mrs. Obama or not.) 
 ''She could potentially do what Jackie Kennedy did, bring about a new awareness and a fresh outlook, just by not being so intentionally 'first lady,' by mixing designer things with off the rack,'' Ms. Sui said. ''She can give a big boost to the American fashion industry -- and we need all the help we can get.''
 If one thinks about it, said Thakoon Panichgul, a gifted industry favorite whose name entered the mainstream after Mrs. Obama wore one of his short-sleeved print dresses on the final night of the Democratic Convention, Mrs. Obama does not ''dress so young, exactly, and yet it's young because it feels fresh.''
 He continued: ''She'll wear a sheath with flats and not pumps. That's not, quote unquote, appropriate, and people perceive that first ladies should be appropriate. She has the chutzpah to put it out there regardless of what anybody says.''
 If in Mr. Panichgul's view it is Mrs. Obama's casual yet savvy approach to fashion that makes her compelling to watch, for other observers there is something deeper in play. 
 ''Actually, her taste is very conservative, kind of jock-preppy, a version of a safe American WASP way of dressing,'' said Andrew Bolton, curator of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. ''But what is truly compelling about her is her body. She has this athletic, commanding and confident presence that is very American.'' She may look great in a shift dress, he said, ''but her body is so strong that I end up forgetting what she's wearing much of the time.'' 
 The potential effect Mrs. Obama's physical and intellectual confidence can have on fashion, the designer Diane Von Furstenberg, president of the council of fashion designers, said in an e-mail message from London, is to promote ''individuality'' at a time when fashion is casting about for ways to replace the designer cultism it so recently enshrined. It does not seem insignificant, either, that Mrs. Obama expresses her pleasure in following fashion without worrying that to do so automatically compromises her seriousness. 
 ''The way Michelle Obama dresses is not her stimulus package to the fashion industry,'' said Mr. Kolb of the designers' council. ''It's how she is. I think about my sister who lives in New Jersey and is a teacher, and about the women she works with, and how they can look at Michelle Obama and not have to pretend to be that woman, that working mother with kids who knows the big designer names but also shops at J. Crew and the Gap. She's who they are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SUITING HERSELF: On the campaign trail Michelle Obama signaled an interest in both looking stylish and advancing the cause of American fashion by mixing offthe- rack items from stores like J. Crew with high-end pieces from designers like Thakoon Panichgul (top, center).(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLOCKWISE FROM ABOVE: DOUG MILLS
OZIER MUHAMMAD
AND DAMON WINTER, ALL OF THE NEW YORK TIMES
DARREN McCOLLESTER/GETTY IMAGES
RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
RICK WILKING/REUTERS/CORBIS)
LADIES FIRST: From left: Mamie Eisenhower started a bangs trend
Jacqueline Kennedy had a youthful look
Nancy Reagan wore couture
and Barbara Bush was grandmotherchic. Michelle Obama, top, mixes glamour and athleticism.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FROM LEFT: UPI TELEPHOTO
CBS PHOTO ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES
DIANA WALKER/TIME LIFE PICTURES/GETTY IMAGES
 CONSOLIDATED NEWS PICTURES/ GETTY IMAGES. TOP: MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); READY TO WEAR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); RETAILERS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); CINDY MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



254 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: A Hollywood Classic Enjoys a Revival

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
THE Frederic Fekkai salon on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan was bustling two weeks ago as patrons sipped Champagne and chattered, waiting to have their frizzy locks shaped into coiffed 'dos. As often happens this time of year, gossip turned to the Golden Globes, the Academy Awards and what hairstyles would be hot on the red carpet.
 ''Hair will be simple, sexy,'' said Seiji Kitazato, the salon's creative director, as he coaxed a flip out of the tangled mop atop the woman seated in his chair. ''Gentle curves, very old Hollywood. But updated this year, so it's a little messy.''
 As the economy has taken a turn, so too has the public's tolerance for extravagant display. And this year stylists expect celebrities to take their cues from stars popular during the golden age of Hollywood, edging toward classic looks and away from any trend that smacks of ostentatious consumerism. 
 Stylists agreed that curls will frame necklines, replacing jewel-crusted chandelier earrings, as the newest fashion accessory. Kohl-ringed eyes, like those peering beneath the Bond girl Eva Green's bouffant at the 2007 Academy Awards, will be replaced by softer, smoky colors. And if anyone is wearing handmade mink eyelashes such as those promoted by Jennifer Lopez in recent years, it is likely they won't be bragging about them.
 ''Who is going to want to read about an actress wearing $500 false eyelashes when some people can't make their mortgage payments?'' asked Pati Dubroff, a makeup artist who styles Gwyneth Paltrow and Naomi Watts. ''No one is going to be pushing the envelope. It's going to be safe and simple, and I don't think there is anything wrong with that.''
 Such restraint in deference to economic turmoil or, for example, the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, is not without precedent. Hollywood is hard-pressed to curb its overindulgent ways, but has proved it can tone down the pageantry when it wants. Five months after the 9/11 attacks, for example, Nicole Kidman appeared on the red carpet at the Academy Awards with elegant subdued waves while Sandra Bullock and Julia Roberts swept their hair up in a helmet of tight curls. Those styles are not unlike what stylists predict fashion watchers will see at the coming awards shows.
 Unlike 9/11, which prompted organizers of the Academy Awards to cancel red carpet festivities, a longer-lasting economic pall over the industry will linger, perhaps for years. Sally Hershberger, a top celebrity hairstylist who commands as much as $800 for a cut at her New York salon, said she expected beauty trends to hark back to classic styles that saw their birth in the Depression, and reached an apex in the 1940s when Veronica Lake and Lauren Bacall became fashion icons. In the 1950s, the porcelain-skinned Grace Kelly and her remote elegance reigned onscreen.
 Recently Ms. Hershberger said the designer team of Badgley Mischka hired her to style Eva Longoria for an advertisement and she chose the coif popularized by Ms. Lake, signature peek-a-boo bangs covering one eye. (Ms. Lake once said of her pin-up popularity: ''I never used cheesecake. I just used my hair.'')
 ''It was more flat and sculpted,'' said Ms. Hershberger of Ms. Longoria's curls. ''Nothing high on top, plus lots of finger waves. That always looks cool.''
 Of course, women wore hats in the 1930s and '40s, which is why hair was shaped to their heads. Actresses, too, sought to evoke a sultry innocence, something that is absent in this era when cover photos of pouty-lipped, nearly naked actresses populate magazine racks. 
 To modernize the look, Ms. Hershberger and others who are styling stars for the awards shows said curls would be structured, but not as tightly wound as earlier periods. Think Cybill Shepherd from the 1971 hit ''The Last Picture Show,'' which depicted life in a small Texas town in the 1950s. Or January Jones as Betty Draper on ''Mad Men,'' a cable series about advertising executives in the late '50s and early 1960s, said Ms. Hershberger. Ms. Jones manages to impart a chilly allure reminiscent of Grace Kelly.
 One thing this year is definitely out: the Malibu Barbie ropy strands still so popular among younger celebrities. ''Fashion has moved on,'' said Annabelle Tollman, a stylist who works with Scarlett Johansson. ''The super tan sexy look, with the loose hair and shimmering makeup, that's done. It doesn't feel right. It looks trampy and unsexy these days. It's not what I would be pushing.''
 For the face, understated but tasteful is key. ''You don't have to wear sackcloth and ashes,'' Ms. Tollman added. ''You don't have to stop enjoying yourself.'' What that means is matte lips, perhaps red -- shiny glosses will be tucked away in the makeup drawer this year -- and skin that is nude, softened with pink blush on the cheeks. That is what Reese Witherspoon chose for the Country Music Association awards in November, said Angela Levin, a makeup stylist who is best known for working with Jennifer Aniston.
 ''We decided to keep her makeup simple and just give her red lips,'' she said. ''And no heavy black. If I were to give it a name, I would say 'romantic.' I can only imagine because that is what I am in the mood for. In a weird way, the people who go to these things are beautiful by nature anyway. You don't really need to do that much.''
 So much so, she said, that she too is cutting down on what cosmetics she will use at the Golden Globes and other shows. (She has a list of candidates to style, but will do only two.) ''I carry a small cosmetics store,'' she said. ''But you know what? I don't need all that. I find myself saying, 'I can do an eye with two shadows.' I'm no longer going to worry about using 15 products. You can do a face with four colors.''
 For those actresses, though, who are looking for a more dramatic look, stylists are recommending smoky eye shadows and liners -- gray, purple and brown, but no black. The mink eyelashes won't fly, either. But even with talk of Hollywood sirens toning it down a bit, there is one thing few are likely to completely give up despite the natural trend: Botox and other injections for wrinkles.
 Last year several actresses -- among them Priscilla Presley, who performed on ''Dancing With the Stars'' -- were criticized for extensively remodeling their faces with too much surgery and cosmetic fillers. In November, after noticing that her cheeks looked unnaturally full, Lisa Rinna admitted that she had been using too much Juvederm. 
 ''Hollywood is getting a lot of flack -- there is a black cloud over people,'' said Ms. Levin, adding that this year ''you won't see lots of puffy lips.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHAT YOU WON'T SEE: The heavy eye makeup of Eva Green, left, and the Malibu Barbie look of Lindsay Lohan are out.
INSPIRATION FROM THE PAST: Clockwise from top, Veronica Lake, Lauren Bacall, Cybill Shepherd and Grace Kelly. Expect sculpted curls, but not as tightly wound as in past years.
 WHAT YOU WILL SEE: Stylists cite the hair and makeup of Reese Witherspoon, below left, and Nicole Kidman.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANK MICELOTTA/GETTY IMAGES (REESE WITHERSPOON), FRED PROUSER/REUTERS (NICOLE KIDMAN), SILVER SCREEN COLLECTION/HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES (GRACE KELLY), JOHN KOBAL FOUNDATION/GETTY IMAGE (VERONICA LAKE), WARNER BROTHERS (LAUREN BACALL), COLUMBIA PICTURES (CYBILL SHEPHERD), TIMOTHY A. CLARY/ AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES (EVA GREEN), FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES (LINDSAY LOHAN)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); TERRORISM (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%)

PERSON: NICOLE KIDMAN (76%); LINDSAY LOHAN (71%); REESE WITHERSPOON (71%); SANDRA BULLOCK (54%); GWYNETH PALTROW (54%); JULIA ROBERTS (54%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



255 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Labor Calls For Unity After Years Of Division

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The presidents of 12 of the nation's largest labor unions called Wednesday for reuniting the American labor movement, which split apart three and a half years ago when seven unions left the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and formed a rival federation.
 The union presidents issued their joint call after the transition team for President-elect Barack Obama signaled that it would prefer dealing with a united movement, rather than a fractured one that often had two competing voices. 
 David E. Bonior, a member of Mr. Obama's economic transition team who withdrew from consideration as labor secretary, helped arrange and oversee a meeting of the union presidents on Wednesday in Washington.
 The leaders are hoping, by April 15, to approve a plan to reunify, one union official said. But some officials said they might fail to reach agreement. 
 Mr. Bonior, a former House majority whip, said he would organize meetings with labor leaders over the next few weeks in the hope of hammering out details about what form a reunified labor federation would take.
 The 12 union presidents issued a statement, saying: ''The goal of the meeting is to create a unified labor movement that can speak and act nationally on the critical issues facing working Americans. While we represent the largest labor unions, we recognize that unity requires broad participation.''
 The call for reunification was something of an about-face for the presidents of the Service Employees International Union, the Teamsters and several other unions that quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O., asserting that the federation was stodgy and had not done enough to reverse organized labor's long decline. The breakaway unions formed a federation called Change to Win.
 ''There was a real sense of commitment to unifying our movement again,'' Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said Wednesday. ''It was clear that many of us felt that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, and we really want to do things to help American workers get their rightful place in society.''
 To bring about reunification, several labor leaders have called for revamping and modernizing the A.F.L.-C.I.O., traditionally the nation's main federation, currently with 56 member unions. But several labor leaders have called for replacing the A.F.L.-C.I.O. with a new, more dynamic group. 
 There was general agreement that any future federation should focus on political and legislative matters, while also serving to encourage individual unions to do more to organize workers.
 The leaders of several breakaway unions have called for changing the name of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. because they had vowed never to return to the same federation. 
 But many A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials argue that it would be silly to alter the name of such a well-known organization and replace it with a name that few Americans are familiar with.
 Labor officials said they did not discuss on Wednesday who would succeed John J. Sweeney, 74, who is scheduled to step down this year after heading the A.F.L.-C.I.O. for 13 years.
 Richard Trumka, the federation's secretary-treasurer and former president of the United Mine Workers, has been lobbying among union presidents to succeed Mr. Sweeney. But some union leaders, especially those in the rival labor federation, say they want a fresh voice leading organized labor.
 The reorganizing proposals that unions president have floated in recent days include a rotating presidency for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. or its successor federation, with the presidents of individual unions serving two-year terms as head of the parent federation.
 One A.F.L.-C.I.O. official described that plan this way: ''The dukes want to replace the king.''
 But many officials oppose a rotating presidency, saying the parent federation needs a strong, visible president who, by dint of serving for several years, is recognized by Congress and the news media as the undisputed voice for labor.
 Several presidents have also called for creating a strong executive director's position, partly in the hope that the parent federation would have two strong voices rather than one. 
 Those at Wednesday's meeting included Andy Stern, president of the Service Employees union, who led the walkout in 2005; as well as the presidents of the Teamsters, the United Steelworkers, United Auto Workers, and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. 
 One somewhat surprising attendee was Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association, which, with 3.2 million members, is the nation's largest labor union, but has traditionally remained outside any larger labor federations.
 Officials from several Change to Win unions have said in recent months that they were seeing little advantage in maintaining a separate labor federation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); APPROVALS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



256 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Paulson Sees Changes For Freddie and Fannie

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said on Wednesday that allowing the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to return to their old operating ways was not an option. 
 Congress and the next administration must decide the proper role government should play in supporting home ownership in light of the severe economic costs imposed by the bursting of the housing bubble, Mr. Paulson said.
 The government took control of Fannie and Freddie in September, placing them in conservatorship. Mr. Paulson offered thoughts on a variety of possible solutions that could follow that move, but did not endorse any.
 One option would be to remove all direct and indirect government support and privatize the companies by breaking them up and selling them. Drawbacks to that approach included most likely a low rate of return to potential investors, Mr. Paulson said in a speech to the Economic Club of Washington.
 ''I am skeptical that a 'break it up and privatize it' option will prove to be a robust or even viable model of any substantial scale without some sort of government support or protection,'' he said.
 Mr. Paulson also raised the possibility of creating a public utility type of company that would guarantee mortgage credit.
 Under that plan, Congress would replace Fannie and Freddie with one or two private sector entities that would buy and securitize mortgages with a credit guarantee backed by the federal government. The new companies would be privately owned but governed by a commission that would set a target range for a rate of return, he said.
 Such a proposal would address the inherent conflicts between private ownership and public purpose that must be resolved to avoid the potential for another crisis in mortgage financing, Mr. Paulson said.
 He said officials had a responsibility to begin work on a long-term structure that avoided the dangerous mix of policy and market distortions created by the flawed government-sponsored enterprise model.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee about half of the $10.6 trillion in outstanding home loan debt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said Wednesday that restoring Fannie and Freddie to their former status was not an option. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); SECURITIZATION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



257 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA PROMISES BID TO OVERHAUL RETIREE SPENDING

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JOHN HARWOOD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama said Wednesday that overhauling Social Security and Medicare would be ''a central part'' of his administration's efforts to contain federal spending, signaling for the first time that he would wade into the thorny politics of entitlement programs.
 As the Congressional Budget Office projected a record $1.2 trillion budget deficit for this year even before the costs of the nearly $800 billion economic stimulus package being taken up by the House and the Senate, Mr. Obama stepped up his effort to reassure lawmakers and the financial markets that he plans a vigorous effort to keep the government's finances from deteriorating further. 
 Speaking at a news conference in Washington, he provided no details of his approach to rein in Social Security and Medicare, which are projected to consume a growing share of government spending as the baby boom generation ages into retirement over the next two decades. But he said he would have more to say about the issue when he unveiled a budget next month.
 Should he follow through with a serious effort to cut back the rates of growth of the two programs, he would be opening up a potentially risky battle that neither party has shown much stomach for. The programs have proved almost sacrosanct in political terms, even as they threaten to grow so large as to be unsustainable in the long run. President Bush failed in his effort to overhaul Social Security, and Medicare only grew larger during his administration with the addition of prescription drug coverage for retirees.
 Mr. Obama also promised a more intensive effort to weed inefficient and bloated programs out of the federal budget in the short run, creating a White House position to ''scour this budget, line by line, eliminating what we don't need, or what doesn't work, and improving the things that do.'' He named Nancy Killefer to the post, called chief performance officer.
 ''If we do nothing,'' Mr. Obama said, ''then we will continue to see red ink as far as the eye can see.''
 In an interview later in the day with CNBC and The New York Times, Mr. Obama suggested that he would hold his economic stimulus proposal to the low end of the amounts that economists think will be necessary because it was likely to grow in size as it moved through Congress. He said that he intended to propose a broad overhaul of financial regulation by April, and that he was working with Congressional leaders on his promised plan to limit foreclosures in the wake of the mortgage crisis.
 ''We've got to prevent the continuing deterioration of the housing market,'' he said.
 Mr. Obama met privately on Wednesday with Mr. Bush, then had lunch at the White House with Mr. Bush and the three living ex-presidents, Jimmy Carter, George Bush and Bill Clinton. In the interview, Mr. Obama said the other presidents had offered him good advice about the job: ''How do you make sure that you get good information?'' he said. ''How do you make sure that people aren't just telling you what you want to hear?''
 The bad fiscal news underscored how, on his first week in Washington since the election, Mr. Obama is being challenged by a broad array of problems, some inherited and some a result of his own missteps, a departure from a transition that until now had been praised as orderly and swift.
 The fighting between Israelis and Palestinians will present him with a complex foreign policy challenge immediately upon taking office. 
 The week opened with the first casualty among Mr. Obama's cabinet appointments, as Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico withdrew as his choice for commerce secretary amid questions about whether he had been adequately vetted. Then Mr. Obama had to apologize to Senate leaders for not informing them of his choice to lead the Central Intelligence Agency, Leon E. Panetta. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Obama backed away from his opposition to seating Roland W. Burris as his successor in the Senate, after initially saying that Mr. Burris was unacceptable because he had been chosen by Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois, who has been accused of trying to sell the seat. These events are testing the resilience of Mr. Obama's honeymoon, the depth of public support for him and how much people are willing to move beyond the familiar partisan rancor because of the gravity of the crises when he assumes power. 
 ''When you hit a bump, it may not be obvious at the time whether it's a mountain or a molehill, but they are rarely mountains,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. ''There are going to be things that go better than other things. The question is, Are we moving in the right direction? The answer is yes.''
 The dustup over Mr. Obama's selection of Mr. Panetta to lead the C.I.A. appeared to cool Wednesday. Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat and incoming chairwoman of the Select Committee on Intelligence, dropped her criticism, saying, ''I believe all systems are go.''
 Mr. Obama also was poised to name Cass R. Sunstein, an American legal scholar, to an existing White House post as the administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. A transition official said late Wednesday that Mr. Sunstein would oversee government regulations and devise new approaches for government efficiencies. 
 For now, Mr. Obama is seeking to keep the spotlight focused on the economic recovery plan he is urging Congress to pass. He is set to offer a campaignlike address explaining the proposal on Thursday at George Mason University in Virginia, his first speech since winning the election. In the interview, he offered some soothing words to Republicans and the financial markets about his ideological approach, saying it was only the scale and urgency of the economic crisis that led him to support a huge stimulus plan.
 ''I'm not out to increase the size of the government long- term,'' he said. ''My preference would be that the private sector was doing this all on their own.''
 On Capitol Hill, some Republicans warned that the deficit would be even larger than the Congressional Budget Office has projected, perhaps as much as $1.8 trillion once additional spending bills are approved. 
 Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee, and his House counterpart, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, said the extensive borrowing by the government could be a disaster if Congressional Democrats and the new Obama administration did not also work on long-term solutions including changes to Social Security and Medicare. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Past, present and future presidents in the Oval Office on Wednesday: George Bush, Barack Obama, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); FORECLOSURE (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); NANCY KILLEFER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



258 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: A Crisis Trumps Constraint

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the ranking Democrat and then chairman of the House Budget Committee, Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina accused President Bush for eight years of recklessly running up huge fiscal deficits.
 But by noon on Wednesday, after listening for two hours as economists explained why it was crucial to run a large deficit -- one that would triple the previous record and vault far above $1 trillion -- Mr. Spratt looked shell-shocked. 
 Lingering in his chair as the cavernous hearing room emptied, he stared into the distance and gave vent to his concerns.
 ''The thing I wanted to ask,'' he said, ''was if there was some limit which we should be wary of? Is there some limit in terms of how much borrowing and debt creation we should take on?'' 
 For the moment, the answer is no. The Congressional Budget Office predicted on Wednesday that the federal deficit would balloon to $1.2 trillion this year -- even before Democrats pass an economic stimulus bill that could cost an additional $1 trillion spread over this year and next.
 To a degree that would have been unimaginable two years ago, economists and politicians from across the political spectrum have put aside calls for fiscal restraint and decided that Congress should spend whatever it takes to rescue the economy. 
 A startling range of name-brand economists -- Martin Feldstein of Harvard and a top adviser to Republican presidents; Mark Zandi of Moody'sEconomy.com and a former adviser to Senator John McCain's presidential campaign; and Robert B. Reich, secretary of labor under President Clinton -- urged Democratic lawmakers on Wednesday to think more boldly than ever before.
 ''It pains me to say that because I am a fiscal conservative who dislikes budget deficits and increases in government spending,'' Mr. Feldstein told the lawmakers. But he said, ''Reviving the economy requires major fiscal stimulus from tax cuts and increased government spending.''
 Economists and politicians alike admit they are in uncharted territory. They are looking at an economic downturn far worse than any in the past half-century -- and nobody knows how deep it will prove to be. ''We have never been here before,'' Mr. Reich said. ''If anybody tells you they know exactly what to do, don't believe them.''
 Despite the consensus on the need for a mega-stimulus package, the sheer size of the projected budget gap is likely to revive age-old tensions between short-term goals like an economic recovery and long-term goals like reining in the soaring cost of the entitlement programs Social Security and Medicare. 
 ''This is one of the worst budget forecasts I have seen in my lifetime,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. 
 But Mr. Conrad said the forecast merely highlighted the urgency of enacting a stimulus program to prevent the recession from getting worse.
 ''We must act quickly to pass an economic recovery package that will create jobs and jump-start economic growth,'' he said. ''While it is understandable that this package will worsen our near-term budget picture, we should not enact provisions that will exacerbate our long-term deficits and debt.''
 The good news is that, for the moment, there is plenty of cheap money available for the Treasury to borrow because investors around the world view Treasury bills and bonds as a haven from the turmoil in financial markets.
 But over time, especially as global confidence revives and demand for credit climbs, the government's huge appetite for borrowing could drive up interest rates. The situation could worsen if countries like China, which has soaked up vast amounts of American debt, become more reluctant to do so in the future.
 Those worries are likely to embolden budget hawks -- like the Blue Dog Democrats who make up a large bloc of votes within the House Democratic caucus -- to push aggressively for tough new versions of the pay-as-you-go rules that imposed tight constraints on spending in the 1990s.
 President-elect Barack Obama has said he wants to reform the budget process and tighten discipline, but a revival or even expansion of prior budget rules could constrain his ability to finance his other goals. Those include expanding health care coverage, investing in ''clean'' energy and ramping up spending on education. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Obama hinted at what could be another, more formidable path toward fiscal discipline: overhauling Social Security and Medicare, which are the fastest-growing parts of the federal budget and the biggest long-run threat to fiscal stability.
 Asked at a news conference if he intended to tackle those programs, Mr. Obama said that ''entitlements will be a part, a central part,'' of his budget discussions and predicted that he would have more to say on the subject by February.
 The budget office said the $1.2 trillion deficit would equal 8.3 percent of gross domestic product, obliterating the previous postwar record of 6 percent, reached in 1983 under President Ronald Reagan.
 If Democrats enact a stimulus program of $1 trillion over two years, which is possible, the deficit this year could widen to about $1.7 trillion or more than 10 percent of gross domestic product.
 The budget office said its grim budget projection stemmed from the severe plunge of the economy, which it predicted would contract 2.2 percent in 2009 and register anemic growth in 2010. The agency predicted that unemployment would climb to more than 9 percent by the end of 2009, up from 6.7 percent in November.
 The economy had already lost 1.9 million jobs in 2008 through November, and that total is certain to jump to well above 2 million on Friday, when the Labor Department reports employment numbers for December. 
 The recession, which officially began in December 2007, has pummeled the federal budget by both reducing tax revenue and increasing costs for unemployment benefits, food stamps and the growing number of corporate bailouts.
 The budget office estimated that tax revenue would sink by $166 billion this year, a 6.6 percent decline. 
 But one reason that the deficit estimate was higher than those of outside analysts was that it added in hundreds of billions of dollars in spending tied to the government's existing bailout programs, which the Bush administration has thus far treated as ''investments'' it would recoup rather than ''spending'' or ''costs'' that are down the drain.
 For example, the budget office estimated that the present-value cost of the Treasury Department's $700 billion bailout program for financial institutions -- known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program -- would be $180 billion in 2009. The agency said that estimate was based on its judgment of the program's risks and probable losses over time.
 In addition, the budget office said it included all the money used in propping up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage finance companies that the Treasury seized in September and put into a conservatorship. Those costs would add $240 billion to the deficit in 2009. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: GROWING RED INK: According to new projections from the Congressional Budget Office, the federal budget deficit will be about $1.2 trillion in the current fiscal year. (Source: Congressional Budget Office) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); MEDICARE (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TAX LAW (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%)

PERSON: JOHN SPRATT (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); KENT CONRAD (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



259 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Moving Forward in Hard Times

 BODY:
Over the last few months, Gov. David Paterson of New York has been handing out gloomier and gloomier news. Confronted with a huge budget deficit and an economy getting shakier by the day, he has announced plans to slash or at least defer almost everybody's favorite state program. But on Wednesday, in his first State of the State address since taking over in March from Eliot Spitzer, Governor Paterson talked about things he wanted to do, not undo.
 Though the state of the state is ''perilous,'' he said, this is exactly the wrong time to hunker down and accomplish nothing. He pointedly reminded his audience of fellow lawmakers that New York had done great things in hard times. Construction on the Empire State Building, he noted, began as the nation was sliding into the Great Depression. 
 Mr. Paterson's low-budget wish list is full of compelling new ideas on energy, health care, obesity and other difficult issues. In the past, we would have warned that his biggest problem might be pushing New York's notoriously difficult Legislature to go along. But this year, both legislative chambers are dominated by his fellow Democrats. That should make progress vastly easier, but it also should make it impossible for Democrats to blame Republicans if something does not get done. 
 Like his two immediate predecessors, Mr. Paterson chose to emphasize energy. The most ambitious item on his agenda may be a plan he calls ''45 by 15.'' The state would produce 30 percent of its energy from renewable sources like wind, solar and hydropower by 2015, while achieving a 15 percent reduction in energy consumption in the same time frame by investing in efficiency. 
 These are worthy goals, especially since the plan includes innovative proposals to reward energy companies for saving energy instead of selling more of it. And as part of his plan to revive a sagging economy, Mr. Paterson proposed turning upstate New York's old industrial belt into a national center for creating and producing new hybrid automobile batteries. Today's batteries have limited range and are a stumbling block to widespread acceptance of hybrid cars.
 Mr. Paterson also spoke at length about health care. One important proposal would allow employees to expand private health care coverage to dependents up to age 29, a quick way of providing health coverage for an age group that is notoriously underinsured.
 Given the power of the food and soft-drink lobbies in Albany, Mr. Paterson set himself a daunting challenge by pledging to fight the alarming rate of diabetes, especially among the young. To combat obesity, he would expand statewide some of most successful changes made by Mayor Michael Bloomberg in New York City, including a ban on trans fats and the requirement that chain restaurants post calorie counts. The governor also wants a surcharge on sugary drinks, a statewide ban on junk foods in schools and a better way of getting healthier foods or green markets in poorer areas.
 Mr. Paterson promised to reform the outdated, counterproductive Rockefeller drug laws and provide more loans for college-bound students. Both proposals should be easier to pass in a Democratic-led Legislature. Less easy will be his proposal to cap property taxes, which many lawmakers understandably regard as a popular but flawed idea.
 The most glaring omission was any plan for real political reform. He did not mention the need to change the campaign finance system or the scandalous way legislators draw their own districts. This was a missed opportunity in an otherwise promising summons to confront New York's historic challenges.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); WIND ENERGY (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); CONSUMPTION (72%); OBESITY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (68%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (68%); OILS & FATS (67%); SOFT DRINKS (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (60%); DIABETES (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



260 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: One Measure of a Society Is the State of Its Prisons

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I applaud your Jan. 1 editorial ''Sen. Webb's Call for Prison Reform'' for highlighting a serious problem in our country: the excessive incarceration of nonviolent offenders. 
 While there is no question that society must be protected from dangerous criminals, the majority of our prisoners have been convicted for nonviolent crimes. They serve their sentences -- at great taxpayer expense -- in a negative and often corrosive environment that sometimes does more harm than good. 
 There are less costly and more effective ways to deter nonviolent offenses, and the time to carry them out is now. In the current economic crisis, the American taxpayer suffers when there is excessive incarceration. 
 History will judge America on how it deals with criminal justice issues. Excessive incarceration for nonviolent offenders is not only offensive, dangerous and very expensive, but also outside the realm of civility. Centuries from now our society will be evaluated and the question will be asked: Why was there not a better plan? Ira A. Lipman
 New York, Jan. 5, 2009
 The writer, the founder and chairman of Guardsmark, a security services company, is chairman emeritus, National Council on Crime and Delinquency.
 To the Editor:
 You are correct to endorse Senator Jim Webb's courageous call for a national commission to address criminal justice policy. The proposed commission should address not only the excessive size of our criminal justice system, but also the conditions we allow to exist within our prisons and jails. 
 Additionally, it should focus on the repeal or modification of the Prison Litigation Reform Act, which both limits the powers of federal courts to supervise prison conditions and imposes a series of barriers to prisoners who want to challenge inhumane treatment.
 Because of this law, for example, a female prisoner who is subjected to a strip search for the amusement of male staff members would be unable to seek recompense for her suffering.
 Other provisions of the law result in countless prisoner lawsuits being thrown out for reasons completely unrelated to the merits of the litigation. 
 When even the United Nations' Committee Against Torture suggests that we reform this law, it is time for change. 
 Elizabeth Alexander
 Director 
 A.C.L.U. National Prison Project
 Washington, Jan. 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SENTENCING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); WRITERS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); TORTURE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL ON CRIME & DELINQUENCY (55%)

PERSON: JIM WEBB (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



261 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Arbitron Settles Lawsuit Alleging Bias in Ratings

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Arbitron, the radio ratings company, will overhaul a new measurement system for radio stations under a settlement announced Wednesday with the New York and New Jersey attorney general's offices. 
 The agreement settles a three-month-old lawsuit by the states, after accusations that Arbitron's new ratings system did not adequately account for young black and Hispanic residents, people who do not speak English, and cellphone-only households.
 Owners of minority-oriented radio stations had asserted that Arbitron's estimates of their audience size dropped significantly when the new system, called portable people meters, were introduced in New York, Philadelphia and surrounding regions. A coalition of minority radio broadcasters said that the lower ratings would ''disenfranchise minority communities and have a devastating impact on small businesses.''
 To measure ratings for radio stations, Arbitron recruits a panel of individuals to record their radio listening habits. Arbitron has sought to replace the old diary system with a small device that electronically records the frequencies of stations. Arbitron has said the ratings are more reliable because they do not rely on the memories of participants. People tend to listen to more radio stations than they remember, causing the total audience to be more fragmented. But minority stations have claimed that they are undercounted in the new system, in part because Arbitron has struggled to include representative numbers of young and minority listeners in its sample.
 Under the agreement with the states, Arbitron is required to ''substantially improve'' the methodology for the people meters, the office of the New York attorney general Andrew M. Cuomo said in a statement.
 In addition, Arbitron will pay $260,000 to New York and $130,000 to New Jersey to resolve the suit, pay $100,000 to a trade group associated with minority radio stations, and pay for an advertising campaign supporting minority radio.
 ''With this lawsuit, we sought to address the misrepresentation of a flawed product in the marketplace and its impact on the communities that need the most protection,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a press release. ''This agreement ensures that Arbitron will fairly measure radio listenership in New York and fairly represent New York's diverse radio market.''
 In a statement, the N.A.A.C.P. president, Benjamin T. Jealous, commended Mr. Cuomo for ''fighting against unfairness and discrimination in the radio marketplace.'' Several companies that own urban radio stations also said they welcomed Mr. Cuomo's actions.
 Arbitron said the changes would be made ''within the framework of our continuous improvement program'' for the people meters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (91%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RADIO FORMATS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (92%)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



262 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Daschle to Face Tough Questions on Competition in Health Insurance

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When Tom Daschle shows up for a confirmation hearing on Thursday, senators are likely to grant him all the courtesies due a former Senate majority leader. 
 But that does not mean Mr. Daschle should expect only softball questions. Lawmakers will most likely question him sharply about one of the most contentious aspects of President-elect Barack Obama's domestic agenda: his call for a new public health insurance plan to compete with private insurers.
 No other proposal so clearly defines the political and philosophical differences between Mr. Obama and Republicans, or provokes such deep disagreements. 
 Mr. Daschle, the point man for Mr. Obama's campaign to revamp the health care system, supports the concept of ''a government-run insurance program modeled after Medicare.'' It would, he says, give consumers, especially the uninsured, an alternative to commercial insurance offered by companies like Aetna, Humana and WellPoint. 
 But the proposal is anathema to many insurers, employers and Republicans. They say the government plan would have unfair advantages, like the ability to impose lower fees, and could eventually attract so many customers that private insurers would be driven from the market.
 ''The public plan option is a terrible idea -- one of our top concerns in the health reform debate,'' said James P. Gelfand, senior manager of health policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
 The public plan, as conceived by Mr. Obama, would vie with private insurers to provide better benefits and better customer service at a lower cost. Without such competition, Democrats say, private insurers cannot be expected to control costs much better than they do now.
 Jacob S. Hacker, a professor of political science at the University of California, Berkeley, said the new option was essential to the success of Mr. Obama's effort to rein in costs and make coverage available to all Americans. 
 ''Public insurance has a better track record than private insurance when it comes to reining in costs while preserving access to care,'' Mr. Hacker said. ''The public plan would set a standard against which private plans must compete.'' 
 Jeanne M. Lambrew, an associate professor at the University of Texas who is in line to be deputy director of a new White House Office of Health Reform, asks: ''Why should policy makers give private insurers the exclusive right to cover Americans? If private insurers can better meet our goals for the health system, why object to a level competition with public plans?''
 The idea of a public plan has been endorsed by two Democrats with a decisive say on health legislation: Senator Max Baucus of Montana, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Representative Pete Stark of California, chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health.
 Two of Mr. Obama's rivals for the presidential nomination, John Edwards and Hillary Rodham Clinton, also wanted to give people a choice between private insurers and a public plan modeled after Medicare.
 ''Over time,'' Mr. Edwards said, ''the system may evolve toward a single-payer approach if individuals and businesses prefer the public plan.''
 That is what worries insurers, employers and Republicans. 
 ''Forcing private plans to compete with a public program like Medicare, with its price controls and ability to shift costs to private payers, will inevitably doom true competition and could ultimately lead to a single-payer, government-run health care program,'' said Senator Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, the senior Republican on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, before which Mr. Daschle will testify on Thursday.
 Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, a moderate Republican, shares some of that concern. ''Creation of a government plan is no panacea,'' she said, and ''could disproportionately shift costs from private plans to the public.'' 
 Mr. Gelfand, of the Chamber of Commerce, said: ''People would gravitate to the public plan because it would look cheap. Instead of paying the full cost of care, it would shift costs onto private insurance plans. It's our employees, American workers, who would pay the price.'' 
 In a report to Congress last year, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, an independent federal panel, said Medicare paid doctors 19 percent less than what private insurers paid, on average. For hospitals, the gap was similar.
 Mr. Stark said he did not accept the argument that Medicare was grossly underpaying doctors and hospitals.
 ''Many of the private plans are poorly managed,'' he said. ''They are the General Motors of medical care delivery. Medicare is paying the right amounts. To suggest that a heart surgeon has to make $600,000 or $700,000 a year, as opposed to only $400,000 under Medicare fees, does not get much sympathy from me.''
 Linda J. Blumberg, a health economist at the Urban Institute, said: ''Large insurers do not seem to use their market power to drive hard bargains with health care providers. The presence of a well-run public plan could constrain private spending because private insurers would have to compete on price, in a way they do not often do today.''
 Karen M. Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said the consolidation of the hospital industry in the last seven or eight years had increased the market power of hospitals, thereby reducing the ability of insurers to negotiate discounts.
 Democrats say a public plan could use its purchasing power to secure better value for patients and taxpayers. 
 ''Together with traditional Medicare,'' Mr. Daschle said, ''this new program would have tremendous clout to bargain for the lowest prices from providers and push them to improve the quality of care.''
 Republicans say that Medicare rates, the prices paid for everything from wheelchairs to brain surgery, are set not by negotiation or competition, but by a web of federal laws and regulations. 
 Scott P. Serota, president of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, whose member companies insure one-third of all Americans, said: ''I'm not worried about our ability to compete on a level playing field. I am worried that a public program would have marketplace advantages that make private plans noncompetitive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Daschle would be the point man for a new public health insurance plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (76%); MEDICARE (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); HEALTH CARE (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

COMPANY: WELLPOINT INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); PETE STARK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009



263 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 6010 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE SEDUCTION OF LIGHT,' through March 29. Comparisons may be invidious, but they can also be illuminating. Consider this small, tightly focused exhibition of portraits by the 19th-century American folk artist Ammi Phillips and paintings by the 20th-century Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko. The presentation reveals parallel ways of dealing with surface, color and light. It also reveals two painters who were, each in his own pragmatic yet metaphysically resonant way, distinctly American artists. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
 * ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'TRACES OF THE CALLIGRAPHER: ISLAMIC CALLIGRAPHY IN PRACTICE, CIRCA 1600-1900,' AND 'WRITING THE WORD OF GOD: CALLIGRAPHY AND THE QUR'AN,' through Feb. 8. These side-by-side exhibitions, perfect in size and carefully thought out, approach Islamic calligraphy from two perspectives. The first show is basically a manual in techniques of fine penmanship and luxury book-making, illustrated by superb examples of tools of the trade and finished products. The second is an array of hand-written Koran pages for total-immersion contemplation. Gorgeous. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)
 BARD GRADUATE CENTER: 'ENGLISH EMBROIDERY FROM THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, 1580-1700,' through April 12. At once revelatory and great fun, this exhibition examines one of the world's most beloved and ancient art forms/crafts/hobbies during one of its golden ages, a time that included mind-boggling turmoil. Given the beheadings, regime changes and warring ethnic and religious factions -- outlined in the show's exemplary catalog -- it is a miracle that anybody had time for anything, much less great needlework. But it was a leading indicator of wealth and status, a means of decoration, a form of moral instruction and a sign of wifely devotion. Glass beads, pearls, raised work, applique and striped ribbons mix with an intimidating array of stitches for effects that are never less than stunning. Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, bgc.bard.edu. (Roberta Smith)
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'STREET ART STREET LIFE: FROM THE 1950S TO NOW,' through Jan. 25. If to you ''street life'' means noise-lights-action, you'll find this show a surprise. With its immaculate, stripped-down installation, the exhibition is clearly devoted not to recreating the feel of art on the street, but to recording it, from Robert Frank's unvarnished photographic views of post-World War II America to digital montages by Fatimah Tuggar uniting today's streets of New York and Lagos, Nigeria. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'HOUSE PROUD: 19TH-CENTURY WATERCOLOR INTERIORS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION,' through Jan. 25. The 70 or so jewel-like renderings of rooms and their furnishings here are delightful, mordantly signifying artifacts. They track the domestic effects of exoticism and nostalgia (chinoiserie, Gothic Revival); uncover glimmers of modernity (Biedermeier, smaller rooms); and witness the birth of the contemporary genre known as shelter porn. Accompanied by relevant examples of furniture, decorative objects and books, they also reveal that rooms seen whole, with light and space as well as decor carefully depicted, are among painting's most appealing subjects. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Smith)
 * FRICK COLLECTION: 'ANDREA RICCIO: RENAISSANCE MASTER OF BRONZE,' through Jan. 18. Scholars say that Andrea Riccio was one of the greatest sculptors of the Italian Renaissance. Cast in dark bronze and resembling Roman antiquities, Riccio's small-scale statuettes, reliefs and oil lamps seem unremarkably modest at first. But let your eyes adjust to the formal subtlety, expressive urgency and almost supernatural aliveness of his art, and you will fall in love. Sculpture does not get much better than this. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'CHAGALL AND THE ARTISTS OF THE RUSSIAN JEWISH THEATER, 1919-1949,' through March 22. A fascinating tale of two vanguard theater companies that flourished in Moscow for a few years after the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 is told by this big, walk-in scrapbook of a show presenting more than 200 pieces of art and ephemera. Exploring the histories of the Hebrew-speaking Habima theater and the Yiddish-speaking Moscow State Yiddish Theater, the exhibition includes drawings, paintings, photographs, posters, sheet music, costumes and clips from vintage films. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ART AND LOVE IN RENAISSANCE ITALY,' through Feb. 16. With the most cherished of all human emotions as its central theme, this exhibition examines 14th- and 15th-century marriage rituals in Italy in terms of the many sumptuous objects and artworks they generated. The show includes ceramics, paintings, a cradle, wedding portraits and childbirth trays. Its many images mix happy endings and cautionary tales (some of the most gruesome intended for bridal chambers). Profane love is acknowledged with a choice display of erotica. The commodification and adoration of women run on parallel tracks, right up to and including two majestic paintings by Titian. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE MET: 'BEYOND BABYLON: ART, TRADE, AND DIPLOMACY IN THE SECOND MILLENNIUM B.C.,' through March 15. This big, prescient, concentration-taxing exhibition is the latest in the Met's line of investigative archaeological shows, and it is not geared to quick-take viewing. Many of the objects are small and intimate; made to be worn, handled and easily transported. A proliferation of wall texts gives the show the pace of a lavishly illustrated book. Patient viewing is rewarded by a fascinating story of a proto-global world in formation nearly 4,000 years ago. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'CALDER JEWELRY,' through March 1. Concurrent with the Whitney Museum's ''Alexander Calder: The Paris Years,'' this exhibition is the first museum show to focus on that American sculptor's fanciful jewelry. The works in ''Calder Jewelry'' are made of the same materials as his wire sculptures -- mostly brass and steel, with bits of ceramic, wood and glass -- and are just as self-consciously clever. Among the highlights are oversize necklaces with flared and barbed shoulders, pendulous earrings worn by Peggy Guggenheim and the simple spiral of gold wire Calder gave his wife as an engagement ring. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'CHOIRS OF ANGELS: PAINTING IN ITALIAN CHOIR BOOKS, 1300-1500,' through April 12. The transition from medieval to Early and High Renaissance painting is told in a new way with a series of small, gemlike images that originally decorated illuminated initials in Italian choir books. The vividly colored scenes turned the initials into little stages, while running the gamut of biblical narratives. (Depictions of martyrdom were big.) They are the work of anonymous monks and of well-known painters like Lorenzo Monaco and Sano di Pietro. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'THE ESSENTIAL ART OF AFRICAN TEXTILES,' through April 5. This show presents 19th-century African textiles, many lent by the British Museum, alongside relevant contemporary artworks from the Met's collection. One of the most spectacular pairings matches El Anatsui's ''Between Earth and Heaven,'' a recent acquisition, with a kente prestige cloth from Ghana. The Met's 2005 exhibition ''Matisse: The Fabric of Dreams'' hinted that textiles had been undervalued in the Western canon; while the current show may not have the same blockbuster appeal, it goes deeper into the techniques and traditions that make the fabrics so striking and seductive. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'EARLY BUDDHIST MANUSCRIPT PAINTING: THE PALM-LEAF TRADITION,' through March 22. Practical features like resilience and portability help explain why books written on dried palm leaves were popular with Buddhists in eastern India between the 10th and 13th centuries. But another factor, surely, was the quality of the illustrations that accompanied the texts: exquisite figures of divinities or scenes from the Buddha's life. And few of these are as finely done and pristinely preserved as the examples in this small selection. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'THE PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO YEARS: CURATORS CELEBRATE THREE DECADES OF ACQUISITIONS,' through Feb. 1. As the title implies, the show is a tribute to Mr. de Montebello, who is leaving the Met after being director for more than 30 years. For the occasion, curators in 17 of the museum departments have chosen objects in their fields of expertise from the permanent collection. There are marvelous things here, from Chinese scrolls, Greek vessels and Oceanic effigies to Byzantine icons and an 18th-century American pickle-holder. In short, a wonder-cabinet situation. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'RAQIB SHAW,' through March 1. In the phantasmagorical paintings of the artist Raqib Shaw, who was born in Calcutta and is based in London, Victorian fairies and Hindu deities mingle in settings inspired by Persian gardens and classical ruins. The works in this midcareer solo show also rely heavily on the 16th-century painter Hans Holbein the Younger and the 18th-century draftsman Giovanni Battista Piranesi, with mixed results. Of particular note is ''Absence of God IV ... The Blind Butterfly Catcher'' (2008), a 10-foot-long painting on gaboon-wood board in which animals and mythical beasts romp in a florid landscape. A small selection of Holbein's engravings are also on view. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PROTECTING THE WORD: BOOKBINDINGS OF THE MORGAN,' through March 29. J. P. Morgan collected omnivorously in many areas, but he might have loved books and their bindings above all else. Thus -- the recent name change notwithstanding -- he founded a library, not a museum. This sumptuous exhibition presents 55 of that library's finest bookbinding treasures, including several purchased by Morgan himself. In jeweled metalwork, tooled and mosaic leather, and both illuminated and printed volumes dating from the 9th to the 20th centuries, the books and their helpful labels trace the entwined histories of a fascinating art form, the spread of human knowledge (and bibliophilia) and one of the handiest and most civilizing of humanity's inventions. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM AT F.I.T.: 'GOTHIC: DARK GLAMOUR,' through Feb. 21. This paean to the persistent gothic strain in fashion includes costumes from the Victorian era to the present. Fashionistas will relish the chance to see famous creations by Olivier Theyskens, Anne Demeulemeester and other avant-garde designers. Readers of Poe, Shelley and other Romantic authors will enjoy seeing characters and settings come to life. And the eager consumers of adolescent vampire fantasies, from ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer'' to ''Twilight,'' will thrill to the clothes' sex-and-death subtext. Organized by Valerie Steele, the director of the Fashion Institute of Technology's museum, the show unfolds in a nightmarish mise-en-scene conceived by the British artist and set designer Simon Costin. Seventh Avenue at 27th Street, (212) 217-4560, fitnyc.edu. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'SECOND LIVES: REMIXING THE ORDINARY,' through April 19. The inaugural show in the Museum of Arts and Design's jewel-box-like building continues its haphazard segue from a concentration on craft to a hipper, more wide-ranging program. Unfortunately, the focus is a strategy that is epidemic in the larger art world: the massing of something small (plastic spoons, ladies pumps, spools of thread, dangling eyeglasses) into something large (a pyramid, a loveseat, a view of the ''Mona Lisa,'' a chandelier). It is Surrealism 101, descended from Meret Oppenheim's beloved and far too influential fur-lined teacup. Basically, you see the thing. You see the things it is made of. Something in the way of a punch line follows. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PARIS/NEW YORK: DESIGN FASHION CULTURE, 1925-1940,' through Feb. 22. This compact yet kaleidoscopic exhibition celebrates the romance that flourished between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s, when French Art Deco was the style, American jazz was the music, and skyscrapers and sumptuous ocean liners were among the symbols of the age. Selected and installed to extract maximum wattage from every juxtaposition, object and image (including many surprisingly effective digital reproductions), it tracks the exchange of goods as much as of ideas, and the roles played by both department stores and museums, knockoffs and originals, businessmen (especially developers) and designers and artists. Most memorably, it clarifies a golden age of design and building, when New York became the world capital of Art Deco architecture. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN DIASPORAN ARTS: 'I AM A MAN,' through Jan. 18. The words that make up the title of this strong, timely group show were emblazoned on placards carried by striking black workers in Birmingham, Ala., in 1968. But the show turns the original assertion into a question: What does it mean to be an African-American male today? A smart, Pop-style painting by Fahamu Pecou sends up stereotypes of sexual prowess; a video by Lorenzo Steele Jr. looks at prison life from the inside; Jefferson Pinder casts his sights back to the civil rights movement's espousal of passive resistance in a video piece that illustrates that ideal in action. The written statements by each artist are well worth reading. 80 Hanson Place, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0492, mocada.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MARLENE DUMAS: MEASURING YOUR OWN GRAVE,' through Feb. 16. In this large midcareer survey, this South-African-born, Amsterdam-based artist comes across as a none-too-daring Neo-Expressionist with a feminist outlook. Throughout, shocking subject matter -- murdered women and children, cringing adolescents, bodies in morgues, grotesque newborns -- adds gravity that the works frequently lack. Ms. Dumas's early Conceptual-based work, isolated in a vitrine at the back of the show, indicates a restless young talent. What follows suggests a complacent premature settling on a style that hasn't developed. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'POUR YOUR BODY OUT (7354 CUBIC METERS),' through Feb. 2. This site-specific installation by the Swiss artist Pipilotti Rist is arguably the first project to humanize -- and feminize -- the atrium. Incorporating high-definition video, music and specially designed furniture, it creates a womblike comfort zone in a building full of right angles. Throughout the installation viewers are confronted with Ms. Rist's signature hyper-femininity. Pink is everywhere, from the flowers in the projections to the curtains that wall off the atrium from the upper galleries. In the video quick turns from sensuality to disgust, wide-eyed delight to snarling aggression, keep things interesting. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'ALFRED KUBIN: DRAWINGS, 1897-1909,' through Jan. 26. You would never guess that the Viennese artist Alfred Kubin was a contemporary of Gustav Klimt; he is closer in spirit to the Belgian James Ensor and the Norwegian Edvard Munch, visionaries who expressed modernity's spiritual toll and anticipated some of the horrors of the 20th century. Executed in black-and-white pen, ink and spray on heavy paper used for cartography, Kubin's drawings map the shadowy corners of the unconscious. Playing to the art's dark themes, the Neue Galerie's third floor has been made over in the sensationally macabre style of a Tim Burton movie. The walls are painted black and brown; red crushed-velvet curtains hang in the doorways; and Kubin's death mask is displayed in a coffinlike glass case. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'MARY HEILMANN: TO BE SOMEONE,' through Jan. 26. Over the past four decades Ms. Heilmann has been painting with an infectious joie de vivre. Working with big brushes and generous quantities of paint, she continues to produce wildly colorful abstractions that riff with irreverent verve on basic elements of Modernist painting: the grid, the monochromatic rectangle, stripes, organic forms, linear webs, spots, checks and drips. This exhilarating retrospective presents works dating from 1967 to the present. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'GINO DE DOMINICIS,' through Jan. 26. The first American survey of the work of the elusive Italian artist Gino De Dominicis (1947-1999) suggests that his art may be an acquired taste and provides some aid in its acquisition without quite closing the deal. The exhibition includes a few examples of Mr. De Dominicis's early Conceptually oriented work, including an announcement of his own death. Many of the paintings depict an anonymous beaked creature in monochrome colors; they suggest de Chirico competing with the abstraction of postwar Europeans like Yves Klein. The whole enterprise -- including a hyperbolic catalog -- raises questions about the plight of Italian contemporary artists, the burden of the Renaissance and the human need to proclaim genius, whether the anointment is deserved or not. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Smith)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through Sept. 14. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. (See above). (Johnson)
 STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: BARKLEY L. HENDRICKS: 'BIRTH OF THE COOL,' through March 15. He did not birth the cool -- that was Miles Davis -- but Mr. Hendricks's suave portraits from the 1960s, '70s and early '80s give him the right to use this title for his five-decade retrospective. Mixing realism, abstraction and Pop, Mr. Hendricks's life-size paintings of beautiful black people in extravagantly fashionable outfits captured a period sensibility with uncanny acuity. Today, with portrait painters like Kehinde Wiley, Elizabeth Peyton and Chuck Close enjoying great popularity, Mr. Hendricks's work is back in style. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEXANDER CALDER: THE PARIS YEARS, 1926-1933,' through Feb. 15. Is art glorified child's play, extending into adulthood, through a lifetime, picking up ideas and gaining finesse as it goes? That's one way to think of this exhibition, which focuses intently on one artist's child-within embodied in toys, cartoons and wire figures, with the Whitney's famous ''Calder's Circus'' as a centerpiece and a grown-up modernist surprise at the end. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'WILLIAM EGGLESTON: DEMOCRATIC CAMERA,' through Jan. 25. When William Eggleston's snapshotlike color photographs of his home territory in the American South were shown at the Museum of Modern Art in 1976, critics squawked that the work was vulgar and haphazard. But these pictures quickly became influential classics. And that's how they look in this 40-year retrospective at the Whitney, the artist's first New York museum solo since his seditious debut. The show includes a recently edited version of Mr. Eggleston's cruel, unusual and ultimately revolting video epic ''Stranded in Canton.'' (See above.) (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'NEIL JENNEY: NEW PAINTINGS' With the works in this beautiful show, his first exhibition of new paintings in New York since 1998, Neil Jenney continues to create idiosyncratic landscapes with heavy black frames. Most surprising are two paintings of luminous blue skies with puffy, animal-shaped clouds in them and the word ''Atmosphere'' neatly lettered on each frame. Barbara Mathes Gallery, 22 East 80th Street, (212) 570-4190, bmathesgallery.com, through Jan. 24. (Johnson)
 Galleries: SoHo
 MATT MULLICAN: 'A DRAWING TRANSLATES THE WAY OF THINKING' Drawing for Mr. Mullican is a note-taking tool in a vast program of semiotic research. Much of the material displayed in this intermittently intriguing exhibition of more than 200 drawings, collages, photographs, watercolors and notebooks will mean less to the average viewer than it presumably does to the artist himself. A fascinating video of a Paul McCarthy-style performance suggests that Mr. Mullican is most interesting as a kind of highbrow clown. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org, through Feb. 5. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'HOW TO COOK A WOLF: PART ONE' A series of some 40 sex-linked artworks explore human desires of several kinds. The efforts range from relatively explicit to language-based to natural forms. The names include David Dupuis, Betty Tompkins, Nicolas Rule, Judith Hudson, Elizabeth Lennard and Philip Taaffe. There are more snakes than wolves, but whatever. It is a very entertaining show. Dinter Fine Art, 547 West 27th Street, (212) 947-2818, dinterfineart.com, through Jan. 31. (Smith)
 JOHN WESLEY: 'QUESTION OF WOMEN' The beauty of Mr. Wesley's paintings is as much in the abstraction as in the representation. The reduced palette of pinks, coral reds, black and sky blue; the sensuous flux of curvy contour lines; and the perfect fitting of large shapes into the rectangle of the canvas: combine all that with the tantalizing, cartoon imagery of women in suggestively erotic situations and you have paintings that are nearly impossible to look away from. Fredericks & Freiser, 536 West 24th Street, (212) 633-6555, fredericksfreisergallery.com, through Feb. 7. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Other
 LILY LUDLOW AND ALLEN CORDELL: 'SOWING CIRCLE' A three-screen film alternates black-and-white shots of nine women smoking, talking and sipping wine after a meal, with color views of each woman at home involved in mostly solitary, peaceful pursuits, like bathing, gardening or making coffee (except one who climbs a fire escape with a suitcase). Transitions are marked by animations of swirling smoke. The women, who include Chloe Sevigny, are perhaps a little too much of a glamorous BoHo type. Thoughts of the many joys of not being a man alternate with memories of the ''popular girls'' table in the high school cafeteria. Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, near Canal Street, Lower East Side, (212) 925-4631, canadanewyork.com, through Jan. 18. (Smith)
 'WITHOUT WALLS' Acknowledging its predilection for sculpture, Museum 52 invited 50 artists, including some painters, to exhibit floor pieces measuring no larger than 2 by 1 by 1 feet. The results dot the premises at regular, closely spaced intervals and exemplify the current interest in abject, mostly abstract bricolage; it is like a Whitney Biennial, only shrunk. Museum 52, 95 Rivington Street, near Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 228-3090, museum52.com, through Jan. 17. (Smith)
 Out of Town
 MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON: 'RACHEL WHITEREAD: PLACE (VILLAGE),' through Jan. 25. This exhibition, the centerpiece of the museum's mini-survey devoted to the British sculptor Rachel Whiteread, may strike the artist's admirers as a bizarre and kitschy departure. Viewers who have never seen one of her room-size casts won't really get a sense of her work from this installation, which is making its United States debut. Still, the show, which includes drawings and a few smaller sculptures, reveals the more emotive side of an artist who can come off as somber and humorless. 465 Huntington Avenue, (617) 267-9300, mfa.org. (Rosenberg)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'POMPEII AND THE ROMAN VILLA: ART AND CULTURE AROUND THE BAY OF NAPLES,' through March 22. This show about the opulent lifestyle of the Roman elite before the A.D. 79 eruption of Vesuvius includes recent discoveries on view in the United States for the first time, as well as finds from excavations dating to the mid-18th century. The galleries unfold according to the floor plan of a typical villa, and the installation -- which includes decorative columns, wall borders, living plants and reproductions of mosaics -- works hard to maintain the illusion of classical architecture. The exhibition moves from artifacts reflecting ancient Romans' infatuation with Greek culture to the rediscovery of Pompeii by 18th-century Europeans, suggesting that every culture finds affirmation of its taste and sophistication in a previous golden age. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Rosenberg)
 Last Chance
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'ART AND CHINA'S REVOLUTION' The splashy party that was the 2008 Olympics is yesterday's news, but one-party rule in China remains. New China is still, in significant ways, Old China. The obvious question is: What comes next? To help answer it, Asia Society asks a different, equally timely post-Olympics question: What came before? This exhibition of paintings, drawings, posters and Maoist souvenirs produced in the years leading up to and during the Cultural Revolution gives complicated answers. It lays out the conflicted loyalties that have shaped contemporary China, and finds them in the work of artists who anticipated the current art boom and are part of it. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GILBERT & GEORGE' Dynamic duo, gruesome twosome or just plain geeks in ties and tweeds, the British artists Gilbert & George don't seem to care what you call them as long as you pay attention, which you couldn't avoid doing if you tried in their suffocating and disordered wraparound survey at the Brooklyn Museum. In no particular sequence, we see the shadowy early black-and-white photographic pieces they did while living in a falling-down section of London in the 1970s, and the huge Pop colored murals filled with flowers and crowds of dishy young men, which decrease in number during the most devastating years of the AIDS epidemic. The newest work in the show, from 2005 and 2006, is crazy, end-of-time stuff. Terrorism and religious fundamentalism are the themes, and Gilbert and George themselves, partners in art as in life, are in the picture, mugging, moralizing, unembarrassed and all but unendurable, in art that's right for right now. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 'FRANKENTHALER AT EIGHTY: SIX DECADES'Helen Frankenthaler's longtime gallery is giving her an 80th-birthday party. With nine large-scale works from the artist's personal collection, covering more than five decades, the show takes the form of a mini-retrospective. (A more substantial museum survey is long overdue.) The earliest work is ''Western Dream,'' a maelstrom of lavender-and-coral stains on unprimed canvas; the newest is ''Warming Trend,'' a near-monochrome field of indigo with fiery undertones. Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550, knoedlergallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Rosenberg)
 TRENTON DOYLE HANCOCK: 'FEAR' The latest eye-popping art environment from this talented artist simplifies his epic, racially charged battles and prunes the build-up of eccentric materials usual to his collage paintings. Variations on a cartoonish, frightened face lay out the artist's considerable formal arsenal while also suggesting that we unfortunately have plenty to fear besides fear itself. A painting of a large black hand riddled with stigmata, and titled ''The Bad Promise,'' makes good on Mr. Hancock's debt to artists like R. Crumb and Philip Guston. As much drawing as painting, it is an astounding sight. James Cohan Gallery, 533 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 714-9500, jamescohan.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 AL HELD An awesome blast of light, color, space and geometry awaits visitors to this exhibition of six paintings dating from 1979 to 1985 by Mr. Held (1928-2005). Rendered in richly saturated and incandescent colors, these expansive, hard-edged pictures of grids, boxes, wheels and serpentine loops, interpenetrating and receding into infinite, Euclidean distances, are like visions of a neo-Platonist on acid. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 GULNARA KASMALIEVA AND MURATBEK DJUAMLIEV: 'A NEW SILK ROAD' In a five-channel video commissioned by the Art Institute of Chicago, an artist team from the Kyrgyz Republic documents with bare-bones lyricism and exquisite editing the struggling economies that have sprung in this former Soviet republic along one of the original Silk Roads. Ancient trucks as rusty as their cargo take junk to China; pristine Chinese trucks bearing factory goods come the other way. Makeshift villages along the way provide food, housing and the occasional song, all against a stunningly austere landscape. The bottom line? We will survive, and make art too. Winkleman Gallery, 637 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 643-3152, winkleman.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 JAN MANCUSKA The predilection for fusing language, sculpture and space results in two filmed dialogues projected on a screen flanked by walls of modernist Czech furniture, and a written exchange that unfolds on a long line of teacups, teapots, ashtrays and glasses. In all cases the conversations are circular, self-referential and generic, with things like stage directions or pauses included. The works are more puzzlelike and cerebral than previous efforts, but worth the time. Andrew Kreps Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-8849, andrewkreps.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JOAN MIRO: PAINTING AND ANTI-PAINTING 1927-1937' When, in 1927, Joan Miro said, ''I want to assassinate painting,'' he wasn't saying anything new. What was new was the way he carried out his self-assigned, cut-throat task. And that process is the subject of this invigorating, absorbing and -- Miro would be mortified -- beautiful show. It illustrates, step by step, how he stalked and attacked painting -- zapped its conventions, messed up its history, spoiled its market value -- through distinctive groups of experimental works produced over a decade. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY 2008: JOSEPHINE MECKSEPER AND MIKHAEL SUBOTZKY' Josephine Meckseper, a German-born artist in her 40s who was trained at the California Institute of the Arts, makes sleek-looking installations that mix photography and film -- often scenes of political protest -- with consumer objects. The South African artist Mikhael Subotzky, who at 26 is the youngest photographer to have been invited to join the Magnum Group, explores his country's prison system in vivid color and unflinching detail. If Ms. Meckseper finds glossy, consumerist fantasy infiltrating our political consciousness, Mr. Subotzky reminds us that some people don't yet have the luxury of fretting about the commodification of dissent. (See above.) Closes on Monday. 
 (Rosenberg)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'JAN LIEVENS: A DUTCH MASTER REDISCOVERED' Although not a household name now, Jan Lievens once was famous throughout Northern Europe for his portraits and his religious and history paintings. A child prodigy, he was a friend and colleague of Rembrandt's. Early in their careers, the two painters worked closely together, and many of Lievens's paintings later were misattributed to Rembrandt. Lievens was not Rembrandt's equal, but he had his moments, especially in remarkably precocious paintings that he made as a teenager. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov; closes on Sunday. (Johnson)
 NEW MUSEUM: 'LIVE FOREVER: ELIZABETH PEYTON' This lush midcareer survey pays tribute to an artist whose diminutive, irony-free, boldly colored portraits of friends, artists, rock stars and other historic figures, living and dead, have exerted considerable influence over the last 16 years. The reason is a complex, highly effective fusion of the painterly, the personal and the Conceptual, as well as a kind of reverse appropriation, wherein photographs and snapshots are given a new permanence, substance and most of all feeling by being re-engineered into unique art objects. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 PAT PLACE: 'THE END, 1981-INFINITY' The photographs of Pat Place, the artist and founder of the band Bush Tetras, give you appropriation art in the raw, without high production values. Affixed to unframed sheets of paper is a selection of the more than a thousand photographs of movie end titles that Ms. Place has shot (from television) since 1981. Minus the glamour of enlargement, lamination or glazing, the basic anthropological evidence nonetheless illuminates the vagaries of a slight but essential convention, the changing tastes and technologies of film and something of the times themselves. Jane Kim/Thrust Projects, 114 Bowery, near Grand Street, Lower East Side, (212) 431-4802, thrustprojects.com; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 CHARLOTTE POSENENSKE: 'PROTOTYPES FOR MASS PRODUCTION (1965-1967)' The works in this exhibition -- simple geometric forms made of folded sheet metal and painted in black and primary-colored enamels -- were intended to be mass-produced, sold at cost and displayed in public. Ms. Posenenske quit making art in 1968 when she concluded that it could not make enough of a political difference in the world, but her sculptures still have a bright, Pop Art-like punch. Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson) 
 PETER SUTHERLAND: 'BLAME IT ON THE DOG' As seen in his New York gallery debut, Peter Sutherland's off-hand aesthetic might be summed up as fun with cameras, but not too much. On view are rugs based on photographs, photo-collages and reprises of 1970s Story Art. Images of post-hippie rural America dominate, often with titles that add sudden focus, unexpected meaning or wistful humor. Mr. Sutherland's work celebrates the artistic possibilities implicit in the most pedestrian and barren facts of American life. Every instant is a possible image, every image a likely story. ATM Gallery, 621 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 375-0349, atmgallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); RELIGION (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); STREET ART (79%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL ARTS (79%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



264 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: A Graduate of the Depression Hangs On in a Recession

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It looked as if the bad times had finally caught up to Ruth Taube, after she had managed, for 42 years, to float above temporary cutbacks, dwindling resources and unfortunate turns of events at her place of employment. 
 Early last month, Ms. Taube's boss at the Henry Street Settlement, a longtime social service agency on the Lower East Side, took her aside and broke the news: Because of budget cuts, it was eliminating the Home Planning Workshop, the program that Ms. Taube, 85, had been running since 1966. 
 It wasn't an easy conversation. Her superior knew how much Ms. Taube loved going to the workshop, where she's taught generations of women and men from the neighborhood, free of charge, how to sew, knit, crochet, upholster and generally make do. If a chair broke, Ms. Taube or someone working for her could show its owner how to fix it. If a lamp needed rewiring, that could be done at the Home Planning Workshop, too. 
 Ms. Taube, a small woman with bright blue eyes and a commanding voice, was told she could continue to run the program as a volunteer. ''I said 'no thank you,' '' she recalled. And, she thought, ''I can always find another job.'' 
 She knew, however, that that job would never be like the workshop, where some of the women she instructs have been coming to her for counsel for 30 or 40 years.
 In the beginning, the workshop, as Ms. Taube puts it, ''was hot, hot, hot.'' The program ran five days a week, and was flooded with people learning shoe repair, woodworking and electrical skills.
 In the 1970s, women learned to sew suits they would wear on their first job interviews, and men came in to hot-patch their worn pants on a Thermopatch machine donated by the manufacturer.
 Over time, the program faded. Clothing got cheap and people got busy. Cultural values shifted from make do to buy new. For the past few years, Ms. Taube has been welcoming 20 to 30 people a session, four sessions a week (two in the afternoon and two in the evening). 
 Norma Moore, one of the regulars, started coming 23 years ago, when she lived nearby in the Vladeck Houses on Madison Street, was pregnant and wanted to crochet a baby carriage cover. Ms. Taube taught her how to do that, and then, when the baby was born, advised her on how to nurse her and, as she grew, on how to raise her right.
 Ms. Moore moved to Queens, but she continued coming to Henry Street, and most recently has been knitting baby sweaters -- under Ms. Taube's still-exacting tutelage -- for her daughter's child.
 ''She wants things done right,'' Ms. Moore said of her mentor. ''Otherwise, you have to rip it out and start over. But that's what makes her a good teacher.'' 
 Ms. Taube, whose husband succumbed to injuries he received in World War II, raised her daughter on the Lower East Side, acquiring a level of self-taught self-sufficiency she has always tried to impart to her students.
 When it snows or sleets, it is Ms. Taube who hustles outside to salt the sidewalk. Last spring, at 84, she repainted the green terrace outside the one-bedroom apartment in the Seward Park Houses that she bought the year she started working at Henry Street. Inside it, she works diligently in her free time, sewing drapes and curtains for her granddaughters on a Singer that she inherited from her sister-in-law's mother, a machine well over 100 years old. It was originally a foot-pedal machine, but Ms. Taube wired it herself and it is now electric.
 WHEN students like Ms. Moore learned that the program was ending, they showed the kind of initiative that did Ms. Taube proud. Five or six of them called the director of the Henry Street Settlement to complain, sent in a petition and bombarded the office of the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, with phone calls of protest. 
 About two weeks ago, Ms. Taube learned the good news: $20,000 from the New York City Housing Authority that had been in doubt had come through. The program -- whose cost is a fraction of Henry Street's overall budget of about $38 million -- was revived, although the hours were cut to 6 hours a week from 14.
 Ms. Taube was back in business. 
 Maybe Ms. Taube evaded the ax just long enough to enjoy a bustling revival -- thrift and repair are in, after all, and a free class is harder than ever to come by. Her workshop combines both, as well as the perspective of someone who started sewing in the Great Depression and is still toiling away, finding joy, as she has her whole life, in creative resourcefulness.
 Be prepared, all ye who come, to heed the three dreaded words of a dissatisfied Ms. Taube: ''Rip it out!'' 
 If you don't want to, Ms. Taube said, that's O.K., too. ''But if you don't rip it out, don't say you did it at Henry Street,'' she says. ''Because it's my name you're besmirching.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ruth Taube, 85, has been teaching sewing, and self sufficiency, at the Henry Street Settlement for more than 40 years.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. B. REED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (84%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



265 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 476 words

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
CRACKING DOWN 
 On Park Pedicabs
 If there were a chase scene in this particular crime drama, it would not be too hair-raising. But the long arm of the law still drew plenty of stares on a recent Sunday along the Central Park Mall, the long promenade leading to the Bethesda Terrace. 
 At one moment, three pedicab drivers, some with passengers still ensconced, were pulled over almost simultaneously by enforcement officers and issued summonses.
 ''Pedicabs are not allowed to be on pedestrian pathways, and obviously the mall is a major pedestrian pathway,'' said Douglas Blonsky, the Central Park administrator and president of the Central Park Conservancy, the private nonprofit organization that manages the park under contract with the Department of Parks and Recreation.
 Of the 28 summonses issued to pedicabs in Central Park on Dec. 28, when this photograph was taken, 8 were on the Mall. In 2008, a total of 2,609 summonses were issued to pedicabs for various infractions.
 ''We like pedicabs,'' Mr. Blonsky said. ''They're clean and a good way for tourists to see the city. But they clearly push the envelope of where they should be and what they can do. Many operators are very good, but there's a handful. ...'' He trailed off.
 ''Just like anything,'' he concluded, leaving the impression that the phrase ''bad apples'' had been lurking in his thoughts.
 With a maximum penalty of $200, it was unclear how much of a deterrent a summons represents. One driver at the Dec. 28 ticketfest seemed in a jaunty enough mood as he shouted to an enforcement officer, ''Remember, my name is spelled with one T, like the governor!''
 DAVID W. DUNLAP 
 LONG DOWNTURN
 Predicted in City
 Barack Obama could be running for re-election by the time New York's economy is humming again, according to the latest forecast from the city's Independent Budget Office, released on Thursday. Here is a sampling of the predictions:
 In 2012, Wall Street firms will still be making less than half as much profit as they made at the peak of the recent boom, and the number of jobs in the city will still be lower than it was last year. 
 Tax revenue will drop sharply this year and again next year, before collections begin to rise again in 2011.
 Before the recovery, the number of jobs in the city will fall to a low of about 3.53 million. That would amount to a loss of 242,700 jobs, about one of every 15. 
 Total tax revenue in the 2009 fiscal year will be $34.7 billion, or $1.2 billion less than the mayor's Office of Management and Budget projected in November. 
 PATRICK McGEEHAN 
 COMMENTS 
 OF THE DAY
 In iPod Age, Recalling
 Offbeat Wedding Songs
 ''It was at the reception, not the wedding proper, but I was a little surprised to hear 'Strokin',' by Clarence Carter.''
 -- Sam Meyer
 ''The theme to 'Shaft' upon entering the reception.''
 -- Bruce Ellerstein

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pedicabs receiving summonses in Central Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); BUDGETS (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BUDGET FORECASTS (67%); MAYORS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



266 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: The Course That Got Away

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
KAY AND SAM GARDALI spent so much time playing golf and visiting friends at a golf community outside Modesto, Calif., that the couple decided it would be better to buy a home there than to keep visiting their friends on weekends. 
 Two years ago, they bought a three-bedroom house at the Diablo Grande Winery & Resort, a new luxury golf development in Patterson, Calif., a bit more than an hour and a half east of San Francisco. For $500,000, they got a home set on one of the resort's two golf courses. Although the development was only about 45 minutes away from their main residence in the town of Turlock, they considered it a good investment and toyed with the idea of buying an additional house to rent out.
 It was good they didn't. Over the last year, the winery shut, the two golf courses closed, if only temporarily, and home construction ground to a halt. The developer filed for bankruptcy and the development was sold at a court sale in October, leaving homeowners unsure about what would happen to their property values and membership fees.
 ''We don't know if the money we've paid to belong to the golf club will be honored or not,'' Mrs. Gardali said. The couple paid $25,000, on top of the house price, to join. 
 Many people have bought second and third homes in golf developments for the high-end courses designed by well-known professional golfers, the tight-knit community and the plush clubhouses. But now a number of owners across the country are finding closed clubhouses and courses, lost membership fees and a direct hit to their home values as developers file for bankruptcy and can no longer maintain their courses. 
 Of course, the same problems that have pummeled the real estate business generally -- recession, tight credit and plunging prices -- have hurt the market in golf communities, leaving many developers unable to meet payments on their loans. The collapse last September of Lehman Brothers, a major investor in real estate deals and a backer of many golf communities, reduced the pool of buyers, according to Jeff Woolson, managing director and senior vice president for the golf and resort properties group at CB Richard Ellis in Carlsbad, Calif. In California alone, Lehman sank $2.5 billion into projects with the SunCal Companies, a community developer, many of which are now in bankruptcy proceedings. 
 And institutional investors that would have bought an ailing golf course when the economy was good are no longer interested.
 ''I'm spending hours a day speaking to appraisers, lenders, people who can't make money and have to sell their course,'' said Mr. Woolson, who once did roughly two golf course deals a year but now has at least seven listings on his books.
 The new owner at Diablo Grande, World International, a group of real estate investors, is still working on its official plan for the property but said this week that it expected to make some announcements soon. World International said it would probably maintain the original developer's goal of 1,600 new houses -- probably over five to seven years -- in addition to the 400 or so that have already been completed. Golf memberships would somehow be grandfathered in, and plans for a hotel, possibly in a different location, would still be included. A name change is in the works, along with a long-term water-quality project.
 In Bonita Springs, Fla., the Ronto Group shut the golf course at the Palmira Golf and Country Club in late September because it could no longer pay for its upkeep.
 ''It's really a victim of the current climate. You can't find any equity,'' said Anthony Solomon, a vice president at Ronto, based in Naples, Fla. Ronto sent Palmira homeowners a letter in late September that said the course would be closed. Bernard Poirier, who owns a second home at Palmira, didn't even get the letter and found out about the closing from friends who live there. The course had always been well managed, he said, and the developer never dropped any hints that it was having financial problems. 
 Given the deep housing problems in Florida, with drooping prices and a glut of homes on the market, homeowners couldn't afford to lose the 27-hole course. ''If the golf course goes, my property value will drop even more than it already has,'' said Mr. Poirier, a tax accountant in Warwick, R.I., who estimates that the value of his Palmira house has shrunk by 20 percent in the last two years.
 A group of homeowners is now fighting to save the course and has raised enough money to run it temporarily. They have negotiated a deal to buy the course outright from GMAC Financial Services and have lined up outside financing for an undisclosed amount. A deal should be signed by the end of the month, said one of the homeowners who helped negotiate the agreement.
 During the housing boom, golf courses were a well-tested way to sell homes at a hefty premium. Buyers would pay up to 25 percent more for a lot at a golf course community than for those at typical subdivisions, Mr. Woolson said. Golf also provided additional benefits: it allowed developers to use the courses to meet municipal drainage and open-space requirements, rather than simply having undeveloped land that does not produce revenue.
 ''People are attracted to golf because it's an embodiment of a lifestyle they want to live of fun,'' said Henry DeLozier, a Phoenix-based principal at the consulting firm Global Golf Advisors. ''Golf in America seems to have aspirational qualities that seem to affirm status achieved. Why else would someone pay a premium for the same house?''
 ''They didn't care how much they spent on the golf course because they were making so much money on lot sales,'' said Michael Allan Wolf, a professor at the University of Florida Levin College of Law in Gainesville and a specialist in golf course property conversions.
 Many builders carved out space for golf courses and clubhouses even if they knew nothing about the sport. A course generally costs about $5.2 million to build, double if a clubhouse, restaurant and pro shop are included, according to a 2005 study by GOLF 20/20, a coalition of equipment manufacturers, course operators and golfing associations managed by the World Golf Foundation, a group founded 15 years ago to promote interest in golf. But courses aren't cheap to operate, with maintenance costing $800,000 to $1.2 million a year.
 The National Golf Foundation, a separate industry group, says there are some 16,000 golf courses of every type in the United States, including more than 3,200 that are linked to residential real estate developments. Over 50 residential courses have closed since 2006.
 Even high-end fractionals, partial-ownership properties that generally attract wealthier buyers, have not been immune to the housing fallout. Last fall, Wasserman Real Estate Capital mothballed its project overlooking the Old Course at St. Andrews in Scotland, one of golf's most famous sites, when it did not sell enough units. Only a third of the residences, priced at $1.8 million to $3.7 million, were sold. This year, the real estate group plans to remarket the residences as full-ownership units.
 ''Many people wanted what I had, but they couldn't pay what I was asking. Others wanted the entire units,'' said David Wasserman, principal of the firm, based in Providence, R.I.
 Outside Las Vegas, developers are looking to abandon a golf course at a luxury resort development so they can stop losing millions on its upkeep. The Falls golf course, at the entrance to Lake Las Vegas, a luxury resort development with three golf courses, multimillion-dollar homes and upscale hotels, may be abandoned this month if a bankruptcy judge agrees. According to court filings, the championship course was expected to lose $1.9 million last year and $2.9 million in 2009.
 ''We want the golf course to stay open because it helps the project. But we can't afford to put down money on a course that's not making money,'' said Frederick Chin, president of the Nevada-based Atalon Group, which bought the resort after the original owner defaulted last year. 
 A hearing next week may decide whether the course will be abandoned. If it goes into foreclosure, the creditor would gain ownership.
 ''It's extremely upsetting,'' said Jerry McFarland, a real estate agent in San Diego who owns a home on the course. ''Not only could our homes be worth less, but our golf club memberships of $21,000 would become worthless.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bogey: At the Diablo Grande golf community east of San Francisco, where Kay and Sam Gardali bought a second home, the original developer has filed for bankruptcy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
 FAIRWAY VALUES: Economic woes have closed the golf courses at Diablo Grande, above, leaving second-home owners like Sam Gardali, left, concerned about their investments.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); RESORTS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (71%); CBRE GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



267 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: A Lawyer's Call for a Greater Black Presence in Agencies

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE inability of the advertising industry to fill its desks, cubicles and offices with a diverse work force is coming under fire again, this time from a lawyer with a track record of extracting large settlements on behalf of employees of giant corporations like Coca-Cola, Morgan Stanley and Texaco who believed they had been the victims of racial discrimination.
 The lawyer, Cyrus Mehri, joined the N.A.A.C.P. at a news conference on Thursday in Midtown Manhattan to release a report on race and employment in advertising. The 100-page report, addressing subjects like hiring, compensation, assignments and promotions, is part of what the N.A.A.C.P. and Mr. Mehri, of the Washington law firm of Mehri & Skalet, are calling the Madison Avenue Project.
 ''The N.A.A.C.P. and my firm are joining forces to take on the advertising industry and end the era of purposeful discrimination,'' Mr. Mehri said. 
 ''Forty-five years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, it's still a closed society,'' he added, where ''favoritism rules and merit is cast aside.''
 The goal of the project is nothing short of finally ending what Mr. Mehri and the other participants described as decades of systemic and pervasive bias against agency employees and would-be employees who are black, which they said makes the ad business far more unfair than most other major American industries.
 One way to achieve that would be to enlist agency clients -- the marketers that hire Madison Avenue to sell their wares to consumers -- in the quest for diversity.
 ''They will be a very persuasive voice to the advertising industry to change,'' said Angela Ciccolo, interim general counsel of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, particularly because many of them have already diversified their executive suites.
 Mr. Mehri shied away from listing legal action as another way for the project to achieve its goals. He said he preferred a ''collaborative process'' rather than confrontation.
 However, Mr. Mehri said that industry employees have already been coming forward to talk with his firm about ''charges of racial discrimination.''
 Blacks remain underrepresented on Madison Avenue, according to the report, ''Research Perspectives on Race and Employment in the Advertising Industry,'' which concluded that only 5.3 percent of managers and professionals at agencies in 2008 were black. 
 And those blacks who do manage to land jobs on Madison Avenue are significantly underpaid, the report said, earning 80 cents for each dollar earned by their white counterparts.
 The economy worsens the problem, Ms. Ciccolo said, because ''many training, recruitment and antidiscrimination programs come to a complete halt'' in hard times.
 Even so, ''recession is no excuse for discrimination,'' she added. ''Although African-Americans have found a place on Pennsylvania Avenue, they must have a place to work on Madison Avenue.''
 The ad industry has been the subject of criticism for the diversity of its hiring practices since the 1960s. Most recently, the New York City Human Rights Commission reached settlements in 2006 with nearly a dozen major agencies that required them to set and meet numerical goals for adding blacks to the ranks of their creative and managerial staffs.
 The involvement of Mr. Mehri, however, has the potential to intensify the pressure on Madison Avenue because of his success in handling class-action lawsuits against corporate America as well as the National Football League.
 The class-action lawsuit he handled against Coca-Cola, for instance, was settled for $193 million, along with stipulations for improvements in hiring practices.
 And after Mr. Mehri and the lawyer Johnnie L. Cochran Jr. presented a report on the lack of opportunities for blacks to become coaches of N.F.L. teams, the league adopted a rule requiring that at least one member of a minority group be interviewed for openings.
 A sign of how seriously the ad industry is taking the Madison Avenue Project was the presence at the news conference of Nancy Hill, chief executive of the industry's leading trade organization, the American Association of Advertising Agencies. 
 Asked after the news conference for her reaction to the report, Ms. Hill said she wanted to read it first, then added: ''The numbers speak for themselves. It's disappointing and discouraging. More has to be done.''
 Some members of the association also responded to the report.
 ''Inclusion has been a top priority for us for a number of years now, and we agree that change can only be achieved through systematically addressing the company's culture,'' said Heide Gardner, senior vice president and chief diversity and inclusion officer at the Interpublic Group of Companies in New York, which owns agencies like Campbell-Ewald, Deutsch and McCann Erickson Worldwide.
 ''We've put in place a wide range of diversity initiatives,'' she added, ''but we're always open to dialogue with anyone that comes to the table with new solutions.'' Ms. Gardner, who took her post at Interpublic in 2003, listed efforts there that include ''linking diversity goals and compensation'' for senior executives.
 Pat Sloan, a spokeswoman for the Omnicom Group in New York, which owns agencies like BBDO Worldwide, DDB Worldwide and TBWA Worldwide, said that executives there wanted ''to go through the report before we comment.''
 On Wednesday, the day before the news conference, Omnicom announced the hiring of its first chief diversity officer, Tiffany R. Warren, who worked at Arnold Worldwide in Boston, a Havas agency, as vice president for multicultural programs and community outreach.
 The timing of that announcement came in for some ribbing by Mr. Mehri, who referred to it as taking place ''between our press advisory and our press conference.'' (Ms. Warren's hiring was about four months in the making.)
 Owen J. Dougherty, a spokesman for the Grey Group in New York, part of WPP, referred to his agency's progress in achieving diversity goals as outlined in April in a preliminary report card from the city human rights commission. Two Grey agencies exceeded both sets of goals set for them, he said, and worked hard to recruit minority candidates for mid- and senior-level posts.
 Another major focus of the report -- written by Marc Bendick Jr. and Mary Lou Egan of Bendick & Egan Economic Consultants in Washington -- was to dismiss the effectiveness of efforts long popular in the ad industry to improve work force diversity like internships, scholarships and entry-level hiring programs.
 ''We need to adopt a different approach,'' Mr. Bendick said at the news conference, ''not on changing the behavior of the African-American applicant but changing the behavior'' of industry executives.
 ''The playing field in the industry is not level and has never been level,'' he added. ''At the current rate of improvement, we're not going to get to equal representation of African-Americans for another 71 years.''
 The most provocative criticism at the news conference of the lack of diversity at agencies came from Sanford Moore, an activist and talk-show host who is a former employee of BBDO. He has worked with city officials to change the employment practices at New York agencies.
 Speaking quietly but forcefully, Mr. Moore took issue with what he called ''the cotton curtain of discrimination'' as perpetuated by ''the men in the gray flannel sheets'' and declared that ''it is time for the last corporate bastion of Jim Crow to fall.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cyrus Mehri, a lawyer who has sued corporations over racial discrimination, said that ''favoritism rules and merit is cast aside'' in the advertising industry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); COCA-COLA CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (91%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



268 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
This San Francisco neighborhood, once known for the Summer of Love and for throwing off the strictures of convention, is now working to preserve its past. 
 nytimes.com/escapes 
 Opinion
 STANLEY FISH Roland Burris Through St. Augustine's Lens
 In determining the fate of Roland Burris's appointment, politicians may want to consult Thomas Hobbes, St. Augustine and the Crown's lawyers of the late 16th century.
 nytimes.com/thinkagain
 PROOF
 Bar and Peace
 Susan Cheever examines the relationship between drinking and the divine. nytimes.com/proof Room for Debate A new commentary blog convenes outside experts to discuss the latest news and other top issues.
 nytimes.com/roomfordebate
 SLIDESHOW: AFFORDABLE SANTA FE
 In the off-season, this New Mexico city offers world-class art galleries, historic churches and luxurious spas at budget prices.
 nytimes.com/escapes
 SLIDESHOW: FINDING SUNDAY RIVER
 This central Maine resort is the behemoth of the Eastern ski industry that only Boston-area skiers seem to know about.
 nytimes.com/escapes
 SLIDESHOW: 36 HOURS IN REYKJAVIK
 Iceland's financial collapse has made this once prohibitively expensive destination more affordable for visitors but has not dampened the capital city of its vibrant spirit.
 nytimes.com/travel
 INTERACTIVE: JOB STATISTICS
 An interactive graphic details a dreadful year for the labor market, showing that 2008 was the worst year of job losses in decades.
 nytimes.com/business
 AUDIO: TODAY'S BUSINESS
 Jeff Sommer talks with Stephanie Rosenbloom about the steep falloff in Christmas sales.
 nytimes.com/business
 SLIDESHOW: ABOUT WOMEN
 Gina Gionfriddo narrates an audio slide show about her play ''Becky Shaw,'' which opened Off Broadway on Thursday night at the Second Stage Theater.
 nytimes.com/theater
 SLIDESHOW: CAPTURING LIFE,
 During the Depression
 A slide show of images from ''Eudora Welty in New York: Photographs of the Early 1930s'' at the Museum of the City of New York, which reveals much about the texture of life during the Depression. Also, a slide show of images from the Outsider Art Fair, at its new location in Midtown, which harbors discoveries of all kinds.
 nytimes.com/design
 Well In Search of a Physician
 In her weekly Web column, Dr. Pauline Chen provides tips and insight from medical professionals for researching your health online. 
 nytimes.com/health
 SPECIAL SECTION: 
 Awards Season
 Full coverage of films of the awards season, including the critics' Oscar picks, the Carpetbagger blog, photo and video features, and more. 
 nytimes.com/awardsseason

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); BUDGETS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); RELIGION (70%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); SKIING (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); CHRISTMAS (54%); THEATER (50%)

PERSON: ROLAND BURRIS (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (75%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (55%) ICELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



269 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Meredith Dismisses 7% of Its Workers and Closes Country Home Magazine

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The Meredith Corporation shut one of its magazines, Country Home, and dismissed 7 percent of its employees on Thursday, adding to a long list of closings and downsizings in an industry battered by falling advertising. 
 Meredith said it was eliminating 250 jobs, including about 40 people who work at Country Home, a reduction that Patrick Taylor, a company spokesman, said was effective immediately. The company announced that it was taking a $16 million special charge, which Mr. Taylor said would pay for severance and buyouts.
 In an additional cost-saving measure, the company said it was relocating the creative functions of Parents.com, which is based in Manhattan, and ReadyMade, based in Berkeley, Calif., to the corporate headquarters in Des Moines.
 ''It enables them to really take advantage of the assets we have in Des Moines, like the photo studio and the test kitchen,'' Mr. Taylor said.
 In a statement, Stephen M. Lacy, the president and chief executive, cited sharply lower advertising, and added, ''trends indicate a continuing soft economy into calendar 2009 as well.''
 For the quarter ended Sept. 30, Meredith reported a 44 percent drop in net income from the year earlier, to $18.6 million, on revenue of $370.4 million. Since the start of 2008, the company's stock price has fallen by two-thirds. Meredith has 13 regularly published magazines, including Ladies' Home Journal and Better Homes and Gardens.
 Country Home began as an occasional publication from Better Homes and Gardens, became a stand-alone magazine in 1986, and grew to a robust circulation of almost 1.3 million. But like other shelter magazines that closed recently, including O at Home from the Hearst Corporation, and Cottage Living from Time Inc., it suffered as the recession led consumers and advertisers to cut back on spending.
 In 2008, Country Home had 25 percent fewer ad pages than in 2007, according to figures compiled by Media Industry Newsletter. 
 And like much of the industry, it maintained circulation in recent years in part by charging readers steadily less. In the first half of 2008, the most recent figures available, single-copy sales, usually at the full $4.95 cover price, were just 71,000, and subscribers paid an average of $1.05 an issue.
 Six years ago, Country Home had single-copy sales well over 200,000, and the average subscription price was $1.51 an issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOSINGS (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%)

COMPANY: MEREDITH CORP (93%); TIME INC (84%); HEARST CORP (82%); COUNTRY HOME MAGAZINE (58%); LADIES' HOME JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: MDP (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

PERSON: STEPHEN M LACY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



270 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: British Regulator Starts Madoff Investigation

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The Serious Fraud Office in Britain announced Thursday that is opening an investigation into the business operations of Bernard L. Madoff. 
 ''The focus of the investigation will be on U.K. victims and any criminal offences that might have been committed in the U.K.,'' the agency said in a statement. 
 Its decision follows the receipt of an report given to the agency by Grant Thornton, which is acting as the provisional liquidator in Britain for the operations of Mr. Madoff, the New York financier accused of running a $50 billion Ponzi scheme. The British agency added that it was ''liaising closely with law enforcement counterparts in the United States and with the City of London Police.'' 
 The Serious Fraud Office is a government department that investigates and prosecutes serious or complex fraud. ''We will work closely with other law enforcement agencies to discover the truth behind the collapse of these huge financial structures,'' the director of the agency, Richard Alderman, said in the statement. 
 The department appealed to investors and ''other stakeholders involved with the Madoff U.K. businesses'' to come forward and help them. It gave no other details about the length or scope of its inquiry.
 Mr. Madoff, who is said to have confessed last month to a huge Ponzi scheme, is under 24-hour house arrest in his $7 million Manhattan apartment after posting a $10 million bail. 
 The extent of his financial holdings in Europe has been emerging in recent weeks. Authorities in Austria have taken control of Bank Medici, a small merchant bank that disclosed that $2.1 billion in client funds had been invested with Mr. Madoff.
 Larger European banks like HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland lent funds to money management firms, which leveraged larger returns on their investments with Mr. Madoff. In return, these banks received collateral in the form of assets in Mr. Madoff's firm, which are most likely worthless. 
 A French aristocrat, Rene-Thierry Magon de la Villehuchet, saw his fortune disappear along with his clients' when he lost $1.4 billion he had invested with Mr. Madoff. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PONZI SCHEMES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSE ARREST (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (72%); MERCHANT BANKING (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); ARRESTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (81%); GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (57%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (81%); RBS (LSE) (81%); RBS (AMS) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); AUSTRIA (52%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



271 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW EUDORA WELTY IN NEW YORK: PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE EARLY 1930S; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Portraits Taken by the Writer as a Young Woman (in Hard Times)

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
In the mid-1930s, as her writing career was just starting to take off, Eudora Welty thought she might become a photographer. As a junior publicity agent for the Works Progress Administration, she had traveled around rural Mississippi taking pictures of people coping with the Depression. In letters and while visiting New York, she lobbied publishers and photographers (including Berenice Abbott) in the hope of gaining exposure for her words and images.
 In 1936 Welty got her chance: her short story ''Death of a Traveling Salesman'' was published in Manuscript magazine, and a solo exhibition of her Mississippi photographs was presented at the photographic galleries of Lugene Opticians on Madison Avenue. But eventually she gave up photography to focus on her writing. (Sometime in the 1950s she left her camera on a bench in the Paris Metro and never allowed herself to replace it.) 
 Still, her early camerawork, now on view at the Museum of the City of New York, is a compelling record of Depression-era life. ''Eudora Welty in New York: Photographs of the Early 1930s'' restages the Lugene show with an important addition: photographs taken in Manhattan around 1935. As a white woman traveling in black areas of the segregated South, and later as a Southerner in New York, Welty was an outsider -- but a highly empathetic one, with a novelist's eye for the subtleties of human expression.
 The New York pictures complement Welty's Mississippi scenes by offering an urban angle on hardship. As she later recalled, ''It was the same Depression we were feeling here in Mississippi, but evident in such another way in the city: lines of people waiting for food and people selling apples and sitting there in Union Square, all reading the daily paper's want ads.'' 
 From one photograph to the next we sense a young artist and writer honing her eye and voice. ''Making pictures of people in all sorts of situations, I learned that every feeling waits upon its gesture, and I had to be prepared to recognize this moment when I saw it,'' she later wrote in the memoir ''One Writer's Beginnings.'' ''These were things a story writer needed to know.''
 Organized by Sean Corcoran, the photography curator at the Museum of the City of New York, the exhibition travels in April to the Mississippi Museum of Art in Jackson, one of several events commemorating the centennial of Welty's birth. (She died in 2001.) In March the University Press of Mississippi will publish the comprehensive ''Eudora Welty as Photographer.''
 The museum has not followed the sequence of the original Lugene exhibition. Instead the display adheres loosely to the form of an unrealized photography book Welty had planned called ''Black Saturday.'' It was to reflect the rhythms of a day in Southern life, ''the work and the visit to town and the home and so on,'' as she later recalled. Many of the images were published in her 1971 book of photographs ''One Time, One Place.''
 Like her writing, Welty's pictures display a keen sense of conversation and dialogue. In ''The Boast'' and ''Small Talk'' pairs of men trade jokes, gossip and tall tales. Here and there a false narrative emerges in the show: a photograph titled ''The Date,'' of a man and woman chatting on the street, hangs next to ''Stood Up'' (a picture of a different young woman waiting, with her luggage, at a train station).
 Welty shied away from the formal approach of Walker Evans and other photographers who worked for the Farm Services Administration. Her pictures were casual, mostly unposed snapshots; any pathos feels less intended. Her subjects, though poor, don't look downtrodden so much as hot, tired and bored.
 The portraits of black children are especially sensitive though not sentimental. A knobby-kneed girl on her way to Sunday school clutches a giant umbrella; kindergarten-age twins or look-alikes carry matching blond dolls.
 Welty seems to have been restricted by an innate sense of decorum. She photographed people on streets and porches but not in their homes. In one curious group portrait women are dressed in bird costumes for a church pageant. Welty was invited to the pageant but declined to photograph it, opting instead for stiffly posed outdoor shots in which the paper wings accessorize proper hats and dresses.
 Welty had little training in photography and was clearly driven by sociological instincts, but a few of her pictures seem self-consciously artistic. In ''Dappled'' a woman is showered with dots of sun filtered through the trees. And in several shots of people sitting on weathered verandas, long late-afternoon shadows emphasize psychological distance.
 In the New York photographs the jobless while away the hours on park benches and in other public spaces. In ''The Unemployed and the Apple Seller,'' one of many sympathetic portraits of out-of-work men, Welty records an idle vendor eyeing a bread line across the street.
 She also photographed New York architecture that may have seemed novel to her, if not to us: row house stoops, elevated trains, Lower East Side tenements. (We indulge her, as she indulges us our curiosity about chitlins and sorghum gum in the Southern pictures.)
 In Welty's New York photographs, themes from the Mississippi series take on new meaning. Consider a picture of a young woman window shopping in the Mississippi town of Grenada. Shown in profile, with one hand on her hip and the other raised to her chin, she seems to linger in front of an item she can't afford. Later, in New York, Welty captures a group of unemployed men facing a storefront. Photographed from behind, in their matching overcoats and fedoras, desire is transformed into something collective and faceless.
 Devotees of Welty's novels and short stories may be tempted to search the photographs for clues to the writing. There are some: the strange-looking tree covered with glass bottles that makes a highly symbolic appearance in the story ''Livvie,'' or the views of Union Square described in ''Flowers for Marjorie,'' Welty's only short story set in New York.
 More interesting than those correspondences, though, is how the photographs convey a sense of a budding literary curiosity. As Welty reminisced in ''One Writer's Beginnings,'' ''The camera was a hand-held auxiliary of wanting-to-know.''
 ''Eudora Welty in New York: Photographs of the Early 1930s'' continues through Feb. 16 at the Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street; (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An untitled photograph shot in Union Square, included in ''Eudora Welty in New York.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MISSISSIPPI DEPARTMENT OF ARCHIVES AND HISTORY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); WRITERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PUBLISHING (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY PRESS OF MISSISSIPPI (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



272 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Troubles of Satyam Could Benefit Rivals and 2 U.S. Companies

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
One company's scandal is another's opportunity. 
 The financial fraud at Satyam is rippling through the technology services industry, as customers scramble to line up other suppliers and rivals look to pick up business. 
 Already, competitors are angling for a share of Satyam's nearly $2 billion in annual revenue. The big winners from the fallout are likely to be two American companies, Accenture and I.B.M., Rod Bourgeois, a technology services specialist at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said Thursday.
 Accenture and I.B.M., Mr. Bourgeois said, have three advantages over other competitors. Each company already supplies most of the blue-chip corporate clients of Satyam. I.B.M. and Accenture have built up their Indian operations in recent years, so they offer Satyam customers the same skills at competitive prices. And they are not Indian companies. 
 The $50 billion-a-year offshore outsourcing business was growing at a 29 percent annual rate until the credit crisis hit last fall, Mr. Bourgeois said. But he now forecasts growth in 2009 to be about 10 percent.
 The impact on other Indian outsourcing companies is unclear, but analysts say that, long term, the fraud could have wide implications. The scandal at Satyam -- a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange and audited by an American accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers -- raises doubts about other Indian companies.
 ''This is a crisis of trust,'' said Frances Karamouzis, an analyst at Gartner. ''It's not really Satyam at stake; it's the India Inc. brand.'' 
 The big Indian outsourcers like Tata Consulting Services, Infosys and Wipro could pick up business as a result of Satyam's travails. The same is true, analysts say, for Cognizant Technology Solutions, which has its headquarters in Teaneck, N.J., but most of its operations in India. 
 Yet in the business of outsourced technology services, where suppliers build and maintain a customer's vital software, reputation matters a lot. Companies often depend on their outsourcing suppliers to manage the technology behind basic tasks like billing, purchasing and customer relations. In the corporate market, it is said, customers are not buying technology, which can change rapidly, but buying a relationship with a supplier.
 For that reason, Ms. Karamouzis said, the odds are that the Indian government and the industry's powerful trade group, Nasscom, will develop a rescue package for Satyam, if necessary.
 For corporate customers, the crucial resource is the software developers at Satyam, far more than the corporate entity itself. Satyam's strongest business is maintaining and customizing so-called enterprise resource planning software, typically from SAP and Oracle, which runs the basic operations at companies.
 Ms. Karamouzis said Gartner's advice to clients was to identify by name the most important Satyam developers working on a company's outsourced software projects. Then, she said, companies must assess the risk at Satyam, which may include sending people to India for a first-hand look.
 In a letter to the Satyam board on Wednesday, Ramalinga Raju, the chairman and co-founder, said that the company's cash reserves were about $69 million, instead of the $1.1 billion reported last year.
 ''If they don't make payroll, there will be a mass exodus of employees,'' Ms. Karamouzis said.
 If Satyam remains intact, she said, companies may well want to offer bonuses to keep the important engineers working on their projects, instead of defecting to outsourcing rivals.
 The Satyam setback has occurred at a time when the once-torrid growth of the Indian technology outsourcing industry has been slowing significantly. The terrorist attacks in Mumbai last November and a stronger rupee, analysts say, have prompted some companies to look at lower-cost alternatives in China, Mexico and Brazil. 
 But the main reason is the sudden slowdown in the global economy, especially the crisis in the financial services sector, a large source of business for the Indian outsourcers.
 Yet when the global economy comes out of its slump, many analysts expect the growth of the leading Indian outsourcers to pick up, if not to the previous levels.
 ''The golden age of very high growth and financial returns is over,'' said John C. McCarthy, an analyst at Forrester Research. ''But Satyam and the current economic troubles do not change the fundamental economics of offshore outsourcing.''
 Forrester projects that the offshore outsourcing business will grow by 17 percent annually through 2012. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Bangalore campus of Infosys, one of several large technology services outsourcing operations in India that could pick up business as a result of the lost confidence in Satyam.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NAMAS BHOJANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); SCANDALS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (85%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); OFFSHORING (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (66%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (65%)

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (92%); SAP AG (81%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (71%); INFOSYS LTD (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%); COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORP (53%)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (92%); SAP (NYSE) (81%); SAP (FRA) (81%); SAP (BIT) (81%); INFY (NYSE) (56%); INFY (NSE) (56%); CTSH (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (71%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



273 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Lewis and Collins Look Ahead by Not Looking Back

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Owings Mills, Md. 

 BODY:
 Reporters tried mightily to get Kerry Collins and Ray Lewis to take a walk down memory lane to January 2001 and revisit Super Bowl XXXV.
 But Collins, then the Giants' quarterback, and Lewis, the Ravens' ferocious middle linebacker, were reluctant to take that walk. 
 ''They were phenomenal,'' Collins said this week, as he prepared to face Lewis's Ravens again, this time as Tennessee's quarterback, in the second round of the American Football Conference playoffs Saturday. ''That defense I think will be the best I've ever played.'' 
 Although playing in a Super Bowl is the highlight of every player's career, Collins's appearance came during a grueling personal struggle. He was dealing with life as a recovering alcoholic, having bounced from the Carolina Panthers to the New Orleans Saints before finding a temporary home with the Giants. 
 Lewis's struggle had more to do with youth, stardom and celebrity. In January 2000, he and two friends were charged with murder and aggravated assault in the aftermath of a post-Super Bowl party that left two men dead. Charges against Lewis were dropped, although the spectacle of a handcuffed Lewis in orange prison overalls left a lasting impression. 
 The Ravens dominated the Giants, 34-7. Collins had a miserable game, and Lewis was voted the most valuable player. The victory established Lewis as the defensive star of the new century and the loss cast Collins, however unfairly, as a fragile quarterback who would wilt under constant pounding. 
 But Lewis would pay a price for several seasons to come. He was not invited to Disney World -- a tradition for the Super Bowl's M.V.P. His image was not on the Wheaties box that celebrated the Ravens' Super Bowl championship. 
 Lewis and Collins are a study in how to rebuild an image and a career in an all-news-all-the-time culture that never forgets but will forgive, given the proper circumstances. 
 Lewis and Collins have rebuilt their careers and their reputations in the intervening eight years. 
 Asked this week about that game, Lewis didn't want to go back to 2001. Asked to compare the Ravens' current defense to the 2000 defense, he said: ''The only thing I can react about is what we're trying to go do this week. Like I said, for me to go back there, that's too far. That's too far.''
 What he said about the Ravens then and now could also apply to Lewis himself. He was 25 and sitting on top of the world when the Ravens won the Super Bowl. Lewis will turn 34 in May, and he has matured in many ways. Although Lewis may have lost a step since 2000, he is probably the smartest player on the Ravens' defense. 
 ''We've got a totally different mind-set,'' Lewis said. ''We're a totally different team than we were in 2000. Our job is to stay focused on the now.'' 
 Lewis and Collins have remade themselves. Collins has resurrected a career that seemed all but over after he was cut from the Giants and then from the awful Oakland Raiders. This season, Collins took over for the injured Vince Young and played his best football since his Giants days. 
 Lewis, while remaining a consistent force on the field, has reconstructed his off-field image. He has walked a straight and narrow path and used his Ray Lewis 52 Foundation as a vehicle to do everything from sponsoring annual Thanksgiving food drives, to providing economic assistance to disadvantaged children, to adopting families in the Baltimore area during the holidays. 
 ''Probably one of the biggest differences I see in Ray is his willingness to consider,'' Harry Swayne said Wednesday. Swayne was the Ravens' starting right tackle in Super Bowl XXXV. He was Lewis's teammate for two seasons. Swayne, a 15-year N.F.L. veteran, retired after the 2001 season. He served as the Chicago Bears' chaplain for four seasons and joined the Ravens this season as the assistant director of player programs. 
 The Ray Lewis he saw in 2008 and the Kerry Collins he will see Saturday have practically been reborn. 
 ''When you're a young guy, three, four years in the league, and can do anything physically, you really don't see a value in listening or considering anything somebody has said, even those who came before you,'' Swayne said. ''Then you go through something and you realize that life has just knocked me for a loop and here I am down on a knee and everybody's kicking. Let me find out who I am and where I want to go.''
 Michael Vick, the former Atlanta Falcons quarterback, will soon face the task of rebuilding a career and an image. Vick was one of the N.F.L.'s biggest stars before he was convicted in 2007 for his participation in a dogfighting ring. Vick could be released by July and could be given an opportunity to play again.
 Nothing can completely erase the past -- not victories, not great athletic performances.
 ''Yesterday is gone,'' Lewis told reporters Tuesday. ''Let's leave it there.'' 
 But Collins and Lewis illustrate that there is a road to redemption. 
 For them, the road passes through Nashville. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ray Lewis, left, and Baltimore earned an emphatic victory over the Giants and Kerry Collins in Super Bowl XXXV in 2001.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT LAFORET/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (91%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (88%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); MURDER (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (67%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); BALTIMORE RAVENS (93%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (56%); CAROLINA PANTHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%) TENNESSEE, USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



274 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: After 21 Seasons With the Braves, Smoltz Will Join the Red Sox

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

 BODY:
For 21 seasons, John Smoltz worked for the Atlanta Braves. He started for them, he closed for them and he helped them win a World Series title. Smoltz was as synonymous with the Braves as any player with any major league team. But that association ended Thursday, when he agreed to terms with the Boston Red Sox.
 Smoltz thought that he might stay with the Braves for his entire career and do what Greg Maddux and Tom Glavine, his former teammates, did not. Instead, at 41, Smoltz switched teams and leagues and is diving into the passionate world of the Red Sox. If Smoltz passes a physical, he will get a one-year contract for $5.5 million and the chance to earn about $5 million in incentives. 
 Because Smoltz had major shoulder surgery last June, it is impossible to know how effective he can still be. The Braves, who were flooded with pitching injuries last year, did not want to guarantee Smoltz much more than $2 million. The Red Sox were willing to take a risk on Smoltz, a former Cy Young Award winner, in hopes that it would yield a major reward.
 Perhaps the Braves never expected Smoltz to depart; Terry McGuirk, their chief operating officer, told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution he was ''shocked and surprised'' by Smoltz's decision. McGuirk said that Atlanta's offer included incentives that would have enabled Smoltz to earn about $10 million if he pitched capably. But the Red Sox offered more guaranteed money and incentives that were more easily attainable.
 As the Braves reacted harshly to losing a franchise star, Smoltz felt the need to respond, too. Smoltz issued a statement through his agent, Lonnie Cooper, to dispute the ''misperceptions and inaccuracies'' regarding his negotiations with the Braves.
 ''There were large discrepancies between the offers from the Braves and the offers from other teams,'' Smoltz said.
 While the Yankees have invested $223.5 million to add the free-agent starters C. C. Sabathia and A. J. Burnett, the Red Sox have taken a much more economical route to sign two pitchers. Besides Smoltz, the Red Sox signed Brad Penny to a one-year, $5 million deal. Penny is trying to rebound from a shoulder injury and a dreadful season.
 In addition to Smoltz, the Red Sox have signed outfielder Rocco Baldelli as a reserve. The Red Sox hope that Baldelli, whose mitochondrial disorder has been reassessed as channelopathy, which is considered more manageable, will be able to play more regularly than he did with the Tampa Bay Rays last season. He batted .263 in 28 games. Injuries have limited Baldelli to 155 games in the last four seasons.
 Like Smoltz, Baldelli had spent his entire career with the same team. In Baldelli's case, it was only the last six seasons with Tampa Bay. Baldelli, who is from Rhode Island, acknowledged during the postseason that he did not grow up an ardent Red Sox fan. Now his new baseball address is Fenway Park.
 By adding Smoltz and Penny, the Red Sox have seven starters, including Josh Beckett, Daisuke Matsuzaka, Jon Lester, the knuckleballer Tim Wakefield and the disappointing Clay Buchholz. If Boston does not make any other rotation moves, Smoltz, Penny and Buchholz would presumably compete for the fifth spot in the rotation. Smoltz might not be ready to pitch until more than a month into the season. 
 The Red Sox understand that they need more than five starters to navigate through the season so they are willing to be patient with Smoltz and Penny to see if either can duplicate their past success. Smoltz, who pitched 28 innings last year, has a 210-147 record and 154 saves in his career.
 Until Smoltz tests his shoulder in spring training, the Red Sox will not know if they secured the old Smoltz or a deteriorated Smoltz. At the very least, his rehabilitation began in promising fashion. Bobby Cox, the Braves' manager, watched Smoltz's initial mound session last month and said he was impressed.
 ''He loves challenges, and he's got a big one ahead of him,'' Cox said at the winter meetings. ''But what I saw for the very first time out off the mound was incredibly good.''
 Smoltz has been a versatile, successful and resilient pitcher the last two decades and will almost certainly join Maddux and Glavine in the Hall of Fame some day. He debuted as a 21-year-old in 1988, helped the Braves win it all in 1991 and went 24-8 with a 2.94 earned run average to win the Cy Young Award in 1996. 
 After Smoltz became a closer and had reconstructive elbow surgery in 2001, he returned to save 55 games in 2002. Smoltz saved 89 more games in the next two years before returning to the rotation in 2005. He was a workhouse for the next three seasons, averaging 15 wins and 222 innings. 
 With Smoltz's departure, Atlanta's fruitless off-season continues. The Braves failed to acquire San Diego's Jake Peavy, did not sign Burnett and lost Rafael Furcal to the Dodgers after dubious negotiations with his agents. Now the Braves are pursuing Derek Lowe. 
 But the Braves never had Peavy or Burnett, and they only thought they had Furcal. The loss of Smoltz, even with his uncertain future, is much different. The Braves had Smoltz, a reliable pitcher and a constant for their staff, since 1988. Now Smoltz is gone, off to the Red Sox. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the decision by the veteran pitcher John Smoltz to join the Boston Red Sox after spending two decades with Atlanta misstated the year he ''helped the Braves win it all'' in the World Series. It was 1995, not 1991.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Smoltz pitching in 1989 against San Francisco. Boston offered Smoltz a one-year deal for a guaranteed $5.5 million.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OTTO GREULE JR./GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS INJURIES (77%); ATHLETES (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (65%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



275 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Easy Loans Financed Dividends

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
''Dividends don't lie.''
 Chalk up the death of another Wall Street cliche.
 In the late bull market, dividend payments provided one of the seemingly strongest arguments for the bulls. Maybe earnings numbers could be manipulated, but dividend payments required cash. If the company had the cash to hand out, you could be confident the earnings were real.
 It was a lie. 
 It is now becoming clear that the great news on the dividend front from 2004 through 2006 was not an indication of solid corporate performance; it was just another sign of lax lending standards. Lenders who willingly handed out money to homeowners with bad credit were even more generous to corporate borrowers.
 Now the situation has reversed. The quarter just ended had the worst dividend news for American companies in half a century, and this quarter could be even worse. Many corporate boards review annual performance and decide what to do about the dividend during the first two months of each year, and it is not likely to be a happy time.
 Until those meetings are completed, buying stocks for their high dividend yields may be risky. 
 ''Investors need to be careful of overly generous yields,'' said Howard Silverblatt of Standard & Poor's, pointing to the possibility that more cuts will soon be announced.
 In the final three months of 2008, S.& P. counted 288 announcements by public American companies of dividend reductions or eliminations, in contrast to 239 companies that either initiated or raised their payouts. It was the first time since 1958 that there were more negative announcements than positive ones.
 In the boom years of 2004 through 2006, there were fewer than 100 negative announcements each year -- the three best years in that regard since S.& P. started collecting data in 1955. 
 Companies appeared to be flush with cash during those days, but some of that was a mirage stemming from optimistic accounting, particularly at banks. In other cases, the cash was real but it did not stay in corporate treasuries very long. Wall Street was preaching the doctrine of shareholder value, and corporate America bought shares back at an unprecedented rate.
 From the fourth quarter of 2004 through the third quarter of 2008, the companies in the S.& P. 500 -- generally the largest companies in the country -- reported net earnings of $2.4 trillion. They paid $900 billion in dividends, but they also repurchased $1.7 trillion in shares.
 As a group, shareholders were paid about $200 billion more than their companies earned over that four-year period. Suffering investors who held onto their shares during the 2008 plunge may want to reflect on the fact that investors who were dumping shares got roughly twice as much of the money as the loyal holders did.
 It was not only public companies that were able to pay dividends with cash that might have come from lenders rather than profits. Private equity firms were able to bolster their returns by having companies they owned borrow more money and use the cash to pay dividends. Now some of those same companies are struggling to find cash to finance operations.
 The pain from the excessive payouts to shareholders from years past will be amplified by the fact that corporate loans have a lot in common with the exploding mortgages that came to dominate the home mortgage market before it collapsed.
 Until the recent boom, the vast majority of home mortgages called for the homeowner to make monthly payments for up to 30 years, with the loan paid off by the time the payments stopped. With fixed-rate mortgages, the payment was constant, so a homeowner who kept his or her job could repay the loan even if the home's value fell. Even with adjustable-rate mortgages, there would be no increased payment unless market interest rates rose.
 The new mortgages ended that. Some were known as 3-27 or 2-28 mortgages, with a teaser interest rate for the first two or three years, and then a sharp increase in payment no matter what happened to market rates. Others were interest-only, or called for payments of even less than the interest being accrued. The common thread was that the borrower would have to refinance at some point. Now, of course, many cannot. Their homes are not worth what is owed, or their income is not adequate to support such a loan under the tighter prevailing standards.
 In the business sector of the economy, similar loan terms were common. Many companies were financed by bank lines of credit that had to be renewed every few years. Even bond issues were only for 5 or 10 years. Most commercial real estate loans in recent years called for payments of just the interest, with the entire loan to be refinanced within 10 years.
 To make things seem even better during the good years, lenders were willing to lend larger sums, assuming that rents would rise rapidly in commercial buildings, or that profits would do the same at companies. Where that did not happen -- which is to say at most places -- many loans will not be able to be rolled over when they mature. Unnecessary bankruptcies loom.
 So did dividends lie? Perhaps they were simply misunderstood. Their real message from 2004 through 2006 was not that corporate America was doing so well. It was that lenders had embarked on an unsustainable credit expansion that was sure to end in tears.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Dividend cuts and omissions by American companies as a percentage of dividend increases, by quarter.(Source: Standard & Poor's) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVIDENDS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



276 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 3138 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE SEDUCTION OF LIGHT,' through March 29. Comparisons may be invidious, but they can also be illuminating. Consider this small, tightly focused exhibition of portraits by the 19th-century American folk artist Ammi Phillips and paintings by the 20th-century Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko. The presentation reveals parallel ways of dealing with surface, color and light. It also reveals two painters who were, each in his own pragmatic yet metaphysically resonant way, distinctly American artists. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. 
 (Ken Johnson) 
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'STREET ART STREET LIFE: FROM THE 1950S TO NOW,' through Jan. 25. If to you ''street life'' means noise-lights-action, you'll find this show a surprise. With its immaculate, stripped-down installation, the exhibition is clearly devoted not to recreating the feel of art on the street, but to recording it, from Robert Frank's unvarnished photographic views of post-World War II America to digital montages by Fatimah Tuggar uniting today's streets of New York and Lagos, Nigeria. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'RAQIB SHAW,' through March 1. In the phantasmagorical paintings of the artist Raqib Shaw, who was born in Calcutta and is based in London, Victorian fairies and Hindu deities mingle in settings inspired by Persian gardens and classical ruins. The works in this midcareer solo show also rely heavily on the 16th-century painter Hans Holbein the Younger and the 18th-century draftsman Giovanni Battista Piranesi, with mixed results. Of particular note is ''Absence of God IV ... The Blind Butterfly Catcher'' (2008), a 10-foot-long painting on gaboon-wood board in which animals and mythical beasts romp in a florid landscape. A small selection of Holbein's engravings are also on view. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. 
 (Karen Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM AT F.I.T.: 'GOTHIC: DARK GLAMOUR,' through Feb. 21. This paean to the persistent gothic strain in fashion includes costumes from the Victorian era to the present. Fashionistas will relish the chance to see famous creations by Olivier Theyskens, Anne Demeulemeester and other avant-garde designers. Readers of Poe, Shelley and other Romantic authors will enjoy seeing characters and settings come to life. And the eager consumers of adolescent vampire fantasies, from ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer'' to ''Twilight,'' will thrill to the clothes' sex-and-death subtext. Organized by Valerie Steele, the director of the Fashion Institute of Technology's museum, the show unfolds in a nightmarish mise-en-scene conceived by the British artist and set designer Simon Costin. Seventh Avenue at 27th Street, (212) 217-4560, fitnyc.edu. 
 (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PARIS/NEW YORK: DESIGN FASHION CULTURE, 1925-1940,' through Feb. 22. This compact yet kaleidoscopic exhibition celebrates the romance that flourished between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s, when French Art Deco was the style and American jazz was the music. Selected and installed to extract maximum wattage from every juxtaposition, object and image, it tracks the exchange of goods as much as of ideas, and the roles played by both department stores and museums, knockoffs and originals, businessmen and designers and artists. Most memorably, it clarifies a golden age of design and building, when New York became the world capital of Art Deco architecture. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Roberta Smith)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'ALFRED KUBIN: DRAWINGS, 1897-1909,' through Jan. 26. You would never guess that the Viennese artist Alfred Kubin was a contemporary of Gustav Klimt; he is closer in spirit to the Belgian James Ensor and the Norwegian Edvard Munch, visionaries who expressed modernity's spiritual toll and anticipated some of the horrors of the 20th century. Executed in black-and-white pen, ink and spray on heavy paper used for cartography, Kubin's drawings map the shadowy corners of the unconscious. Playing to the art's dark themes, the Neue Galerie's third floor has been made over in the sensationally macabre style of a Tim Burton movie. The walls are painted black and brown; red crushed-velvet curtains hang in the doorways; and Kubin's death mask is displayed in a coffinlike glass case. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'GINO DE DOMINICIS,' through Jan. 26. The first American survey of the work of the elusive Italian artist Gino De Dominicis (1947-1999) suggests that his art may be an acquired taste and provides some aid in its acquisition without quite closing the deal. The exhibition includes a few examples of Mr. De Dominicis's early Conceptually oriented work, including an announcement of his own death. Many of the paintings depict an anonymous beaked creature in monochrome colors; they suggest de Chirico competing with the abstraction of postwar Europeans like Yves Klein. The whole enterprise -- including a hyperbolic catalog -- raises questions about the plight of Italian contemporary artists, the burden of the Renaissance and the human need to proclaim genius, whether the anointment is deserved or not. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Smith)
 STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: BARKLEY L. HENDRICKS: 'BIRTH OF THE COOL,' through March 15. He did not birth the cool -- that was Miles Davis -- but Mr. Hendricks's suave portraits from the 1960s, '70s and early '80s give him the right to use this title for his five-decade retrospective. Mixing realism, abstraction and Pop, Mr. Hendricks's life-size paintings of beautiful black people in extravagantly fashionable outfits captured a period sensibility with uncanny acuity. Today, with portrait painters like Kehinde Wiley, Elizabeth Peyton and Chuck Close enjoying great popularity, Mr. Hendricks's work is back in style. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. 
 (Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'WILLIAM EGGLESTON: DEMOCRATIC CAMERA,' through Jan. 25. When William Eggleston's snapshotlike color photographs of his home territory in the American South were shown at the Museum of Modern Art in 1976, critics squawked that the work was vulgar and haphazard. But these pictures quickly became influential classics. And that's how they look in this 40-year retrospective at the Whitney, the artist's first New York museum solo since his seditious debut. The show includes a recently edited version of Mr. Eggleston's cruel, unusual and ultimately revolting video epic ''Stranded in Canton.'' (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'NEIL JENNEY: NEW PAINTINGS' With the works in this beautiful show, his first exhibition of new paintings in New York since 1998, Neil Jenney continues to create idiosyncratic landscapes with heavy black frames. Most surprising are two paintings of luminous blue skies with puffy, animal-shaped clouds in them and the word ''Atmosphere'' neatly lettered on each frame. Barbara Mathes Gallery, 22 East 80th Street, (212) 570-4190, bmathesgallery.com, through Jan. 24. (Johnson)
 Galleries: SoHo
 MATT MULLICAN: 'A DRAWING TRANSLATES THE WAY OF THINKING' Drawing for Mr. Mullican is a note-taking tool in a vast program of semiotic research. Much of the material displayed in this intermittently intriguing exhibition of more than 200 drawings, collages, photographs, watercolors and notebooks will mean less to the average viewer than it presumably does to the artist himself. A fascinating video of a Paul McCarthy-style performance suggests that Mr. Mullican is most interesting as a kind of highbrow clown. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org, through Feb. 5. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'HOW TO COOK A WOLF: PART ONE' A series of some 40 sex-linked artworks explore human desires of several kinds. The efforts range from relatively explicit to language-based to natural forms. The names include David Dupuis, Betty Tompkins, Nicolas Rule, Judith Hudson, Elizabeth Lennard and Philip Taaffe. There are more snakes than wolves, but whatever. It is a very entertaining show. Dinter Fine Art, 547 West 27th Street, (212) 947-2818, dinterfineart.com, through Jan. 31. (Smith)
 JOHN WESLEY: 'QUESTION OF WOMEN' The beauty of Mr. Wesley's paintings is as much in the abstraction as in the representation. The reduced palette of pinks, coral reds, black and sky blue; the sensuous flux of curvy contour lines; and the perfect fitting of large shapes into the rectangle of the canvas: combine all that with the tantalizing, cartoon imagery of women in suggestively erotic situations and you have paintings that are nearly impossible to look away from. Fredericks & Freiser, 536 West 24th Street, (212) 633-6555, fredericksfreisergallery.com, through Feb. 7. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Other
 LILY LUDLOW AND ALLEN CORDELL: 'SOWING CIRCLE' A three-screen film alternates black-and-white shots of nine women smoking, talking and sipping wine after a meal, with color views of each woman at home involved in mostly solitary, peaceful pursuits, like bathing, gardening or making coffee (except one who climbs a fire escape with a suitcase). Transitions are marked by animations of swirling smoke. The women, who include Chloe Sevigny, are perhaps a little too much of a glamorous BoHo type. Thoughts of the many joys of not being a man alternate with memories of the ''popular girls'' table in the high school cafeteria. Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, near Canal Street, Lower East Side, (212) 925-4631, canadanewyork.com, through Jan. 18. (Smith)
 'WITHOUT WALLS' Acknowledging its predilection for sculpture, Museum 52 invited 50 artists, including some painters, to exhibit floor pieces measuring no larger than 2 by 1 by 1 feet. The results dot the premises at regular, closely spaced intervals and exemplify the current interest in abject, mostly abstract bricolage; it is like a Whitney Biennial, only shrunk. Museum 52, 95 Rivington Street, near Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 228-3090, museum52.com, through Jan. 17. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'ART AND CHINA'S REVOLUTION' The splashy party that was the 2008 Olympics is yesterday's news, but one-party rule in China remains. New China is still, in significant ways, Old China. The obvious question is: What comes next? To help answer it, Asia Society asks a different, equally timely post-Olympics question: What came before? This exhibition of paintings, drawings, posters and Maoist souvenirs produced in the years leading up to and during the Cultural Revolution gives complicated answers. It lays out the conflicted loyalties that have shaped contemporary China, and finds them in the work of artists who anticipated the current art boom and are part of it. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GILBERT & GEORGE' Dynamic duo, gruesome twosome or just plain geeks in ties and tweeds, the British artists Gilbert & George don't seem to care what you call them as long as you pay attention, which you couldn't avoid doing if you tried in their suffocating and disordered wraparound survey at the Brooklyn Museum. In no particular sequence, we see the shadowy early black-and-white photographic pieces they did while living in a falling-down section of London in the 1970s, and the huge Pop colored murals filled with flowers and crowds of dishy young men, which decrease in number during the most devastating years of the AIDS epidemic. The newest work in the show, from 2005 and 2006, is crazy, end-of-time stuff. Terrorism and religious fundamentalism are the themes, and Gilbert and George themselves, partners in art as in life, are in the picture, mugging, moralizing, unembarrassed and all but unendurable, in art that's right for right now. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 'FRANKENTHALER AT EIGHTY: SIX DECADES'Helen Frankenthaler's longtime gallery is giving her an 80th-birthday party. With nine large-scale works from the artist's personal collection, covering more than five decades, the show takes the form of a mini-retrospective. (A more substantial museum survey is long overdue.) The earliest work is ''Western Dream,'' a maelstrom of lavender-and-coral stains on unprimed canvas; the newest is ''Warming Trend,'' a near-monochrome field of indigo with fiery undertones. Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550, knoedlergallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Rosenberg)
 TRENTON DOYLE HANCOCK: 'FEAR' The latest eye-popping art environment from this talented artist simplifies his epic, racially charged battles and prunes the build-up of eccentric materials usual to his collage paintings. Variations on a cartoonish, frightened face lay out the artist's considerable formal arsenal while also suggesting that we unfortunately have plenty to fear besides fear itself. A painting of a large black hand riddled with stigmata, and titled ''The Bad Promise,'' makes good on Mr. Hancock's debt to artists like R. Crumb and Philip Guston. As much drawing as painting, it is an astounding sight. James Cohan Gallery, 533 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 714-9500, jamescohan.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 AL HELD An awesome blast of light, color, space and geometry awaits visitors to this exhibition of six paintings dating from 1979 to 1985 by Mr. Held (1928-2005). Rendered in richly saturated and incandescent colors, these expansive, hard-edged pictures of grids, boxes, wheels and serpentine loops, interpenetrating and receding into infinite, Euclidean distances, are like visions of a neo-
 Platonist on acid. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 GULNARA KASMALIEVA AND MURATBEK DJUAMLIEV: 'A NEW SILK ROAD' In a five-channel video commissioned by the Art Institute of Chicago, an artist team from the Kyrgyz Republic documents with bare-bones lyricism and exquisite editing the struggling economies that have sprung in this former Soviet republic along one of the original Silk Roads. Ancient trucks as rusty as their cargo take junk to China; pristine Chinese trucks bearing factory goods come the other way. Makeshift villages along the way provide food, housing and the occasional song, all against a stunningly austere landscape. The bottom line? We will survive, and make art too. Winkleman Gallery, 637 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 643-3152, winkleman.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 JAN MANCUSKA The predilection for fusing language, sculpture and space results in two filmed dialogues projected on a screen flanked by walls of modernist Czech furniture, and a written exchange that unfolds on a long line of teacups, teapots, ashtrays and glasses. In all cases the conversations are circular, self-referential and generic, with things like stage directions or pauses included. The works are more puzzlelike and cerebral than previous efforts, but worth the time. Andrew Kreps Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-8849, andrewkreps.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JOAN MIRO: PAINTING AND ANTI-PAINTING 1927-1937' When, in 1927, Joan Miro said, ''I want to assassinate painting,'' he wasn't saying anything new. What was new was the way he carried out his self-assigned, cut-throat task. And that process is the subject of this invigorating, absorbing and -- Miro would be mortified -- beautiful show. It illustrates, step by step, how he stalked and attacked painting -- zapped its conventions, messed up its history, spoiled its market value -- through distinctive groups of experimental works produced over a decade. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Cotter)
 NEW MUSEUM: 'LIVE FOREVER: ELIZABETH PEYTON' This lush midcareer survey pays tribute to an artist whose diminutive, irony-free, boldly colored portraits of friends, artists, rock stars and other historic figures, living and dead, have exerted considerable influence over the last 16 years. The reason is a complex, highly effective fusion of the painterly, the personal and the Conceptual, as well as a kind of reverse appropriation, wherein photographs and snapshots are given a new permanence, substance and most of all feeling by being re-engineered into unique art objects. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 PAT PLACE: 'THE END, 1981-INFINITY' The photographs of Pat Place, the artist and founder of the band Bush Tetras, give you appropriation art in the raw, without high production values. Affixed to unframed sheets of paper is a selection of the more than a thousand photographs of movie end titles that Ms. Place has shot (from television) since 1981. Minus the glamour of enlargement, lamination or glazing, the basic anthropological evidence nonetheless illuminates the vagaries of a slight but essential convention, the changing tastes and technologies of film and something of the times themselves. Jane Kim/Thrust Projects, 114 Bowery, near Grand Street, Lower East Side, (212) 431-4802, thrustprojects.com; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 CHARLOTTE POSENENSKE: 'PROTOTYPES FOR MASS PRODUCTION (1965-1967)' The works in this exhibition -- simple geometric forms made of folded sheet metal and painted in black and primary-colored enamels -- were intended to be mass-produced, sold at cost and displayed in public. Ms. Posenenske quit making art in 1968 when she concluded that it could not make enough of a political difference in the world, but her sculptures still have a bright, Pop Art-like punch. Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson) 
 PETER SUTHERLAND: 'BLAME IT ON THE DOG' As seen in his New York gallery debut, Peter Sutherland's off-hand aesthetic might be summed up as fun with cameras, but not too much. On view are rugs based on photographs, photo-collages and reprises of 1970s Story Art. Images of post-hippie rural America dominate, often with titles that add sudden focus, unexpected meaning or wistful humor. Mr. Sutherland's work celebrates the artistic possibilities implicit in the most pedestrian and barren facts of American life. Every instant is a possible image, every image a likely story. ATM Gallery, 621 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 375-0349, atmgallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); STREET ART (79%); ADOLESCENTS (67%); FASHION & APPAREL (63%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (63%); WORLD WAR II (51%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); KOLKATA, INDIA (74%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (74%); NIGERIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



277 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Now That Krstic Is Back, Will Others Follow?

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK; Jonathan Abrams contributed reporting from Oklahoma City.

 BODY:
Nenad Krstic journeyed 4,695 miles and crossed 8 time zones to find financial satisfaction. He had to go 5,627 miles in the opposite direction to find professional happiness.
 The basketball odyssey stretched from East Rutherford, N.J., to Moscow, then doubled back and dropped Krstic in Oklahoma City, where he recently joined the relocated, woebegone team now known as the Thunder. It is not the biggest spot on the N.B.A. map, nor the brightest, but at least it is on the N.B.A. map.
 ''I'm really happy now to be back,'' said Krstic, a 25-year-old center who previously played for the Nets. ''It's a good team for me.''
 Last summer, Krstic was part of a minor trans-Atlantic exodus, in which about a dozen players left the N.B.A. for teams in Europe. Two weeks ago, Krstic became the first of them to return, leaving Triumph Moscow to sign with Oklahoma City, the N.B.A.'s worst team at 5-31. 
 Others could soon follow. With a shaky world economy, several European teams, particularly those in Russia, are struggling to make payroll. Players are being paid late, if at all. N.B.A. teams are watching closely, and preparing to pounce if more quality players break free of their contracts.
 ''There are some situations where they're only paying the foreign players on time, and the domestic players are being asked to kind of understand the situation and get paid in due time,'' said Bryan Colangelo, the Toronto Raptors' general manager. ''And then there's some situations that might even be worse than that.''
 No one expects a mass reverse exodus, at least not immediately. But team executives believe that at least two more players, guards Jannero Pargo and Carlos Delfino, could return to the N.B.A. this season. They are playing in Russia, Pargo with Dynamo Moscow and Delfino with Khimki BC.
 Josh Childress was the most high-profile player to defect last summer, snubbing the Atlanta Hawks to play in Greece. He does not intend to return this season, according to his representatives. But he will probably entertain N.B.A. offers this summer, when he has the chance to exercise an out clause in his contract with Olympiacos.
 Money was the driving force behind last summer's celebrated player migration. The players who left were all journeymen -- sixth-man types and role players -- who were frustrated by a tight N.B.A. market. They found better deals overseas, where the strength of the euro, the absence of a salary cap and (in some cases) the absence of payroll taxes translated into greater riches.
 Marc Cornstein, Krstic's agent, called it ''a perfect storm.''
 ''The N.B.A. was really pulling back,'' he said. ''The euro was valued at 1.60 to the dollar. Oil prices were at $140 a barrel, which drove the Russian market. Some of the money was tax free. There were other perks. You had teams like Triumph that never were thought of before that now were spending real money.''
 That is how Krstic, a native of Serbia who played four seasons in New Jersey, wound up in Moscow. The Nets declined to offer Krstic a multiyear deal, because they are saving cap space for the 2010 free-agent class. His status as a restricted free agent handicapped his negotiating position around the league.
 So Krstic signed a two-year deal with Triumph for a reported six million euros -- the equivalent of about $9.4 million at the time. Contrary to some reports, Krstic was paid on time and in full, he said. But he found the experience lacking on every other level. The travel was harder, the crowds smaller and the quality of play underwhelming.
 ''Our record was really bad and we didn't play good,'' Krstic said. ''We didn't play like a team. The coach didn't give me the role I expected to have.''
 Krstic, a skilled shooter, said there were nights when he played just 10 to 15 minutes and got three shots -- ''and we were losing,'' he reiterated.
 Krstic had always intended to return to the N.B.A., just not this soon. He could have opted out of his Triumph contract after the season, but the team agreed to a buyout to ease the strain on its payroll.
 ''They said after the new year they would have more problems paying me,'' Krstic said. ''And if they let me go, they are going to collect more money for other players.''
 For the Thunder, a franchise still carving an identity after leaving Seattle last summer, landing Krstic is a minor coup. The Nets viewed Krstic as a rising star before he sustained a season-ending knee injury in December 2006. At the time, he was averaging 16.4 points and 6.8 rebounds a game.
 The Nets still think highly of Krstic, but re-signing him would have hurt their efforts to clear salary-cap space for 2010. They declined to match the Thunder's three-year, $15.6 million offer.
 ''We had had an interest in him and were following him and tracking him, like several other teams,'' said Sam Presti, the Thunder's general manager.
 Now all eyes are on Pargo and Delfino. The Russian economy has been especially hard hit because of the large drop in oil prices. Pargo, who is playing on a one-year, $4 million deal, has been late in getting paid.
 ''I would say that it's sort of a day-to-day situation,'' said Mark Bartelstein, Pargo's agent.
 Although he would not offer details about Pargo's ability to break the contract, Bartelstein acknowledged, ''There's some things that could drive him back economically'' to the N.B.A. 
 ''And there's a lot of N.B.A. teams that would love to get him,'' Bartelstein said.
 Several teams have been mentioned as potential suitors -- including the Los Angeles Lakers, who gave the undrafted Pargo his first N.B.A. contract in 2002. Pargo averaged 11.9 points as the New Orleans Hornets' sixth man last season and would be a valuable bench player for any playoff-bound team.
 Bartelstein said that Pargo was enjoying his experience in Moscow but that he intended to be back in the N.B.A. by next season, if not sooner.
 Delfino, who played for Toronto last season, has been paid on time by his Russian team, Colangelo said. There were indications that Delfino might leave after he clashed with the Khimki coach, but the team has since changed coaches.
 Still, it was money that drove players from the N.B.A. to Europe, and it will probably be money that drives them back. Most will wait until the off-season, when N.B.A. teams have more roster flexibility and salary-cap space.
 ''They get over there and just making all that money is not what it's made out to be,'' Colangelo said. ''They still want to be in the N.B.A.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nenad Krstic, a former Net, with the Thunder's general manager, Sam Presti, after leaving Triumph Moscow last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH PHIPPS/THE OKLAHOMAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%) OKLAHOMA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%); GEORGIA, USA (52%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (76%); GREECE (56%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



278 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1090 words

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Who's to say if anyone will feel like shopping next month when Sotheby's and Christie's hold their Impressionist, modern and contemporary art auctions in London? Considerably smaller in size and scope than the dismal November sales in New York, they will nonetheless have at least a few noteworthy paintings, sculptures and drawings with estimates that are purposely conservative to tempt even the most price-conscious collector. 
 Betting that the appetite for German Expressionist painters is as hearty as it was before the economic crisis, Sotheby's has put one of Ernst Ludwig Kirchner's Berlin street scenes on the cover of its Feb. 3 Impressionist and modern art sale catalog. 
 The image is a timely one. The Museum of Modern Art in New York held ''Kirchner and the Berlin Street,'' a much-praised exhibition that closed in November, and the Brucke Museum in Berlin is showing ''Ernst Ludwig Kirchner in Berlin'' until March 15. 
 The painting that Sotheby's is selling -- ''Street Scene,'' from 1913 -- was not in either exhibition. It was last publicly seen at Sotheby's London 11 years ago as part of a group of Fauve and German Expressionist works that were sold by Charles Tabachnick, a Toronto collector. It fetched $3.3 million, a record price at the time. That buyer, whom Sotheby's refused to identify, is selling the painting next month. 
 ''That was a groundbreaking sale,'' said Helena Newman, vice chairwoman of Sotheby's Impressionist and modern art department worldwide. ''It was the first time German Expressionist art was put center stage, and it made a record price that set off an extraordinary period of growth in the German Expressionist market.'' 
 Sotheby's expects the painting to bring $7.2 million to $10.1 million. ''It relates most directly to one in the Museum of Modern Art,'' Ms. Newman said. That painting, ''Street, Berlin,'' is also from 1913. The canvases share many of the same compositional and stylistic elements -- both depict mannequinlike passers-by, with a man peering into a shop window on the right -- but in the Sotheby's painting, two female figures are staring straight ahead rather than in profile. 
 Kirchner's Berlin street scenes are among his most celebrated images. The artist, from Dresden, first visited Berlin in 1910 and moved there in 1911. From 1913 to 1915 he produced 11 street scenes. Except for one that Kirchner began in 1911 and repainted in 1922 and that Christie's sold in London in 2006 for $3.8 million, this is the only remaining street scene in private hands. The rest are in museums around the world. 
 In New York in November 2006, Christie's sold another Berlin street scene from 1913-14 for a record $38 million. The buyer, who had the help of an anonymous friend, was Ronald S. Lauder, a founder of the Neue Galerie in Manhattan. The painting, of an urban crowd with a prostitute in a bright red dress, has been on and off the walls of the Neue Galerie ever since. Although it is not on view now, it will be beginning Feb. 26 as part of '' The Birth of Expressionism: Brucke in Dresden and Berlin, 1905-1913.'' 
 That painting was particularly pricey because it is much larger than the one on sale now -- it measures 47.6 by 37.4 inches, compared with Sotheby's painting, which is 28 by 20.4 inches -- and a far richer canvas. 
 Knowing the chances are slim that another Berlin street scene by Kirchner will be on the market anytime soon, Ms. Newman said she thought that despite the glum global economy the painting would appeal to European, American and possibly even Russian collectors. ''There is still a strong demand for colorful, strong Expressionist works,'' she said. 
 To entice New York collectors, the painting, along with other highlights from the February London sales, will be on view Tuesday through Thursday at Sotheby's in New York. 
 NEW AT JEWISH MUSEUM
 Changes are taking place at the Jewish Museum, some of them more visible than others. For starters, the scaffolding that has swathed the 1908 limestone mansion on Fifth Avenue at 92nd Street since November 2007 will be removed by the end of Friday. The $2 million project, of which $1.7 million came from the New York City Council, the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs and the mayor's office, included restoring and cleaning the facade and repairing the roof. 
 Not so obvious, however, is the museum's recently updated Web site, thejewishmuseum.org. It now includes a far more comprehensive section devoted to its permanent collection and can be perused in numerous ways -- thematically, historically or artist by artist. Images along with scholarly information are available for 600 works; 2,000 more will be added over the year. The site also now has educational resources for teachers and a ''Kid Zone'' for children 3 to 8. The initiative was motivated by online surveys and other research.
 FIND THE WORK ONLINE
 The future of catalogues raisonnes, Marc Glimcher argues, is online rather than in printed form. So Mr. Glimcher, who is president of the PaceWildenstein gallery, founded Artifex Press, a publishing company dedicated to the creation of digital catalogues raisonnes, starting with artists his gallery represents. The first group includes the estates of Sol LeWitt and Agnes Martin as well as artists like Chuck Close, John Chamberlain, Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen, Mr. Oldenburg's wife. (The online catalogs of 25 other artists and estates are to follow.) 
 The idea, Mr. Glimcher said, came from artists who kept asking him for better record-keeping of their work. Each catalogue raisonne will also have an editor overseeing the project. Eventually, he added, he hopes artists from other galleries will want Artifex Press to publish their catalogues raisonnes online too. The public will at a later date be able to access each catalogue raisonne for a fee. 
 ''I don't know what it will cost,'' Mr. Glimcher said. ''Probably a few hundred dollars a year.'' 
 Artifex Press isn't Mr. Glimcher's first publishing venture. In 2001 he began PaperBall, a subsidiary of PaceWildenstein, which organized traveling exhibitions, published books and licensed artist-designed products. It also managed the Bellagio Gallery of Fine Art in Las Vegas. 
 ''Our work in Las Vegas was so labor-intensive that it became our focus,'' said Andrea Bundonis Glimcher, director of communications and Mr. Glimcher's wife, noting that for each show PaperBall would publish 50,000 to 80,000 catalogs. The company, she added, ended a year ago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Expressionist Berlin: ''Street Scene'' (1913) by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner will be auctioned by Sotheby's London, which expects it to fetch $7.2 million to $10.1 million.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); PAINTING (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (91%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



279 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

 BODY:
FOR CHILDREN
 LAUREL GRAEBER 
 'THE BLUE BIRD' (Sunday) The title refers to that all too rare species, the Blue Bird of Happiness, which is the object of a quest in this 1918 silent-film fantasy by Maurice Tourneur. Presented by the Film Society of Lincoln Center as part of the Dance on Camera series, the movie features two children and a fairy who are involved in an Oz-like adventure. To be screened with live piano accompaniment by Ben Model, the film still has its original color tints. At 2 p.m., the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5601, filmlinc.com; $11; $8 for 62+; $7 for ages 6 through 12 and members.20090108 
 MEG CABOT AND 'FOREVER PRINCESS' (Friday) Meg Cabot is a native Midwesterner, but to legions of girls she will always be royalty. The author of the popular ''Princess Diaries'' series of novels, Ms. Cabot will appear at the New York Public Library to discuss ''Forever Princess,'' the 10th and final book in the line. But she will keep writing, and the library will keep producing events for teenagers. To raise funds for just that purpose, more than 25 authors, illustrators and other famous people have designed tiaras (the ''Princess'' symbol), which are being auctioned online through Jan. 31 at tiaras.cmarket.com. At 7 p.m., Fifth Avenue at 42nd Street, nypl.org; free.20090108
 'CRANKED' (Friday through Sunday) Crank is street slang for methamphetamine, which has taken over the life of Stan, the 17-year-old at the heart of this one-man play by Michael Northey. A rap star also known as Definition, Stan, played by Kyle Cameron, uses hip-hop rhythms to tell the story of his addiction and attempted comeback. Part of the New Vic at the Duke series, the New Victory Theater's program for tween and teenage audiences, ''Cranked'' includes post- performance discussions with Mr. Cameron and the production company, Green Thumb Theater. (Through Jan. 25.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m., the Duke on 42nd Street Theater, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, newvictory.org; $25; $17.50 for members.20090108
 'DEAR EDWINA' (Friday through Monday) What if Ann Landers had been a child -- and she could sing? Then she might have been Edwina Spoonapple, the young heroine of this new musical by Zina Goldrich and Marcy Heisler (''Junie B. Jones''). Edwina is an advice columnist who delivers her counsel tunefully, with the help of her friends, and this show details her quest to be in a festival. Monday night will also feature ''Dear Edwina Encores,'' in which Ms. Goldrich and Ms. Heisler will deliver a post-show performance of additional material, including numbers that never made it into the production; they will also answer questions from the audience. (Through Jan. 25.) Friday at 5 and 7 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m. and 1 and 4 p.m., with an additional Saturday performance at 7 p.m.; Monday at 7 p.m.; DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, dearedwina.com; $39.20090108
 'GOLLY GEE WHIZ' (Friday through Sunday) It's no accident that the main characters in the opening production of Tada! Youth Theater's season are named Judy and Mickey. This musical, a revival from 1999, captures the high spirits of 1930s pop culture, when stars like Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney were all the rage. The action takes place in 1939 in Happyville, where the teenage residents decide to boost the economy by putting on a show. (Maybe it will give audience members a few ideas.) (Through Feb. 15.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 2 and 4 p.m.; 15 West 28th Street, Manhattan, second floor, (212) 252-1619, Ext. 128, tadatheater.com; $20; $8 for ages 15 and under; premium tickets (with preferred seating), $25 and $15.20090108
 'HARRY THE DIRTY DOG' (Saturday and Sunday) Manhattan Children's Theater has revived this 45-minute show, which is a delight for ages 3 to 8 and a source of solace to parents. After all, what if all their bath-hating toddlers were dogs? The play, adapted by Karen Abbott from Gene Zion's book of the same title, follows the adventures of the title character, a usually amiable mutt who has a strong antipathy for soap and water. Harry's story includes encounters with a construction crew, railroad workers, surfer dudes and stray dogs. (Through Feb. 22.) At noon and 2 p.m., 52 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com; $20.20090108
 'HOUSE ABOUT IT' (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) This exhibition gives new meaning to playing house. Created by the Staten Island Children's Museum, the show, whose centerpiece is a child-size house under construction, introduces young visitors to all aspects of the building trades. Activity stations include an architect's office, a space to examine foundation materials and a workbench to practice sawing and drilling. The house offers opportunities for tiling and shingling, and a dollhouse lets young decorators ponder fabrics and furnishings. Hours: Friday, and Tuesday through Thursday, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, (718) 273-2060, statenislandkids.org. Free with admission: $5; free for members.20090108
 KIDROCKERS (Sunday) It's hard to imagine mature, self-respecting childless adults wanting -- much less needing -- to sneak into a kids' show. But Beth Lorge has met such desperate grown-ups. Now consider that the groups playing at the concerts Ms. Lorge produces (for ages 3 to 13) are hot or up-and-coming rock bands, and you can understand it. On Sunday she is presenting a double bill of Vivian Girls, an underground trio, and the Bones Royal, rockers from the Lower East Side. The comedians Seth Herzog and Craig Baldo will be hosts. (Adults must be accompanied by a child.) At 1 p.m., the Living Room, 154 Ludlow Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, kidrockersusa.com; $12 in advance; $15 at the door. (Tickets include a one-year subscription to Time Out New York Kids.)20090108
 'KIDS 'N COMEDY' (Sunday) The class clown gets applause, not detention, at this series, in which comics ages 13 to 18 perform stand-up. The shows are recommended for children 9 and older, but there's no need to worry about appropriateness (profanity is banned) or knock-knock jokes. (These dudes are sophisticated.) At 1 p.m. Gotham Comedy Club, 208 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 877-6115, kidsncomedy.com; $15, with a one-soda minimum. Reservations required.20090108
 ELIZABETH MITCHELL AND YOU ARE MY FLOWER (Sunday) This concert is a family affair. Elizabeth Mitchell, who specializes in creating children's versions of classic folk tunes, will perform with her husband, Daniel Littleton, and their daughter, Storey. Mom and Dad sing and play the guitar; Storey sings and plays the harmonica. It's all for the delight of folk-rock fans ages 2 to 7. At 2 p.m., the Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3337, thejewishmuseum.org; $15; $10 for children; $12 and $8 for family-level members.20090108
 PRESERVATION DETECTIVES' FAMILY TOURS (Sunday) The Lower East Side has transformed over the last century, but the past still comes vibrantly alive in many of its corners. One is the Eldridge Street Synagogue, the landmark 1887 building where many Jewish immigrants worshiped. Now the Museum at Eldridge Street, the organization that restored the synagogue, is leading a family tour every Sunday. Children 5 to 10 can view artifacts, learn neighborhood and cultural lore and role-play a little history. At 1 p.m., 12 Eldridge Street, between Canal and Division Streets, (212) 219-0302, eldridgestreet.org; $10; $8 for students and 62+; $6 for ages 5 through 18.20090108
 PUPPET-MAKING WORKSHOP (Saturday) Lucrecia Novoa is used to working with witches and monsters, but she will welcome some cheerier types at this program from the Bronx Council on the Arts. A master puppeteer, Ms. Novoa will lead children in making royal puppets to celebrate Three Kings Day and Little Christmas. She will also introduce some of her own fantasy creations. From noon to 3 p.m., Huntington Free Library, 9 Westchester Square, the Bronx, (718) 829-7770. Free, but space is limited; reservations are required via phone or e-mail to lisa@bronxarts.org 20090108

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); MUSICAL THEATER (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); METHAMPHETAMINE (69%); RAP MUSIC (67%); ADVICE COLUMNS (67%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); THEATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



280 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Gas Cut by Kremlin Highlights U.S. Concern Over Russian Intentions

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER; Ellen Barry contributed reporting from Moscow.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Russia pinches natural-gas supplies bound for Europe, senior American officials acknowledge they have little power to persuade the Kremlin to change course.
 But natural-gas shortages this winter may prompt the Europeans to listen more intently to a case Washington has made for years: that relying on Russian hydrocarbons is risky, and that finding alternative supplies would limit Kremlin opportunities for coercion. 
 ''We can't force Russia to turn the spigot on,'' David A. Merkel, deputy assistant secretary of state for European affairs, said in an interview. He said the United States had been ''trying to get Europe to focus on this for a long time -- that dependency is something they should not be comfortable with, especially if it is dependency on Russia, which is willing to use its energy as a political tool.'' 
 American officials are also urging Ukraine to prove it is a reliable conduit for natural gas flowing from Russia, a subtle admission that the Kremlin may, indeed, be justified in its complaints about Ukraine's accounting for supplies passing through its territory.
 Even so, the Bush administration is not backing down from its support for post-Soviet democracies along Russia's border, including Ukraine and Georgia -- a point that will be made clear to the Kremlin when the United States and Georgia sign a new charter formalizing a strategic relationship that includes provisions for deepening ties in economics, politics and security. The signing of the partnership charter, similar to one the United States has with Ukraine, is scheduled for Friday. 
 In Moscow, a spokesman for President Dmitri A. Medvedev declined to comment in advance on the agreement, but Russian news reports have carried highly critical comments on American desires to deepen ties with Ukraine and Georgia.
 ''These charters are not against Russia,'' Mr. Merkel said. ''They are speaking to the vitality and importance of U.S.-Georgia relations and U.S.-Ukrainian relations.''
 Bush administration officials and American military officers do not hide their frustration with the government of Georgia for provocations that contributed to its August war with Russia.
 The response from Moscow has been caustic. Closer ties between former Soviet republics and the United States, including Washington's efforts to expedite NATO membership for both Ukraine and Georgia, have outraged Russian officials. No less, American plans to place missile defense bases in Poland and the Czech Republic have prompted outright threats of military retaliation from senior Russian officers.
 Russia's harder line against its neighbors is among the more traditional foreign policy challenges still awaiting Barack Obama when he is inaugurated Jan. 20. The others include war in the Middle East, an ascendant Iran in the oil-rich Persian Gulf, and deeply held religious and ethnic tensions between the nuclear rivals India and Pakistan. 
 The strategic partnership charter between the United States and Georgia, signed just five months after Georgia's war with Russia, was described Thursday by Grigol Vashadze, Georgia's foreign minister, as an ''absolutely historical document.''
 The charter will reaffirm the ''territorial integrity, sovereignty, independence and freedom of Georgia,'' he said, and it will be a significant step toward integrating Georgia with the political structures of Europe and North America.
 In an interview, Mr. Vashadze said the security portion of the charter ''provides that the United States will increasingly assist Georgia in modernizing its self-defense capabilities, and will move training exercises and all these necessary measures to another level.''
 The Kremlin's most bitter complaints have been prompted by Bush administration plans to place 10 antimissile interceptors in Poland and a radar for tracking and guidance in the Czech Republic. 
 While Washington says that the system is designed solely to protect Europe from a potential Iranian missile attack, and that it is no match for Russia's vast nuclear arsenal, the Kremlin has threatened to attack the missile sites or, at a minimum, to move its own missiles closer to NATO territory.
 President-elect Obama has not announced any policy for the two bases, and his stance on missile defense more broadly has been to express support for a system that proves its ability.
 But in a new development, Pentagon officials now acknowledge they have been examining alternatives should plans for the European bases be canceled either by a new government here or by the host nations. 
 The analysis has focused on the technical attributes of other missile defense technologies, to include sea-based systems and, possibly, mobile, land-based interceptors, said a Defense Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity in order to describe Pentagon planning. The Obama administration will have time to conduct its own review and to assess how best to answer the expected calls from Europe to heal relations with Russia, which will include missile defense.
 The Polish and Czech Parliaments have not yet voted to ratify agreements for the bases, and construction is not planned to begin until the end of this year or early 2010 -- contingent, of course, upon Congressional approval of money and orders from the new president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An employee controlled a gas valve in eastern Germany on Thursday. Natural gas from Russia to Europe has been cut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENS SCHLUETER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); POLITICS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); UKRAINE (95%); GEORGIA (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); INDIA (79%); POLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (78%); GULF STATES (65%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



281 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Benefit Rolls Rise to 26-Year High

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Unemployment benefit rolls rose to a 26-year high in the last week of December, data showed on Thursday.
 The Labor Department said the number of people still on jobless rolls after drawing an initial week of aid jumped 101,000, to 4.61 million, in the week ended Dec. 27. 
 That was the highest since November 1982 and higher than analysts' expectations of 4.5 million, underscoring the difficulty people face getting another job when they are laid off.
 ''You are still seeing a lot of people collecting unemployment claims, so the underlying conditions are very poor. The bad news in the continuing claims is relentless,'' said Pierre Ellis, senior global economist at Decision Economics in New York.
 While the overall size of the benefit rolls has been marching steadily higher, the number of workers submitting new claims for state unemployment aid dropped unexpectedly last week, a second consecutive decline.
 Initial claims fell 24,000, to 467,000, in the week ended Jan. 3, the department said, well below the 540,000 new claims economists expected. It was the lowest reading since the week ended Oct. 11, when it was at 463,000.
 Analysts said the decrease was probably attributable to people holding back applications because of the holidays.
 On Friday, the government is to issue its report on December nonfarm payrolls. That report is expected to show that the economy lost 550,000 jobs last month, with the unemployment rate rising to 7 percent, from 6.7 percent in November.
 At the same time, a Federal Reserve report showed that consumer borrowing fell by a record $7.94 billion in November, the biggest decline for any month, from a total of $2.58 trillion in October. The decline followed a fall of $2.78 billion in October from September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); LAYOFFS (79%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (79%); STATISTICS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



282 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Subway Panhandler? No, M.T.A. Trying to Go Green

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is planning a hefty fare increase, but it thinks that some environmentally conscious riders might want to voluntarily pay even more for the privilege of riding on a crowded train or bus.
 The authority said on Thursday that it was considering a ''green MetroCard'' program that would let riders make donations to help pay for making its operations more environmentally sustainable. The program would also apply to commuter rail tickets and E-ZPasses. 
 The idea was among dozens of proposals in a $1 million report by a commission appointed by the authority to recommend ways to lessen the adverse environmental impact of its operations. 
 Under the program, whose details are still being developed, riders buying MetroCards or commuter rail tickets at station vending machines could tack on an extra charge in the form of a tax-deductible contribution for green projects, said Ernest Tollerson, the authority's policy director.
 ''We're working on a model that says that you might add an increment to the price of a MetroCard, a Long Island Rail Road ticket, to a Metro-North ticket and also to the crossings for bridges and tunnels, on a voluntary basis,'' Mr. Tollerson said. 
 Asked about the timing of such a proposal -- when riders face a large fare increase -- Mr. Tollerson said the program might become more successful as the economy improves. 
 ''I think people may be willing to contribute something like the cost of maybe going to the movies one night to helping green the M.T.A.,'' he said. 
 The authority's executive director, Elliot G. Sander, said later, ''Why wouldn't you give New Yorkers the opportunity, particularly those who are upper income, who care about the environment, to fund some projects where otherwise we might not do them.'' 
 The authority has said that to help plug a $1.2 billion budget gap, it must raise fare and toll revenue by 23 percent, starting in June.
 Under an alternative proposal, the state would step in to bail out the authority, limiting the increase in fare and toll revenues to 8 percent. 
 A group of authority officials, including Mr. Sander, went to Washington to release the report at an unusual out-of-town news conference. Just one reporter, from an online environmental publication, showed up, while several reporters in New York listened in by telephone. 
 Officials made the announcement in Washington because, they said, the initiatives proposed in the report were of national significance and because the authority's sustainability goals meshed with the proposals of President-elect Barack Obama to create more ''green'' jobs. 
 An authority spokesman, Aaron Donovan, said he was not immediately able to give the cost of the trip. He said that Mr. Sander and another authority official also attended another meeting in Washington. 
 The commission has conducted its work with a budget of $1 million, most for consulting firms that helped develop its recommendations and write the report, which is still in draft form. The report stresses the environmental benefits that mass transit provides by getting people out of cars and onto buses and trains. 
 But it includes some ambitious long-term proposals to reap more benefits. One would have the authority team up with the city, the New York Power Authority and county governments to build offshore wind farms provide electricity for its operations. 
 It also proposed making all of its new construction projects comply with tough environmental standards.
 It did not give cost estimates for such innovations. 
 But the report also included recommendations that could have a more immediate impact. 
 The commission's consultants studied ways to make subway cars lighter so they require less power to run. Recommendations for lighter floors and batteries in new or refurbished subway cars will be put in place soon, officials said. The commission chairman, Jonathan F. P. Rose, said the panel recommended that within a year the authority conduct a thorough review and energy audit of every building, bus depot and train station it owns to cut down on water and electricity waste. He said the effort would save enough to pay for itself.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Sander said this week that because of the authority's financial problems, he would not take a pay raise this year. Mr. Sander, who earns $350,000 annually, drew criticism last year for negotiating a $10,000 raise even as he was asking riders to pay more through a fare increase. His decision was first reported by The Daily News. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); PANHANDLING (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



283 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Avalanche Deaths and Hazards Rattling Ski Country in the West

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA ERB

DATELINE: JACKSON, Wyo. 

 BODY:
Whistler Blackcomb resort in British Columbia has stationed guards at the top of some areas to prevent skiers and snowboarders from entering hazardous terrain. Grouse Mountain resort, in North Vancouver, has suggested that government action may be needed to deter skiers and snowboarders from using off-limit areas. And Jackson Hole in Wyoming has already burned through nearly half of this year's budget for avalanche hazard reduction work, one month into the season. 
 Resorts throughout the western United States and Canada are struggling with avalanche hazards as weather patterns have created uncommonly widespread conditions of instability, wreaking havoc on mountains crowded with skiers of all levels at the start of ski season. Last week, avalanches at Whistler Blackcomb killed a snowboarder and a skier on terrain outside the resort's boundaries. On Wednesday morning, a controlled slide ran past Jackson Hole's $10 million Bridger Restaurant -- already damaged by a recent avalanche -- while the mountain was closed to the public.
 ''It's a war zone,'' said Lanny Johnson, a wilderness medical advisor and former patroller at Lake Tahoe's Alpine Meadows ski resort. He added that this avalanche cycle had ''the best in the field scratching their heads.'' 
 Since Dec. 14, avalanches have caused 13 deaths in the United States and 23 total in North America -- one in a roof slide and the others in skiing, snowboarding, snowmobiling and ice-climbing incidents, according to Dale Atkins, vice president for the avalanche rescue commission at the International Commission for Alpine Rescue. 
 Perhaps most troubling to resorts and safety officials is that three people died in-bounds -- areas at resorts that are perceived as safe terrain. Avalanches in in-bounds areas have led to deaths of skiers at Squaw Valley in California, at Snowbird in Utah and at Jackson Hole. It is the most in-bound deaths in one season since three skiers were killed in a single avalanche at Alpine Meadows in 1976.
 ''One in-bound fatal avalanche in a season is unusual; three separate fatal incidents in one season is really rare,'' said Bob Comey, director of the Bridger-Teton National Forest Avalanche Center. ''It's been a really big problem. We're doing what we normally do. Our techniques work really well, but they're not ever 100 percent guaranteed.''
 Early snow in the fall coupled with rain left a weak, ice-covered base on many mountains. Then heavy storms throughout the West dumped several feet of snow, which has been perilously resting on the vulnerable base.
 ''It is sort of like dominos covered by a board,'' Mr. Atkins said. ''If dominos are widely spaced and a few fall over, nothing happens; however, if enough dominos are close to each other and one falls over knocking down others, enough may fall causing the board to collapse.''
 Avalanche forecasters anticipate that hazardous conditions could persist well into the season throughout the backcountry in the Rockies, the Pacific Northwest and the Tetons. The Teton County Sheriff's Department reminded the public last week -- for the first time in its 17-year history -- that search and rescue may be significantly delayed or unable to respond to backcountry incidents because of heightened avalanche hazards. 
 ''We're off to a scary start; this December saw the most recorded avalanche fatalities for any December since the mining days,'' Mr. Atkins said, adding that, historically, January, February and March were the worst months for avalanches.
 The conditions are so alarming that even many expert skiers who normally attack backcountry terrain with ease are staying within the controlled areas of resorts. Sales of transceivers, used to locate people buried in an avalanche, soared at Jackson Hole's ski shop after a recent in-bounds slide, according to J. D. Disney, a sales representative there. The beacons are typically carried by backcountry skiers, but Mr. Disney said the devices were purchased by many recreational skiers at the resort -- including a woman who bought five for her family.
 Grouse Mountain, which barred three skiers and one snowboarder indefinitely for using an off-limits, avalanche-prone area on its privately owned resort last week, said the provincial and federal governments may need to pass legislation in the interest of public safety.
 Locals and visitors at Jackson Hole have been advised to stay out of the backcountry while the resort tries to keep the upper mountain open and safe. The resort budgeted $81,500 this season for avalanche hazard reduction tools that allow patrollers to trigger slides in a safe method, and Tim Mason, the vice president for operations, said patrollers may have already spent nearly half the year's budget in an attempt to keep as much of the upper mountain open as possible over the holidays. 
 This all comes at a time when global economic issues are already putting a strain on ski resorts. 
 ''Resorts definitely rely on big weekends,'' Mr. Mason said. ''Winter is our time of year. We count on those weekends, especially.'' 
 Mr. Comey said that another storm cycle was expected to hit the Tetons soon and that the amount of snowfall would determine whether avalanche conditions were exacerbated in the backcountry. The added weight of a heavy snowfall could trigger more slides. If it stops snowing, the snowpack may have a chance to stabilize.
 ''What we patrollers need more than anything else is a break,'' he said.
 Chris McCollister, a 39-year-old ski patroller at Jackson Hole, can empathize. On Dec. 27, snow on an in-bounds slope shattered like a pane of glass under the weight of a local skier, David Nodine, and his companion, burying Mr. Nodine beneath roughly seven feet of snow. The patrol team had conducted avalanche hazard reduction work on the slope that morning, and it had already been skied. Squaw Valley and Snowbird had also conducted reduction work on their slopes before their in-bound fatalities occurred. 
 Two patrollers witnessed the slide and located Mr. Nodine's beacon within two minutes. They uncovered his head within another six. Patrollers quickly recovered him from a deep, concretelike tomb, but it was too late; he had suffocated. 
 Two days later, Mr. McCollister was on duty when he heard an emergency call over his radio: ''The building's been hit,'' and, ''there's workers buried.'' He immediately took the gondola to the resort's Bridger Restaurant, at 9,095 feet. 
 ''I heard someone say multiple workers were down and that one person was definitely not recoverable,'' Mr. McCollister said.
 A massive deep slab avalanche had rushed down the Headwall slope toward the resort's midmountain restaurant, partially pinning four patrollers on the outside patio, trapping a fifth and his search dog inside a nearby ski patrol room and knocking two more patrollers down the mountain's face.
 Seven of Mr. McCollister's colleagues were hit by the slide. Everyone survived.
 ''It's been my most stressful year so far,'' said Mr. McCollister, who has been a patroller for eight years. 
 ''I don't have trouble sleeping. I'm so exhausted. My only problem is waking up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A snowboarder on Whistler Mountain. A skier and a snowboarder died last week outside Whistler Blackcomb resort's boundaries.
A candlelight vigil was held last month in Sparwood, British Columbia, for avalanche victims.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN HAYWARD/CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A16) CHART: Recipes for an Avalanche: Unusual weather conditions in the fall and winter in the mountains of the western United States and Canada have made ski and recreational resorts particularly susceptible to avalanches. A look at some of the factors that have contributed to this season's avalanches. (Source: Dale Atkins, vice president for the avalanche rescue commission for the International Commission for Alpine Rescue)(A16)
 DRAWING BY AL GRANBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNOWBOARDING (94%); SKIING (94%); RESORTS (92%); AVALANCHES (91%); MOUNTAINS (91%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); WEATHER (89%); EXTREME SPORTS (73%); SNOWMOBILING (71%); BUDGETS (71%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (67%); ICE CLIMBING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (73%) WYOMING, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



284 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS HOUSING; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Inauguration Rentals Go Soft

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Has the air gone out of Washington's inauguration housing frenzy?
Around Thanksgiving, some residents hoped to rent their homes to out-of-towners for top dollar. But the anticipated demand did not materialize, said Andre Butters, who helped found a housing Web site for the inauguration. 
''We speculated there would be a huge demand of millions and millions of people coming and needing a place to stay,'' Mr. Butters said. ''We are getting a few places every day rented out, but not at the level we initially thought.''
He said his site listed 720 places, but only 100 visitors were registered and looking. ''Everyone got into speculating about the money,'' he said.
It is possible that the talk of huge crowds -- the latest estimate is 1.5 million to 3 million people -- discouraged many from coming. Or they might have been turned off by the high prices.
''I think the economy has something to do with it,'' Mr. Butters said. ''People just don't want to spend as much.''
He said ''a lucky few'' would be able to rent their houses but probably only for reasonable rates and if their home was within walking distance of the inaugural events.
''Nobody wants the houses in the suburbs,'' Mr. Butters said. People will be paying about $400 a night, he said.
About 600 hotel rooms are still available, out of 29,000 in the District of Columbia, said Rebecca Pawlowski, a spokeswoman for Destination D.C., the local tourist bureau.
Still, new advertisements for house rentals pop up. On Thursday, a new one on Craigslist sought $60,000 for a six-bedroom house in Bowie, Md., for inauguration week. It includes, though, limo service to and from the airport in an R-Class Mercedes-Benz.
KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (74%); SUBURBS (73%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



285 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Darkest Before the ... Dark

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Judgment day is at hand for American retailers.
On Thursday, many chains reported the worst holiday shopping season in decades, and the stores are entering the new year so weakened that some might not survive. A wave of corporate failures that has already taken out stores like Sharper Image and Linens 'n Things is expected to grow substantially worse in coming months, sending some of the well-known names of American retailing into bankruptcy.
Thursday's numbers were, in themselves, no surprise. The weak economy, rising unemployment, winter storms and a dearth of compelling fashions hurt all kinds of retailers in December. On Thursday, many reported double-digit sales declines at stores open at least a year, a measure known as same-store sales and a barometer of retail health.
Industry sales fell 2.2 percent for the holiday shopping season, the biggest decline since at least 1970, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers. December sales dropped 1.7 percent on top of even-weaker November sales, when chains posted a 2.7 percent decline, the council said. 
Those numbers would be worse except for some huge categories, like food and beverages, on which consumers were less likely to cut back.
While November and December were tough, people at least had a reason to shop in those months. Retailing analysts say the next couple of months may prove to be even more difficult.
''Even the best of breed are closing stores,'' said Bill Dreher, senior retailing analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. ''That inventory will need to be liquidated into a market where consumers have no desire to spend.''
The number of retailers filing for bankruptcy protection surged last year, but the chains that filed -- including Circuit City, KB Toys, Mervyns, Boscov's, Steve & Barry's and Sharper Image -- were already weak.
The next wave of filings is likely to include stores that are doing many things right, but that are reeling from a high debt load in addition to a slowdown in sales brought on by the recession.
''What we're now entering into is going to be the hardest quarter,'' said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for the NPD Group. ''During the holidays, consumers must buy something for someone. We've now entered into the postholiday period, where consumers buy based on desire rather than need. The numbers are going to get worse before they get better,'' he said.
January is typically a slow month for retailers, and the significance of a December sales decline is far greater than a drop-off in January because sales in November and December account for 25 to 40 percent of many retailers' annual sales, according to the National Retail Federation, an industry group.
Still, some stores cannot afford for consumers to go into hibernation this month. Many sold their Christmas merchandise at staggeringly low prices -- an act that helped them trim their inventories and increase their same-store sales, but probably eroded their profit margins.
Indeed, retailers like Saks, Nordstrom, Macy's, Target, Gap, J. Crew, Pacific Sunwear and Chico's said Thursday that their margins had been hurt by their aggressive holiday promotions.
Even Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer and a rare winner in this economy as consumers trade down, missed analysts' expectations and lowered its projection of future results, indicating more rocky months ahead.
In December, Wal-Mart had a 1.7 percent same-store sales increase, not including fuel, but it said Thursday that it expected little improvement this month, with January same-store sales likely to be flat or 2 percent higher.
Thomas M. Schoewe, the company's chief financial officer, estimated Wal-Mart's fourth-quarter earnings at 91 to 94 cents a share, down from the company's previous expectation of $1.03 to $1.07. (The retailer is taking an after-tax charge of about 6 cents a share for the settlement of 63 class-action wage and hour lawsuits.)
Given the economy, Wal-Mart and other retailers are not taking any after-Christmas break from trying to attract customers.
''We're already starting to see markdowns on spring-related goods coming even earlier this year, despite lower inventory stocks,'' said John D. Morris, a retailing analyst at Wachovia Securities who studies promotions at the nation's malls. ''That's a telling sign.''
To keep consumers coming in the usually slow months after the holidays, Wal-Mart said Wednesday that it was lowering the prices of items that might help people keep their health and fitness resolutions -- like a Gold's Gym elliptical machine for $297 (down from $327) and an eight-pack of Yoplait Light yogurt for $3.50 (down from $4.28).
Stores are also thinking about their orders for next Christmas, which must be placed early in the year. One thing is certain: they will buy less.
This past Christmas, retailers drastically cut prices to drive shoppers through their doors, said Michael P. Niemira, chief economist and director of research at the International Council of Shopping Centers. ''But even that strategy was not enough,'' he said, ''as the elevated worry about job insecurity and increased job layoff announcements continued to restrain consumers' willingness and ability to spend.''
Department stores of all types, as well as many specialty apparel retailers, struggled. Same-store sales in the specialty retail stores segment of Neiman Marcus, which includes Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman stores, tumbled 31.2 percent. Sales at Saks sank 19.8 percent. Both high-end chains had improved their same-store sales in November but did not manage to continue the trend in December.
At Nordstrom, sales were down 10.6 percent, though that was better than its 15.9 percent decline in November.
Sales at mall retailers also fell by double digits, including Abercrombie & Fitch (down 24 percent), American Eagle Outfitters (down 17 percent), Gap (down 14 percent), Wet Seal (down 12.5 percent), Chico's (down 12.4), Zumiez (down 12.3 percent), and Limited Brands and Pacific Sunwear of California (both down 10 percent).
December sales fell 8.1 percent at J. C. Penney, 7.3 percent at the Sears Holdings Corporation, 5.8 percent at Bon-Ton, 5 percent at Dillard's and 1.4 percent at Kohl's.
Macy's said Thursday that it would close 11 stores, though its chief executive, Terry J. Lundgren, said in a statement that the closings were ''part of our normal-course process to prune underperforming locations each year.'' The retailer's same-store sales fell 4 percent in December.
Sales at TJX Companies, Ross Stores and Children's Place Retail Stores were flat.
Still, some niche retailers rose above the gloom.
Sales increased by double digits at teenage apparel retailers Buckle (up 13.5 percent) and Aeropostale (up 12 percent). Hot Topic -- which struck gold by selling merchandise inspired by the hit teenage vampire film ''Twilight'' -- had a 4.3 percent sales increase.
A Wal-Mart rival, BJ's Wholesale Club, also fared well in December, with sales rising 5.9 percent, excluding fuel.
Other discounters, like Target and Costco Wholesale, were softer, with sales down 4.1 and 4 percent, respectively.
In what passes for good news these days, the erosion in retail sales seemed to slow a bit at the end of December. Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis for SpendingPulse, said this week that lower prices of gasoline, extreme discounts, drier weather, pent-up consumer demand for discretionary items, and a calendar shift helped the declines in sales stabilize.
But analysts do not expect that to last. Dean Hillier, a partner and a retail specialist with A. T. Kearney, a management consultancy, said consumers no longer have much appetite for whipping out their wallets.
''That blanket of gloom will get heavier in the next little while,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On Thursday, Saks in Manhattan slashed prices to attract shoppers, above and below. The retail chain had a slide of nearly 20 percent in same-store sales for December. The weak economy, unemployment and storms hurt all merchants.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B1)
Kitty Puller and her son Max shopped at a Target store in Miami last month. The discount chain reported a decline of 4.1 percent for the holiday shopping season and sales of $9.28 billion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B6) CHART: Retail Sales in December: GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
 SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended Jan. 3, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.(Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports.) Chart details bar graphs for various companies. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (79%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); STOCK INDEXES (68%)

COMPANY: LINENS 'N THINGS INC (58%); TSIC INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



286 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2276 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, Jan. 9, 2009

 BODY:
international
 FRUSTRATED BY THEIR GOVERNMENT,
 Mexicans Voice Concerns
 Maybe people were just looking for somewhere to complain, but 20,000 submitted their proposals to the Mexican government's competition to identify the most useless government red tape in the country. The winner: a mother who said she had to spend as many as 15 days every month to obtain medicine for her son, who suffers from an immune deficiency that could kill him. PAGE A5
 Gay Men Jailed in Senegal A5
 2 SENIOR AL QAEDA LEADERS KILLED 
 An American missile strike on New Year's Day in Pakistan's tribal areas killed two senior Al Qaeda leaders, including one suspected of carrying out last September's deadly suicide bombing at a Marriott hotel in Pakistan's capital, an American counterterrorism official said. PAGE A7
 ROCKETS RENEW FEARS IN ISRAEL
 Rockets launched from Lebanon into northern Israel raised fears of a renewed war between Israel and the militant Shiite group Hezbollah, but those worries quickly subsided when it appeared that the attack had come from one of several small Palestinian militant groups in the area. PAGE A8
 CHINA HALTS PARENTS' INQUIRIES
 The local police stopped parents who were trying to travel secretly to Beijing this week from Southwest China to ask the central government for a full investigation into school collapses that killed their children during the May earthquake, several of the parents said. PAGE A8
 RETHINKING RELIANCE ON RUSSIA
 As Russia pinches natural gas supplies bound for Europe, Europeans may listen more intently to a case Washington has made for years: that relying on Russian hydrocarbons is risky, and that finding alternative supplies would limit Kremlin opportunities for coercion. PAGE A9
 U.S. GENERAL TALKS ON AFGHANISTAN
 The top American commander responsible for Afghanistan, Gen. David H. Petraeus, said that the war-ravaged country would require a ''sustained, substantial'' commitment from the United States and other nations to stop a resurgence of the Taliban and Al Qaeda. Page A7
 National
 FLU RESISTS PRIMARY ANTIVIRAL DRUG, 
 Leaving the Experts Baffled
 Scientists and health officials alike are at a loss as to why virtually all strains of the flu are immune to the leading antiviral drug, Tamiflu. The drug's lack of effectiveness is not yet a public health concern because of a below-average flu season. Page A10 
 OAKLAND LEADERS BEG FOR CALM
 About 120 people were arrested during violent riots in Oakland Wednesday night after the shooting death of a black man by a transit police officer last week -- the city is still quaking with the aftereffects and anger. City officials pleaded with an angry polulous for patience and calm. Page A10 
 REPORT ON COLD WAR RESTRICTIONS
 The National Academy of Sciences said in a report that many cold-war-era regulations should be scrapped. Some of these regulations control high-tech exports or the immigration of foreign scientists. The panel says these regulations do little for security now and are hampering growth. Page A12 
 JOURNAL CHANGES ITS PROCEDURES
 The New England Journal of Medicine has changed its procedures in response to criticism by a national accreditation group. The group said that a lung cancer study failed to report an author's financial conflicts. Part of that author's study had been underwritten by the parent company of the Liggett Group, a cigarette maker. The journal said it was not aware of the link. Page A13 
 U.S. NUCLEAR PROGRAM FAULTED
 A Pentagon task force found that many senior American military officials do not fully understand the purpose of deterrence in avoiding nuclear war. They said the Pentagon had allowed its nuclear mission to fragment, with a reduced staff lacking the experience to grasp the program. Page A12 
 CORPORATIONS SEEK TO BLOCK UNIONS
 Corporations are quietly supporting lobbying groups that are working to block organized labor's attempts to make forming unions easier. Corporations are looking to halt legislation that would give unions the right to win recognition at a workplace once the majority of employees sign cards saying they want one. Page A12 
 Ruling Against Illegal Immigrants A16
 New York
 To the Victors Go the Spoils
 To the Defeated? Well...
 That's perhaps a bit dramatic, but neverthe less Republicans in Albany are having to face some changes in the future. As the Democrats take over, hiring new staff and occupying the larger offices that Republicans have had to give up, and taking control of the $95 million budget -- the Democrats have promised to be equitable. But it's uknown how much of that budget they will allocate for the Republicans. Page A20
 WAGES UP 63 PERCENT SINCE 2000
 The average New York City employee has Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to thank for a 63 percent increase in yearly earnings, according to a new report. The increase has been driven by contractual raises that outpaced the inflation rate, and by the rising cost of health insurance and pension benefits. While this is good for the employees, it has put fiscal watchdogs on alert. With a rising deficit, calls for the administration to control employee costs are rising. Page A20 Sports
 ZONE BLITZ ONLY ONE ACHIEVEMENT
 For Steelers' Defense Mastermind
 Dick LeBeau, defensive coordinator for the Pittsburgh Steelers, has made a career of impenetrability. Either his own facade or that of his team. The inventor of the zone blitz enjoys a guru-like status. One secret to his success possibly is that his even-keel nature isn't an act. His hands do not shake, either in the joy of victory or the agony of defeat. Page B10
 NO PLAYOFFS FOR COLLEGE FOOTBALL
 Now that we can put the semester-long furor of college football behind us, Harvey Araton writes, we can turn to an actual elimination tournament -- the N.F.L. No point in trying to drive home the need for a playoffs, there isn't one. Any sport that's creating this much of an uproar without a hearing involving performance enhancing drugs or some sort of criminal charge must be on the right track. Page B10 Obituaries
 REV. R. J. NEUHAUS, 72
 In a polarizing shift, he changed from a liberal Lutheran leader of civil rights and the antiwar struggles of the 1960s, to become a Roman Catholic figurehead of the neoconservative movement. Page B9 
 GASTON LENoTRE, 88
 He was founder of the restaurant, catering, retail and cooking school empire Lenotre, which embodies French savoir-vivre and savoir-faire, especially in the art of pastry. Page B9 
 Business
 PROSECUTORS WANT MADOFF'S BAIL
 Revoked After Discovery of Checks
 In a press to revoke Bernard L. Madoff's bail, prosecutors produced as evidence $173 million in unsent checks. The checks were made out to various family members and friends and were dated the day of Mr. Madoff's arrest in a purported $50 billion Ponzi scheme. Prosecutors said the checks were proof that Mr. Madoff was trying to hide his assets from his investors. Page B5 
 ONE MAN WHO WON'T SUE MADOFF
 Many of the people duped in the Bernard L. Madoff scandal have gone about reparations in the usual process -- with a lawsuit. But Marc Rich is not among those investors now deep in the legal process. His own legal complications will prevent it. Page B5 
 Assigning Value to Amazon Kindle B2
 Buying Drug R. & D. B2
 INDIAN COMPANY FIGHTS TO SURVIVE
 Satyam, an Indian outsourcing company, is rocking in the wake of what may be the biggest financial scandal in India's history. Analysts doubt the firm can survive, while its investors look for some way to recoup their losses. Most of them are taking aim at the firm's auditor, who might pay the price. Page B3 
 Business on the Web 
 German Bank's Second Boost
 In a two-fold move, the German government took a quarter stake in Commerzbank, the second-largest bank in Germany behind Deutsche Bank. It is the bank's second helping of government aid. In acquiring the stake, the government increased efforts to stabilize the financial system and enabled Commerzbank to complete the acquisition of Dresdner Bank, which it had promised to buy in August. 
 nytimes.com/business
 TO COMPETE WITH THE IPHONE
 The Treo from Palm has been showing its age against a backdrop of more advanced devices, particularly the iPhone. But Palm claims its new device, the Pre, will break new ground in smartphones. Page B4 
 High & Low Finance 
 Dividends Don't Lie? If Only.
 It's clear now, Floyd Norris writes, that dividends are not the stalwart indication of solid corporate performance, but rather a sign of lax lending. Page B1
 RETAILERS CONFIRM DISMAL SEASON
 December confirms it. This holiday season was one of the worst in history for retailers. And with the pressure of Christmas in the past, retailers are expected to have even further difficulty drumming up business. Page B1 
 Weekend
 LET THEM WATCH AWARDS SHOWS:
 Showbiz's Cure for Dark Times
 As Hollywood enters its awards season, movie stars and their handlers have to decide if strutting down the red carpets at a time of economic crisis falls into the category of the show must go on, or if the champagne toasts come off as the ultimate let-them-eat-cake gesture. PAGE C1 
 Film Review 
 Here Come the Catfighting Brides
 In the romantic comedy ''Bride Wars'' Kate Hudson and Anne Hathaway play buddies who declare war after their weddings are scheduled for the same day in June. But before these best friends forever turn into best enemies forever and start advancing to the front lines, they shop. Die, Bridezilla, die, writes Manohla Dargis PAGE C1 
 BAUER UP TO ANOTHER '24' HOURS
 At the start of the two-hour premiere of '24' on Fox, pantywaist politicians are persecuting Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland) for some rather extreme methods of interrogation. Predictably, the Senate sanctimony is interrupted by an urgent threat to national security and for the seventh time only one agent is up to the task. PAGE C1 
 A STORY OF MARRIAGE UNDER STRESS
 ''Not Easily Broken,'' a cinematic melodrama of marital difficulty directed by Bill Duke and based on a novel by T. D. Jakes, pastor of the Potter's House megachurch in Dallas, visualizes the story of a couple whose marriage is sorely, somewhat predictably and fairly realistically tested by an assortment of stresses. PAGE C8 
 Books of the Times
 Perfect Strangers in the Suburbs
 Jennifer Baszile's new memoir, ''The Black Girl Next Door,'' is about her coming of age in a nearly all-white suburb where she and her family thought they had outrun race but instead they were nicknamed, without a hint of irony, ''the real live Huxtables from 'The Cosby Show.''' PAGE C29 
 Seeing Dutch Art With New Eyes C29 
 Jasper Johns Opens Up at MoMa C32 
 Escapes
 HOME OWNERS ON GOLF COURSES
 Find Themselves in the Rough
 Many of the people who bought homes in golf developments across the country are finding themselves in the rough with closed clubhouses and courses, lost membership fees and a direct hit to their home values as developers file for bankruptcy. PAGE D1 
 WINTERS IN SANTA FE ON THE CHEAP
 Santa Fe has an international art scene, year-round celebrities and hotel rooms that go for up to $450 a night, but with some creative choices and a willingness to stray from the plaza of postcard fame, it can be surprisingly easy on a budget. PAGE D1 The Maine Mountain Experience D1 Still Hip in Haight-Ashbury D8 
 Editorial
 CUDDLY WELCOME FOR MR. DASCHLE
 Tom Daschle's confirmation hearing to be the next secretary of health and human services was mostly a love-fest. Unfortunately, the hearing did not tell us much at all about how the incoming Obama administration intends to pay for its emerging health care programs. Page A26
 EUROPE'S BIG CHILL
 It's debatable as to who is responsible for this week's sharp cut in Russian gas flowing through Ukraine. But it will keep happening unless Europe and the United States press Ukraine and Russia to finally settle their pricing dispute. The West also has to come up with a strategy for moderating or containing Vladimir Putin's bullying ways. Page A26
 CENSUS CRUNCH TIME
 With only a year to go before the nationwide census, President-elect Barack Obama needs to nominate a strong new director who can move swiftly to counteract years of political meddling and neglect. Page A26
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 President-elect Barack Obama says we need bold action to deal with the economic crisis, and he's right. But his economic plan falls well short of what's needed. Page A27
 DAVID BROOKS
 Today there is wide support for fiscal stimulus. It's just that there is no historical experience to tell us how to do it, and there is no agreement on how to make it work. The economists' prescriptions are all over the map. Obama is compelled to jump into unmapped territory, and mysteries abound. Page A27
 DON'T TOUCH THAT DIAL
 With only 40 days to go before the planned transition to digital television nationwide, it's clear that millions of American households are unprepared to receive the digital signals. In an Op-Ed essay, William Kennard and Michael Powell, former chairmen of the Federal Communications Commission, say the government should delay the transition for a few months. Page A27
 Havana Journal
 Keeping the Harleys Alive in Cuba
 Sergio Morales, not pictured, is the last mechanic making his living by fixing the few Harley Davidson motorcycles that remain in Cuba. Since the supply of Harleys and their parts dried up after the 1959 revolution, along with the United States trade embargo, there are less than 100 left. But Mr. Morales does his best to preserve a nugget of Americana in the alleys of Havana. PAGE A6

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); COLD WAR (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); POLICE FORCES (88%); INFLUENZA (87%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); ANTIVIRALS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); TALIBAN (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); ARRESTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); HEZBOLLAH (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); CHILDREN (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); RIOTS (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); EXPORT CONTROLS (60%); CITIES (60%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); HEZBOLLAH (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (75%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (55%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LEBANON (79%); SENEGAL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



287 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Let Them Eat Awards Shows

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 AS Hollywood heads into the heart of its awards season, America's annual orgy of pop-culture glamour, movie stars and their handlers have a decision to make: to preen or not to preen.
 Do strutting red carpets and collecting gold statuettes at a time of economic crisis fall into the category of the show must go on? Or will the designer gowns and Champagne toasts come off as the ultimate let-them-eat-cake gestures?
 They have decided, for the most part, that a strong dose of Hollywood razzle-dazzle is just the balm the country needs in these dark times. While some stars may sport fewer eye-popping baubles, those putting on the awards spectaculars, beginning with the Golden Globes on Sunday and culminating with the Oscars next month, intend to crank up the opulence. 
 The Globes, in particular, are pouring on the glitter, whether it fits the cultural mood or not, said Barry Adelman, executive vice president for television for Dick Clark Productions, which is producing the telecast for NBC. The producers are driven in part by last year's dreadful experience, in which the gala was replaced by a drab news conference because of a writer's strike. NBC lost viewers and millions of dollars. 
 ''We're back, we're bigger, we're better than ever -- that's the message,'' Mr. Adelman said.
 The production will feature more elaborate sets (cascading stairs leading up to the podium). The statuette also received an overhaul (more detailing of the continents of the globe). And the dinner will be more extravagant, with 250 waiters serving Moet et Chandon White Star Champagne by the flute load and a menu that includes ''aromatic Asian spice marinated sea bass with sherry yuzu pepper sauce.'' Among the presenters will be Martin Scorsese, Cameron Diaz, Chris Rock and Salma Hayek. The Oscars too are hoping to raise the glamour and star quotient in hopes of recapturing viewers who have drifted away in recent years, although plans are still in the early stages.
 This is treacherous ground.
 ''You don't want to come across like Marie Antoinette, and there's definitely that risk right now if a celebrity shows up dripping in diamonds to be honored for a $15 million role,'' said Jessica Morgan, a founder of a popular fashion blog and an author of ''The Fug Awards,'' a book that skewers star attire.
 ''At the same time the rest of us could use a little pick-me-up,'' she continued, ''so put on a feathered headdress already and entertain us.''
 Sunday's Golden Globe broadcast will begin a month's worth of ceremonies that include the Screen Actors Guild Awards and more than a dozen others culminating in the 81st annual Academy Awards on Feb. 22. Preparations for these ceremonies show few signs of restraint, even as other high-profile events are trying to pull back: notably, the inauguration of President-elect Barack Obama, whose planners have promised to acknowledge the severity of the economic crisis amid the celebrations.
 ''Having a somber celebrity show doesn't really help anyone,'' said Amanda Lundberg, a partner at the public relations firm 42West, which is coordinating multiple Oscar campaigns. ''Entertainers should do their jobs and do them well.''
 Stylists have gotten the message. Leslie Fremar, who has dressed the Oscar-winning actresses Charlize Theron and Jennifer Connelly, said she did not foresee red carpets turning somber because of the recession.
 ''Nobody has asked me to be overly sensitive,'' Ms. Fremar said of her current clients, whom she declined to name. ''You might see some people keeping the jewelry and hair simple.''
 The coming self-congratulation-a-thon could certainly go off without a hitch, even in all its opulent glory, but the odds are not in Hollywood's favor. The movie business has a long if not proud history of tone-deaf behavior.
 There was Miramax's decision shortly after the Columbine school shootings to release a movie about taking a teacher hostage (''Teaching Mrs. Tingle''). Walking a red carpet, Sharon Stone ignited an international brouhaha last year when she told reporters that the earthquake in China, which left 88,000 dead or missing, was perhaps karmic payback for the country's handling of Tibet.
 Even the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has made the occasional flub. Two years ago at its ceremony the academy boasted about how environmentally friendly its awards had become, as a fleet of several hundred stretch limos idled outside the theater.
 Many are using the sour state of the economy as an argument in favor of excess. Cutting back on the pomp, they say, would hurt the little people: the hundreds of florists, caterers, make-up artists and tanning salons that feed off the awards circuit, not to mention the millions at home, struggling to make ends meet, for whom a judicious dose of celebrity may be just the necessary palliative.
 So the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which bestows the Golden Globes, is determined to keep the honors on track, tipsy acceptance speeches and all. The swag is back too, with six ''gifting suites'' for presenters and nominees operating in conjunction with the awards.
 ''We are focused on bringing viewers what they want, which is a moment of respite,'' said Orly Adelson, president of Dick Clark Productions. ''Especially in times like these, people need entertainment.'' (One area in which handlers are not so laissez faire: Winners are being encouraged not to fuss over Mr. Obama in their speeches out of fear that everyone who clambers onstage will have a comment.)
 As for the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, its president, Jorge Camara, said: ''We really haven't worried too much about it. We feel we should go full-steam ahead and not deny the actors and others the chance for full recognition.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The overhauled Golden Globe statuette will have more detailing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); WRITERS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (57%)

COMPANY: DICK CLARK PRODUCTIONS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%)

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



288 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: British Central Bank Cuts Rate to Record Low

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
The Bank of England cut its benchmark interest rate on Thursday by half of a percentage point, seeking to bolster the deteriorating economy amid calls for more government action.
 Britain's central bank reduced the rate to 1.5 percent, the lowest level since the creation of the central bank in 1694, and economists expect Britain to follow the United States in reducing the rate to close to zero by the second quarter of this year. It is the Bank of England's fourth rate cut since October; the European Central Bank is also expected to cut its rate of 2.5 percent next week. 
''It's a reasonable reduction but it's not the end of the rate cut cycle yet,'' said Ross Walker, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland in London. ''The economy will get worse before it gets better. Shelved or postponed investment spending and unemployment will be the defining characteristics for this year.''
 Some economists said a slower pace of rate cuts was intended to give the government time to develop a new policy framework for the central bank, which was given independence from political control in 1997.
 Alistair Darling, chancellor of the Exchequer, tried to calm speculation on Thursday that the government would seek to print money to support the financial system. But in an interview with The Financial Times earlier this week, he said that any action beyond setting rates close to zero ''could only be done with the Treasury and the Bank of England working hand in hand because the two responsibilities just become so close you have to operate together.''
 Britain's economy has entered its first recession in 17 years. Concerns about rising unemployment and the bursting of the property bubble that fueled economic growth over the last decade keep consumers from spending and in turn force companies to reduce costs to make up for declining sales. 
 This week alone, Marks & Spencer, Britain's largest clothing retailer, announced 1,230 job cuts and plans to close 27 stores; the subprime loan provider Cattles announced the elimination of 1,000 positions and Adams Childrenswear closed 111 stores and cut 850 jobs after being placed into administration, the equivalent of Chapter 11 reorganization. Other trademark companies, like a part of the crystal and ceramics maker Waterford Wedgwood and the household retailer Woolworths, have sought receivership.
 Consumer confidence fell to the lowest since at least 2004 in December and the median price of a home fell 16 percent in December, to $:153,048, ($229,379), from a year ago, according to the Nationwide Building Society. At the same time, unemployment rose at the fastest pace since 1991 in November, to 1.07 million.
 ''The outlook for business and residential investment has deteriorated and the availability of credit to both households and businesses has tightened further, pointing to the need for further measures to increase the flow of lending to the nonfinancial sector,'' the Bank of England said in a statement on Thursday.
 British stocks fell while the pound rose as much as 1.3 percent against the euro and 1.2 percent against the dollar, reversing some of its steep recent losses. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A headline at a newspaper kiosk in London tells the story of the lowest rate since the Bank of England was founded in 1694. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT DUNHAM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RETAILERS (85%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); CLOSINGS (72%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (68%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (66%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (66%); INTERVIEWS (65%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (61%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); NATIONWIDE BUILDING SOCIETY (81%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (71%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (67%); MARKS & SPENCER GROUP PLC (52%); WWRD HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); MKS (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3262 VITREOUS CHINA TABLE & KITCHEN ARTICLES (51%)

PERSON: ALISTAIR DARLING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



289 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors Point to Signed Checks in Opposing Bail for Madoff

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
Pressing the case that Bernard L. Madoff should have his $10 million bail revoked, federal prosecutors said in court documents on Thursday that investigators found 100 signed checks worth $173 million in Mr. Madoff's desk on the day of his arrest. 
 The checks, which were to be distributed to family members, employees and friends, are another indication that Mr. Madoff, the financier accused of running a $50 billion Ponzi scheme, has tried to hide assets from his investors, prosecutors wrote in a brief to Magistrate Judge Ronald L. Ellis of United States District Court in Manhattan. 
 On Monday, prosecutors asked Judge Ellis to revoke Mr. Madoff's bail, contending that Mr. Madoff and his wife, Ruth, had violated his bail conditions by mailing more than $1 million in valuables to family members in late December. By mailing the valuables, Mr. Madoff showed that he may be a flight risk, prosecutors said.
 ''When the defendant's office desk was searched, investigators found approximately 100 signed checks totaling more than approximately $173 million, ready to be sent out,'' two assistant United States attorneys, Marc O. Litt and Lisa A. Baroni, wrote in a letter to the judge. ''The only thing that prevented the defendant from executing the plan to dissipate those assets was his arrest by the F.B.I. on Dec. 11.''
 The prosecutors also criticized Mr. Madoff for referring to the jewelry and watches that he mailed to his sons in late December as personal items. ''What may be merely sentimental baubles to the defendant are, in the posture of this case, valuable assets that may comprise a meaningful part of the assets available to be forfeited,'' they wrote.
 They also called Mr. Madoff's explanation that he had mailed the jewelry and watches in an effort to reach out to friends and family ''preposterous,'' adding, ''That's what telephones, e-mails and personal letters are for.''
 Lawyers for Mr. Madoff have said he should not have his bond revoked but should instead remain under 24-hour house arrest at his luxury Manhattan apartment. Mr. Madoff has surrendered his passport, is wearing an electronic ankle bracelet and is under guard, so he does not represent a flight risk and should not be jailed, they said.
 Judge Ellis may rule on the government's request as early as Friday.
 Meanwhile, in London, Britain's Serious Fraud Office opened an investigation on Thursday into Mr. Madoff's business operations to unearth possible criminal offenses.
 The British agency called on investors, clients, former employees and other stakeholders to step forward and help with the investigation, which intends to ''discover the truth behind the collapse of these huge financial structures,'' its director, Richard Alderman, said in a statement. The agency said it had set up a special hot line and calls had already started to come in Thursday afternoon.
 The investigation was prompted by an interim report about the British businesses by Grant Thornton, which is acting as the provisional liquidator of Mr. Madoff's operations in London, and followed talks with government authorities. The agency will work closely with the F.B.I. and other organizations in the United States.
 The London businesses of Mr. Madoff were managed through Madoff Securities International, based in the wealthy Mayfair neighborhood that is home to many London hedge funds. The business is incorporated in Britain and documents filed with a British registry show that the unit had about $170 million in assets when Mr. Madoff's firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities L.L.C., collapsed last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAIL (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); JEWELRY (86%); FINE JEWELRY (86%); JUDGES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC MONITOR SENTENCING (78%); PONZI SCHEMES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009



290 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: Nationwide Inquiry on Bids for Municipal Bonds

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The federal investigation that prompted Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico to withdraw his nomination as commerce secretary offers a rare glimpse into a long-simmering investigation of possible bid-rigging, tax evasion and other wrongdoing throughout the municipal bond business.
 Three federal agencies and a loose consortium of state attorneys general have for several years been gathering evidence of what appears to be collusion among the banks and other companies that have helped state and local governments take approximately $400 billion worth of municipal notes and bonds to market each year. 
 E-mail messages, taped phone conversations and other court documents suggest that companies did not engage in open competition for this lucrative business, but secretly divided it among themselves, imposing layers of excess cost on local governments, violating the federal rules for tax-exempt bonds and making questionable payments and campaign contributions to local officials who could steer them business. In some cases, they created exotic financial structures that blew up. 
 People with knowledge of the evidence say investigators are not just looking at a few bad apples, but also at the way an entire market has operated for years. 
 ''It's rare to sell a Senate seat, but it's not rare to sell a bond deal,'' said Charles Anderson, who retired as manager of tax-exempt bond field operations for the Internal Revenue Service in 2007. ''Pay-to-play in the municipal bond market is epidemic.''
 Michael D. Hausfeld, an antitrust lawyer in Washington, who is representing some of the cities, counties and states entangled in the federal dragnet, called it ''one of the longest-running, most economically pervasive antitrust conspiracies ever to be uncovered in the U.S.'' Many of these municipalities say they did nothing wrong and were duped by financial firms, which they are suing. 
 The possibility of a vast web of collusion would be sobering in any case, but the issue is of particular concern now, as Congress and the incoming Obama administration prepare a big fiscal stimulus package that may spawn infrastructure projects carried out and financed at the state and local level. States and cities issue bonds to raise money to pay for things like schools and road construction, and are supposed to follow strict rules on how the proceeds are handled for investors to receive a tax exemption on the interest. 
 Mr. Anderson estimated that as much as $4 billion a year was vanishing into the system, based on the volume of problems he saw before retirement. 
 Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, has said oversight of the municipal bond markets is inadequate, and has urged Congress to take steps to protect both investors and taxpayers. Congress has not taken up the initiative. 
 The S.E.C. and the Justice Department declined to discuss the details or status of their investigations, including in New Mexico, where work on municipal bonds is part of a federal grand jury investigation. Officials at the I.R.S. said they were giving the matter high priority and had challenged the tax-exempt status of municipal bonds in a number of places but declined to describe individual cases. 
 Christopher Taylor, who retired in 2007 as executive director of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, said the evidence amassed so far included tape-recorded phone calls, in which the independent specialists who are supposed to help local governments pick their bankers could be heard telling bankers: ''We want you to bid on this deal, but you're not going to get it -- you're going to get the next one. We want you to submit a sloppy bid.'' 
 Unsuspecting governments then accepted the recommended bids, and paid too much, he said. Mr. Taylor also cited evidence of banks being paid in cities where they did no work at all, apparently to reward them for throwing the business to their rivals. 
 The business is lightly regulated, with rules governing the conduct of companies set by the municipal securities board. Municipal bond underwriters are prohibited from making campaign contributions to ''buy'' the business of bringing bonds to market. But no such rules govern the conduct of a type of professional who appeared in the industry about a decade ago -- specialists who work with financial derivatives, like swaps and options. 
 In the last few years, the use of such derivatives in combination with municipal bonds has grown rapidly, market participants say. And so, it appears, has the interest of federal agents. 
 The federal inquiry appears to have started at the I.R.S., which was concerned that the rules for tax-exempt bonds were being trampled. 
 ''We saw this coming and went to the Department of Justice and said, 'Hey look! It looks as if there's been price-fixing and bid-rigging on a major scale here,' '' said Mr. Anderson, the retired I.R.S. manager. 
 The efforts have broadened into what investigators and lawyers described as a coordinated effort among the federal agencies broken down by jurisdiction. 
 The S.E.C. polices fraud in the municipal bond markets and is looking into whether municipal bonds are routinely certified for tax-exempt treatment, by people who perhaps know or should know they do not qualify. 
 The Justice Department's criminal antitrust division has authority over bid-rigging, and that part of the investigation is being led by federal prosecutors in Manhattan. At the same time, various regional U.S. attorneys' offices around the country are looking at whether campaign contributions and other gifts to state and local politicians were used improperly to ''buy'' bond-related business. 
 More than 30 financial services companies have been subpoenaed, including JPMorgan Chase, Merrill Lynch and the American International Group, which have recently received government assistance and in the case of A.I.G., an outright federal bailout. Several have disclosed in corporate filings that their employees have been called to testify before grand juries or have received ''Wells notices'' from the S.E.C. warning that an enforcement action is looming. 
 The disclosures follow raids by the F.B.I., in 2006, of the offices of three specialized firms that bring together local officials and the banks and other companies that seek business working on municipal bond sales. 
 One of the three, CDR Financial Products, of Beverly Hills, Calif., is at the heart of the federal investigation in New Mexico. Investigators there are looking at how CDR Financial came to be selected as the ''swap adviser'' for a $1.5 billion program -- called Governor Richardson's Investment Program, or GRIP -- to raise money for road and rail construction in New Mexico. 
 CDR Financial and its founder, David Rubin, gave $100,000 to two of Governor Richardson's political action committees in 2003 and 2004, and the company earned $1.5 million for advising GRIP in 2004. A Colorado political consultant, Michael Stratton, lobbied on behalf of CDR Financial, and was paid $269,000 by JPMorgan Chase during the same period, according to regulatory filings. JPMorgan was the lead underwriter on about $1.1 billion of bond sales for GRIP. 
 Mr. Stratton did not respond to messages requesting comment, and a JPMorgan spokesman said the bank would have no comment. 
 Allan Ripp, a spokesman for CDR Financial, said that Mr. Rubin had made the contributions because he supported Governor Richardson's efforts to register people likely to vote Democratic in the presidential election. He said CDR Financial had competed fairly for the bond business and won its assignment on the merits. 
 Governor Richardson has said that he and his aides acted correctly at all times, and that he withdrew his nomination as commerce secretary only out of concern that the investigation might cause a long and distracting confirmation battle. 
 CDR Financial and the other two firms raided by the F.B.I. -- Investment Management Advisory Group, known as Image, of Pottstown., Pa., and Sound Capital Management of Eden Prairie, Minn. -- had attracted unfavorable attention even before the F.B.I. raids, in some cases because of campaign contributions. 
 In Philadelphia, Image and CDR Financial were described as ''Company No. 1'' and ''Company No. 2'' in the indictments of the former city treasurer, Corey Kemp, and other officials in 2004. CDR Financial had made political contributions and earned $415,000 for helping Philadelphia link a type of derivative called a ''swaption'' to its bonds. Image squired the city treasurer around by limo, and was in the running to participate in a school bond sale, but the deal fell apart when a local newspaper, The Daily News, questioned Image's involvement. 
 Mr. Kemp is serving a 10-year prison sentence for accepting illegal payments in exchange for steering city bond business and other contracts to selected companies. Neither CDR Financial nor Image was formally accused of wrongdoing. 
 The use of derivatives in connection with municipal bonds has grown rapidly in the last five years. The packages are presented as money-savers to the municipalities, which may want to protect themselves against interest rate changes. But over the last year, as turmoil spread through the credit markets, some of the derivatives have blown up, leaving local governments stuck with unexpected costs. 
 That happened in Alabama, where Jefferson County linked an extraordinary number of derivatives, called interest-rate swaps, to its bonds, in some cases with the help of CDR Financial. Despite publicized concerns about whether improper payments to certain officials were behind the swaps, the county insisted the swaps were saving money. Last year, the derivatives failed, leaving the county with vast bills. Jefferson County is now at risk of declaring what would be the biggest governmental bankruptcy in United States history. 
 Even in places where the bonds and derivatives are performing as expected, irate government officials are finding they may have overpaid for various services and have inadvertently broken federal tax rules. Again and again, proceeds from tax-exempt bonds appear to have improperly generated investment income for banks and insurers. 
 Among the governments that have sued these financial firms are the cities of Chicago and Baltimore; Oakland and Fresno, Calif.; the state of Mississippi; and a number of counties, school districts and at least one water and sewer district. The lawsuits were consolidated in November, in Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York. Chicago has since abandoned that litigation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico has said that he and his aides have acted properly.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG FRITZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CARTELS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LAWYERS (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LITIGATION (72%); DEBT NOTES (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHRISTOPHER COX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



291 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Senate Allies Fault Obama On Stimulus

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama's economic recovery plan ran into crossfire from his own party in Congress on Thursday, suggesting that quick passage of spending programs and tax cuts could require more time and negotiation than Democrats once hoped.
 Senate Democrats complained that major components of his plan were not bold enough and urged more focus on creating jobs and rebuilding the nation's energy infrastructure rather than cutting taxes. 
 Just hours earlier, Mr. Obama called for speedy passage of the stimulus measure, warning that the recession ''could linger for years'' if Congress did not pass his plan within weeks.
 Further complicating the picture, Democratic senators said Thursday that they would try to attach legislation to the package that would allow bankruptcy courts to modify home loans, a move Republicans have opposed. 
 Parallel to its work on the stimulus plan, the Obama team has also been considering how to use the second $350 billion of the bailout program approved by Congress. A transition team official said Thursday night that the new approach would give government officials broader range to provide relief on consumer loans for homes, automobiles and education, while also doing more to address foreclosures and the problems of municipalities and small businesses.
 For his recovery plan, meanwhile, Mr. Obama has been assembling a package worth as much as $775 billion over two years to revive the sagging economy, using the plan to define his presidency even before it begins and to foreshadow his broader approach to governing.
 While relying on traditionally liberal notions of using government spending to spur growth, he has also tried to adapt it for a new era with investment in clean energy and technology. And he is trying to balance all of that with tax breaks that appeal to Republicans.
 But the broad support he has enjoyed so far for the basic concept is now being tested as the specifics become clearer. While conservatives criticize the high spending, and moderate Democrats express concern about the swelling deficit, liberals are pushing for even more money devoted to social programs, alternative-energy development and road, bridge and school construction.
 David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, said the president-elect's team was not concerned by the emerging pockets of criticism of his plan.
 ''Obviously, it's a big answer to a big problem and there are a lot of component parts to it,'' Mr. Axelrod said in an interview after meeting with balky Senate Democrats. ''These folks are not potted plants. They're elected officials, and they're doing their jobs.''
 He added, ''It's a collective process, and we're willing to listen to people's ideas.''
 Asked if they were willing to adopt people's ideas, Mr. Axelrod said: ''We'll see. It depends on the idea.''
 Mr. Axelrod's comments came after a spirited meeting at the Capitol where he and two other Obama aides, Lawrence H. Summers, the incoming national economic adviser, and Philip Schiliro, tapped to be the chief White House lobbyist, heard lots of frustration from Democratic senators. 
 ''There is only one thing we have got to do in the stimulus, and that is how can we create jobs,'' said Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, as he left the meeting. ''I am a little concerned by the way that Mr. Summers and others are going at this in that, to me, it still looks like a little more of this trickle-down, if we just put it in at the top, it's going to trickle down. A number of people in there said, 'Look, we have got to have programs that actually create jobs and put people to work.' '' 
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Budget Committee, said lawmakers and the incoming administration had differences over how to focus the huge federal spending in a recovery bill. ''Investment, investment, investment has got to be the central focus: energy, roads, bridges, waterways, housing,'' he said. ''Job creation is Job One.'' 
 Mr. Conrad, who described the meeting as extremely positive, said Mr. Summers ended it by telling the senators, ''Message received, loud and clear.'' 
 Several Democrats on the Finance Committee earlier in the day questioned the proposal to give tax credits worth $500 to individuals and $1,000 to married couples. Several senators said that initiative would provide a token sum of money, which taxpayers were likely to save, not spend. 
 Senator John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and others also criticized a proposal to give businesses a $3,000 tax credit for each new employee they hire, saying it was unlikely to influence business decisions. 
 After meeting with Mr. Summers, Mr. Kerry said he expected adjustments to be made. ''We are in a good dialogue,'' he said. ''I am very confident about some adjustments being made.'' 
 The Democratic demands clash with those of Republicans who want more tax cuts and express doubts that heavy infrastructure spending would be the best way to stimulate the economy. ''It's very important as we go ahead that we find the right balance,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader. ''Yes, our economy needs help. But at the end of the day, how much debt are we going to pile on future generations?'' 
 With the cascade of conflicting opinions, Mr. Obama's allies pushed for quick passage. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House speaker, said she would cancel the President's Day recess in mid-February if lawmakers had not passed an economic plan by then. ''If we don't have a bill before the president's recess, there will be no president's recess,'' she told reporters.
 Mr. Obama reinforced that urgency in a speech at George Mason University in the Virginia suburbs of Washington. ''For every day we wait or point fingers or drag our feet,'' he said, ''more Americans will lose their jobs, more families will lose their savings, more dreams will be deferred, and our nation will sink deeper into a crisis that, at some point, we may not be able to reverse.''
 The speech was his first since the election and indicated how fully he is stepping into the role of president when it comes to domestic issues even before his inauguration. His advisers have calculated that he cannot wait to begin a campaign to build public support and have mapped out a series of events to explain his economic approach, including booking him on the ABC program ''This Week'' on Sunday.
 For the moment, the public remains strongly in Mr. Obama's corner. The latest Gallup tracking poll this week showed that 65 percent express confidence in his leadership. 
 But Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic political strategist, said the Obama plan's price tag is ''an awfully big number that follows a financial bailout that's strikingly unpopular with the public. Both of these things create a challenge to overcome, some nervousness on the Hill and among the public.''
 Mr. Obama addressed that nervousness in his speech. ''I understand that some might be skeptical of this plan,'' he said. ''Our government has already spent a good deal of money but we haven't yet seen that translate into more jobs or higher incomes or renewed confidence in our economy.'' But he said his plan ''won't just throw money at our problems. We'll invest in what works.''
 Known on the campaign trail for inspirational addresses, Mr. Obama on Thursday was sober and ominous, summoning the nation to meet a daunting task. 
 ''Now, I don't believe it's too late to change course,'' he said, ''but it will be if we don't take dramatic action as soon as possible. If nothing is done, this recession could linger for years.'' 
 Some Democrats said they were not sure that Congress and the Obama administration would ultimately see eye to eye. Mr. Harkin pointed to Mr. Obama's speech earlier in the day to promote the economic recovery package and said the rhetoric did not match the dollars in the plan. 
 ''Obama said today that he wanted to double renewable energy in three years, well we can do it,'' Mr. Harkin said, but he added that spending to jump-start that initiative would have to be included in the stimulus. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama, top, at George Mason University and his financial advisers, above from the left, Christina D. Romer, Timothy F. Geithner and Lawrence H. Summers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); FORECLOSURE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); APPROVALS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); DAVID AXELROD (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



292 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Obama Gap

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
''I don't believe it's too late to change course, but it will be if we don't take dramatic action as soon as possible. If nothing is done, this recession could linger for years.''
 So declared President-elect Barack Obama on Thursday, explaining why the nation needs an extremely aggressive government response to the economic downturn. He's right. This is the most dangerous economic crisis since the Great Depression, and it could all too easily turn into a prolonged slump. 
 But Mr. Obama's prescription doesn't live up to his diagnosis. The economic plan he's offering isn't as strong as his language about the economic threat. In fact, it falls well short of what's needed.
 Bear in mind just how big the U.S. economy is. Given sufficient demand for its output, America would produce more than $30 trillion worth of goods and services over the next two years. But with both consumer spending and business investment plunging, a huge gap is opening up between what the American economy can produce and what it's able to sell. 
 And the Obama plan is nowhere near big enough to fill this ''output gap.''
 Earlier this week, the Congressional Budget Office came out with its latest analysis of the budget and economic outlook. The budget office says that in the absence of a stimulus plan, the unemployment rate would rise above 9 percent by early 2010, and stay high for years to come. 
 Grim as this projection is, by the way, it's actually optimistic compared with some independent forecasts. Mr. Obama himself has been saying that without a stimulus plan, the unemployment rate could go into double digits. 
 Even the C.B.O. says, however, that ''economic output over the next two years will average 6.8 percent below its potential.'' This translates into $2.1 trillion of lost production. ''Our economy could fall $1 trillion short of its full capacity,'' declared Mr. Obama on Thursday. Well, he was actually understating things.
 To close a gap of more than $2 trillion -- possibly a lot more, if the budget office projections turn out to be too optimistic -- Mr. Obama offers a $775 billion plan. And that's not enough. 
 Now, fiscal stimulus can sometimes have a ''multiplier'' effect: In addition to the direct effects of, say, investment in infrastructure on demand, there can be a further indirect effect as higher incomes lead to higher consumer spending. Standard estimates suggest that a dollar of public spending raises G.D.P. by around $1.50. 
 But only about 60 percent of the Obama plan consists of public spending. The rest consists of tax cuts -- and many economists are skeptical about how much these tax cuts, especially the tax breaks for business, will actually do to boost spending. (A number of Senate Democrats apparently share these doubts.) Howard Gleckman of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center summed it up in the title of a recent blog posting: ''lots of buck, not much bang.'' 
 The bottom line is that the Obama plan is unlikely to close more than half of the looming output gap, and could easily end up doing less than a third of the job.
 Why isn't Mr. Obama trying to do more?
 Is the plan being limited by fear of debt? There are dangers associated with large-scale government borrowing -- and this week's C.B.O. report projected a $1.2 trillion deficit for this year. But it would be even more dangerous to fall short in rescuing the economy. The president-elect spoke eloquently and accurately on Thursday about the consequences of failing to act -- there's a real risk that we'll slide into a prolonged, Japanese-style deflationary trap -- but the consequences of failing to act adequately aren't much better. 
 Is the plan being limited by a lack of spending opportunities? There are only a limited number of ''shovel-ready'' public investment projects -- that is, projects that can be started quickly enough to help the economy in the near term. But there are other forms of public spending, especially on health care, that could do good while aiding the economy in its hour of need.
 Or is the plan being limited by political caution? Press reports last month indicated that Obama aides were anxious to keep the final price tag on the plan below the politically sensitive trillion-dollar mark. There also have been suggestions that the plan's inclusion of large business tax cuts, which add to its cost but will do little for the economy, is an attempt to win Republican votes in Congress. 
 Whatever the explanation, the Obama plan just doesn't look adequate to the economy's need. To be sure, a third of a loaf is better than none. But right now we seem to be facing two major economic gaps: the gap between the economy's potential and its likely performance, and the gap between Mr. Obama's stern economic rhetoric and his somewhat disappointing economic plan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); TAX LAW (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



293 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Obama Is Urged to Open High-Tech Exports

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN and WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
When Barack Obama takes office as president, he should immediately change or even scrap many cold-war-era regulations on high-tech exports and on immigration by foreign scientists and engineers, an expert panel said Thursday. 
 Restricting foreigners' access to strategically important technology might have been useful decades ago, when the United States was the undisputed world leader across the technological spectrum, the panel said in a report issued by the National Academy of Sciences. But today, it said, the nation is losing scientific and engineering dominance even as militarily useful advances come increasingly from civilian research. 
 The regulations do little for the nation's security, the panel said, while significantly hampering economic growth and innovation. 
 ''We have failed to distinguish between technology which really does pose a fundamental threat, such as things having to do with nuclear weapons, and technologies which are broadly available,'' like some computer or telecommunication technology, John Hennessy, a co-chairman of the panel, said in an interview. ''In some cases, we have technologies that go on our export control list that are legally available outside the United States in unrestricted form.'' 
 The National Research Council, the research arm of the National Academy of Sciences, convened the expert panel, headed by Dr. Hennessy, an electrical engineer who is president of Stanford; and Brent Scowcroft, the retired Air Force general who was national security adviser to Presidents Gerald R. Ford and George Bush. The report is at www.nas.edu.
 Export rules or immigration restrictions on scientists and engineers draw little public attention, but they are an important part of what some analysts call ''the ecology of innovation,'' factors in society that inhibit or enhance the development of useful and profitable technologies. 
 Over the years, several federal panels and private groups have suggested changes in the rules. But the report said the issue never gained political traction because it was ''arcane'' and ''under the radar'' of most Americans.
 Other experts say some potential critics held back for fear of being labeled soft on national security. That fear arose often when the country in question was China, which is progressing quickly in computing, aerospace and other high-tech areas.
 Mr. Scowcroft said the restrictions limited the collaboration of American scientists and engineers with colleagues from other countries, ''harming our national security by harming our economy.'' 
 He said in an interview that the government should assume that technology was eligible for export unless shown to be a danger, rather than requiring would-be exporters to prove the opposite.
 Dr. Hennessy said it would be difficult to put a dollar figure on the costs the regulatory environment had exacted on the American economy. But, he said: ''It inhibits companies from going into certain technologies. They don't want to deal with the whole uncertainty.''
 The people expected to deal with these issues in the Obama administration would not comment on the report. But in a technology position paper issued during his presidential campaign, Mr. Obama said he supported ''comprehensive immigration reform'' to encourage skilled workers to enter and remain in the United States. 
 Speaking of the aerospace industry, he said he would review export rules that had ''unduly hampered'' competitiveness. 
 In their report, panel members said they had deliberately designed recommendations that could be put into effect at once, through an executive order, which they said should be ''one of the first orders of business in January.''
 But Baker Spring, a national security analyst with the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group in Washington, said that while there might be merit in some immediate changes, anything that could be done quickly ''is almost certain to be incomplete.'' 
 Mr. Spring, who said he had not read the report, said he favored a country-by-country approach because policies appropriate for ''close allies'' like Britain or Australia might not be appropriate for countries like China.
 Among other things, the panel said the president should do the following:
 Restructure the export-control process to advance economic competitiveness as well as national security, allowing ''openness and engagement to prevail unless a compelling case can be made for restrictions'' which, in turn, must have ''a rational basis.''
 Require controls to be reassessed at least yearly.
 Establish two independent panels within the National Security Council to assess controls and decide disputes about export limits.
 Streamline the visa process for scientists and engineers and automatically allow foreign students to remain in the country at least a year after earning advanced degrees in scientific or technical fields. 
 Allow American experts to vouch for ''well-known scholars and researchers'' seeking to enter the United States. 
 ''The U.S. cannot protect U.S. jobs by denying access to foreign professionals,'' the panel said. ''Jobs will simply go abroad.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brent Scowcroft, a former national security adviser, was on a panel that criticized immigration restrictions on scientists.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL T. POWERS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COLD WAR (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (55%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (83%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



294 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Census Crunch Time

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama has pledged to quickly nominate a commerce secretary after his first choice, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, withdrew this week. Frankly, the far more pressing task at the Commerce Department is to name a new director of the Census Bureau. 
 With only a year to go before the nationwide count in 2010, Mr. Obama needs to nominate a strong new director who can move swiftly to counteract years of political meddling and neglect that have left the bureau ill prepared to conduct the next census. 
 This page has issued many warnings about the bureau's state of unreadiness, as have members of Congress and advocates for groups that tend to be undercounted in a less-than-robust census, especially racial and ethnic minorities, immigrants, the poor and the disabled. In November, Congressional investigators named the 2010 census as one of 13 issues requiring Mr. Obama's immediate attention.
 Any further delay increases the chances, which are already too high, of a botched census in 2010. That would be a very expensive failure of a constitutionally mandated duty on Mr. Obama's watch. The damage would be compounded in 2012, when the new census data will be used by state governments to redraw electoral districts. If the census is not accurate, the electoral map also would not be -- for years to come. 
 If Mr. Obama and his team need any more reasons to act now to rescue the census, they should note that the party most likely to benefit from a faulty count is certainly not their own. That's because an inaccurate census generally overcounts people who tend to fit the Republican profile -- white, English-speaking and suburban -- and to undercount diverse, mobile urban populations. 
 The census also is used to allocate federal aid to states -- an increasingly important issue in the midst of the country's deep economic troubles. 
 More than a month ago, this page noted that the director of the acclaimed 2000 census, Kenneth Prewitt, would be the obvious choice to pull the 2010 census out of the hat. If the Obama team has a better candidate, it's past time to put his or her name forward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (74%); RACE & RACISM (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL RICHARDSON (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



295 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 442 words

 BODY:
PAY TO PLAY BONDS? The authorities have been investigating what appears to be collusion in the multibillion-dollar municipal bonds market. 
 RETAILERS' FEARS CONFIRMED Sales in the retail industry fell 2.2 percent for the holiday shopping season, the biggest decline since at least 1970. [B1.] 
 HOPE FOR LOANS BILL Congressional Democrats say Citigroup has ended its opposition to their plan to give bankruptcy judges the authority to restructure home loans. [B1.] 
 DIGITAL DELAY POSSIBLE On Feb. 17, all TV broadcasting was supposed to switch to digital signals, but the transition team of President-elect Barack Obama wants to postpone the deadline. [B1.] 
 LAX LENDING BY BOARDS From 2004 to 2006, many dividends were as freewheeling as the mortgages given to homeowners with bad credit. High & Low Finance: Floyd Norris. [B1.] 
 INVALUABLE ENDORSEMENT President-elect Barack Obama has become BlackBerry's most prominent user, a pitch that would be worth millions if he could charge for it. [B1.] 
 SECRET NO MORE UBS will close about 19,000 accounts held by Americans that may have gone undeclared to the Internal Revenue Service. [B1.] 
 MERRILL EXECUTIVE QUITS Gregory J. Fleming, the investment banking chief at Merrill, says he is leaving to teach at Yale. [B4.] 
 RATE CUT IN BRITAIN Britain's central bank reduced its interest rate to 1.5 percent, the lowest level in more than 300 years. [B5.] 
 PALM'S NEW SMARTPHONE Introducing a rival for the iPhone and BlackBerrys, Palm has created the Pre, left, a replacement for its Treo, and the company announced a partnership with Sprint. [B4.] 
 MADOFF BAIL SCRUTINIZED In their effort to revoke Bernard L. Madoff's bail, prosecutors said that on the day of his arrest, investigators found checks worth $173 million in his desk. [B5.] 
 In the wake of the Madoff scandal, the Securities and Exchange Commission ends an exemption on auditors for privately held brokerage firms. [B5.] 
 ADVOCATES FOR DIVERSITY A project announced by the N.A.A.C.P. and a lawyer from Washington aims to increase the number of black workers on Madison Avenue. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B6.] 
 JOBLESS CLAIMS RISE Unemployment benefits hit a 26-year high, with the number of people still on jobless rolls after a week of aid at 4.61 million. [B8.] 
 LIGHT TRADING As investors wait for the release of employment numbers, the markets closed mixed. [B8.] 
 MORTGAGE RATES RECORD The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 5.01 percent, the lowest point since Freddie Mac began its survey. [B2.] 
 LAYOFFS AT MEREDITH Country Home magazine is closed, and its publisher cuts 250 jobs. [B3.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SMARTPHONES (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ARRESTS (73%); SCANDALS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); JUDGES (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (56%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%); COUNTRY HOME MAGAZINE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (72%); BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



296 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: City Employee Pay Is Outpacing Private Sector, Report Says

BYLINE: By DAVID CHEN

 BODY:
Bolstered in part by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's spending, the average New York City employee cost the city $107,000 a year in wages, health insurance, pension and other benefits in the 2008 fiscal year, an increase of 63 percent since 2000, according to a new report.
 City worker compensation grew twice as fast as that of employees in the private sector and elsewhere in the public sector during the same period, the Citizens Budget Commission said in the report, which was released on Thursday. The increase was driven by contractual raises that outpaced the inflation rate, and by the rising cost of health insurance and pension benefits, said the commission, a business-backed research group. 
 The group said those benefits have remained ''exceptionally generous'' under Mr. Bloomberg.
 And with the city staring at a projected $7 billion deficit by 2011, fiscal watchdogs are intensifying their calls for the Bloomberg administration to act more aggressively to control employee costs.
 ''These skyrocketing costs are stunning,'' said Carol Kellermann, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, ''and they impose an enormous, and growing, burden on increasingly strained taxpayers. Corrective action is essential and can no longer be delayed.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has long defended giving healthy raises to the city's workforce of 281,000 to attract the best people and make city jobs competitive with those in the suburbs. Some critics contend that recent contracts he has negotiated with teachers and police officers, among others, are too generous, and have been driven by Mr. Bloomberg's political aims as he seeks warm relations with powerful unions.
 Critics also say that Mr. Bloomberg has not been forceful enough addressing soaring health and pension benefit costs. Those costs have jumped by 182 percent since 2000, according to the Citizens Budget Commission, in contrast to a 52 percent increase for other state and local governments, and a 40 percent increase for private industry. 
 Part of the reason that health benefits have jumped so much, the report said, is the city's longstanding practice, unchanged by Mr. Bloomberg, to pay 100 percent of health insurance premiums for employees and their families, as well as for retirees and their spouses. The report noted that ''Most other employers require their workers to pay some share of the premium.''
 Other factors are beyond the mayor's control, according to the report, such as actuarial recalculations and lower investment returns, as evidenced recently by the impact of the recession.
 Still, Charles M. Brecher, the commission's research director, said: ''His record is mixed. On the pay side, he started out doing a terrific job, based on productivity, but his performance has slipped. On fringe benefits I don't think he's been aggressive enough to tackle the problems.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has had some success, however, battling the Legislature's seemingly endless desire to sweeten pension benefits. Last month, Mr. Bloomberg developed the local component of an ambitious plan unveiled by Gov. David A. Paterson seeking to reduce benefits for newly hired state and local workers by creating a new pension category, which would require employees to work longer and retire later to receive pension benefits, a move long opposed by the unions.
 Indeed, the Citizens Budget Commission praises that proposal, and urges the State Legislature to pass it. ''I think the report is very clear,'' said Marc LaVorgna, a Bloomberg spokesman. ''It lays the blame at the foot of pension costs. Costs for employees are always going to go up. That's not irregular. But we have been extraordinarily burdened by a pension system that we have no control over.''
 The report recommends that the city do more to restructure health insurance costs by negotiating with the Municipal Labor Committee. The administration hopes to save $200 million; the commission says ''larger savings should be pursued on a more urgent basis.''
 Asked about spiraling health care costs, Mr. LaVorgna said: ''Rapidly rising costs are not unique to New York City government. That's a national problem and there's really not a local solution to what's a national health care problem.''
 Over all, the report found that city employee pay rose to an average of $69,000 annually as of last June 30, up from $52,000 in 2000, an annual increase of 3.6 percent, while inflation rose an average of 3.2 percent during the same period. Average benefits now cost almost $38,000 a year, up from $13,000 a year.
 Thanks to overtime and other supplemental payments, firefighters have an average annual compensation package totaling $186,000, the highest among city employees. Department of Education employees cost the city almost $99,000 annually.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INFLATION (73%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



297 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Former U.S. Attorney Seeks to Unseat Corzine

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Declaring that the experience and leadership style he developed as a prosecutor had prepared him to repair a state ''broken'' by high taxes and political stasis, Christopher J. Christie, the former United States attorney for New Jersey, filed papers on Thursday announcing his candidacy for governor. 
 Mr. Christie, a former Republican fund-raiser, was greeted by skepticism when President Bush appointed him in 2001, but won widespread admiration for his aggressive fight against political corruption. During the seven years that Mr. Christie was the top federal prosecutor in New Jersey, his office won convictions or guilty pleas from more than 130 elected or appointed government officials without a single acquittal. 
 In a letter e-mailed to his supporters on Thursday, Mr. Christie, 46, said his record of taking on New Jersey's troubled political culture had shown that he was capable of making tough decisions and getting results.
 ''Many didn't believe we could win these battles,'' Mr. Christie wrote. ''We did, and with strong leadership we will win the fight for governor and change this state for the better.''
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat who is expected to seek re-election, was traveling back from Iraq and did not intend to comment on Mr. Christie's entry into the race, according to the governor's spokesman. But Democratic Party officials said Mr. Christie, whom they termed a ''Bush-Cheney appointee,'' had not aired his views on a variety of politically controversial issues and faces a primary battle against at least three opponents.
 ''Let's see if he even wins the nomination; then we'll talk,'' said Joseph Cryan, a state assemblyman from Union and the Democratic state chairman. ''Right now, we're busy trying to fix the Bush-Cheney economic mess.''
 Republicans have not won a statewide race in New Jersey since Christie Whitman was re-elected governor in 1997, and the state's demographic trends and voting patterns have become more favorable to Democrats since then. But Mr. Corzine's approval ratings have languished in the low 40s in recent public opinion polls, and some surveys have shown Mr. Christie polling within a few points of the governor. 
 The recession, the steep drop in the stock market and the credit crisis have combined to put New Jersey's fiscal affairs in turmoil and could stoke anger at an incumbent like Mr. Corzine, according to many political analysts.
 ''Instead of cutting ribbons, Governor Corzine's going to be cutting budgets between now and November, so it'll give the Republicans something substantial to hammer him with,'' said Joseph R. Marbach, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at Seton Hall University. ''If they don't hammer each other too much, they should find themselves in a good position to take the Democrats on.'' 
 But the troubled economy could make it difficult for Mr. Christie to raise the money needed to compete with Mr. Corzine, a former Wall Street executive, who has used tens of millions of dollars from his personal fortune to finance his previous campaigns.
 Mr. Christie's announcement came as a relief to many Republican leaders, some of whom have tried to coax him into the race. Thomas H. Kean Jr., the State Senate minority leader, said he thought Mr. Christie's record would provide voters with a clear contrast to the way Democrats have governed since winning the governor's office in 2001. 
 ''Chris brings extraordinary management ability and leadership that will help make New Jersey more affordable and improve the business climate,'' Mr. Kean said.
 Mr. Christie's Republican competitors gave him a bruising welcome to the race. Steven M. Lonegan, one of two other Republicans who have filed papers to vie for the party's nomination, said he thought Mr. Christie was not conservative enough for a majority of primary voters.
 ''This is going to be a battle for the soul of the Republican Party,'' said Mr. Lonegan, who has already raised $400,000 and has qualified for matching funds. ''It's the conservative free market and the big-spending, big-government, high-tax wing of the party. And if they win, we'll be cast into the wilderness for another 10 years.''
 Mr. Christie's supporters said he would be wise to avoid being drawn into ideologically conservative positions if he hopes to retain his appeal among the moderates and liberals who have dominated general elections in New Jersey.
 Mr. Christie declined a request for an interview, but his prepared remarks seemed calibrated to broaden his appeal by focusing on the high taxes and cost of living that have driven businesses, jobs and residents from the state.
 ''Our state's business tax climate is ranked 50th in the nation and has become so unattractive to employers that only government jobs are growing in New Jersey,'' Mr. Christie said. ''Yet nothing in Trenton gets done to fix these problems. We can change this. We can solve these problems if we're willing to make the tough decisions.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher J. Christie won admiration in his seven years as a prosecutor in New Jersey.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE DERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); TRENDS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



298 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Homeowner Relief Bill Wins Backer

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Eric Dash in New York contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a move that would help troubled homeowners, Citigroup agreed to support legislation that would let bankruptcy judges adjust mortgages for at-risk borrowers, leading Congressional Democrats said on Thursday.
 Financial industry lobbyists, however, said the plan was flawed and vowed to fight legislation aimed at easing up on homeowners facing foreclosure.
 Members of the House and Senate said Citigroup had agreed to drop its opposition, providing no future mortgages are covered by the law. 
 Citigroup, which is receiving more than $300 billion in bailout assistance, says that it is open to measures that would help homeowners.
 ''Citi shares this legislation's goal to help distressed borrowers stay in their homes, and believes it will serve as an additional tool to the extensive home retention programs currently in place to help at-risk borrowers,'' Vikram S. Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, wrote in a letter released Thursday night.
 The revised bill that Citigroup endorsed would allow bankruptcy judges to adjust the principal payments or interest rates on existing loans. 
 Judges could also extend the terms on mortgage loans, according to the language of the bill, which would force lenders to take losses without a say in bankruptcy court proceedings.
 Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said he and fellow backers of the plan see it as a way to create more voluntary negotiations between struggling homeowners and financial institutions. So far, voluntary programs have proved ineffective, Democrats said.
 Citigroup had been part of the Bankruptcy Coalition of the Financial Services Roundtable, an industry group, since it aggressively lobbied for changes to the bankruptcy code in 2005. 
 The coalition -- a group of major trade associations and lenders like Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo &#151; also fought to block the so-called cramdown legislation last year.
 No other bank has broken ranks with the industry on the proposed bill. Mr. Durbin said he hoped the move by Citigroup, should other banks and financial trade associations take the same stance, would lead to backing by enough Democrats and moderate Republicans to push the bill through.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said he had been contacting officials of top financial institutions for months, trying to persuade them that it would be to their advantage to back the plan since it could help stabilize a housing market that has severely hurt the economy.
 Three changes were made to the legislation sponsored by Mr. Durbin and Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee: only existing mortgages will be eligible; homeowners will have to certify they tried to contact their mortgage holder lenders regarding loan modifications before filing for bankruptcy; and only major violations of the Truth in Lending Act will cause lenders to forfeit their claims in a bankruptcy. 
 Backed by bankers and other financial groups, many Congressional Republicans and some Democrats have balked at the plan to let bankruptcy judges alter mortgage terms on primary residences, saying that would drive up mortgage costs.
 But officials said financial institutions were coming to the conclusion that it might be better to get a reduced loan payment through a bankruptcy or voluntary negotiations than to get no money at all.
 Aides to Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Senate banking committee, said he would have no immediate response to the plan. 
 Scott E. Talbott, senior vice president for government affairs at the Financial Services Roundtable, said the group opposed cramdown legislation because it ''creates huge risks'' for the mortgage market.
 He suggested the bill would force banks to further restrict lending and absorb huge losses as the economy worsens. He also suggested the bill would create perverse incentives that might encourage more homeowners to seek bankruptcy protection. 
 Citigroup recently began negotiating with lawmakers, in a move that some observers suggest reflects its desire to win favor on Capitol Hill after receiving billions in funds from the bailout program.
 The government has invested $45 billion in Citigroup and agreed to guarantee about $269 billion in highly illiquid mortgage investments.
 ''If you're looking at a way to get to the bottom of the economic problems in our country, this is the cause of our economic problems,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee. ''It is the housing foreclosure problem. We've got to address that.''
 The plan has been backed by members of Congress who see it as a way to help distressed homeowners and balance federal relief efforts that have been aimed at Wall Street and the automobile industry.
 Mr. Schumer said he had been in contact with other large banks and he expected they would soon announce their support or at least drop their opposition to the plan.
 ''Citigroup's action has broken the dam,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (77%); VIKRAM PANDIT (58%); JOHN CONYERS (57%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



299 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Daschle Lays Out a Plan To Overhaul Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Tom Daschle formally began the incoming administration's arduous quest to overhaul the nation's health care system on Thursday, telling former Senate colleagues that the task had become more urgent because many people were losing health insurance, along with their jobs, in the recession.
 Members of both parties offered a friendly welcome to Mr. Daschle, the man chosen by President-elect Barack Obama to be secretary of health and human services, in charge of a department with 65,000 employees and a budget of more than $700 billion a year. 
 The hearing was the first of many to be held for members of the team being assembled by Mr. Obama. The questions and answers touched only briefly on the economic and fiscal crisis that will test the new administration.
 Mr. Daschle spoke with passion about the hardship he had witnessed among people without insurance, who he said faced ''total economic destruction'' if they became ill. ''The stories of personal bankruptcy are the ones that come back to me so frequently,'' he said.
 He predicted that ''as we face a harsh and deep recession, the problem of the uninsured is likely to grow.'' Mr. Obama has promised to offer affordable coverage to the more than 45 million people who are uninsured.
 Having represented South Dakota in the House for 8 years and in the Senate for 18, Mr. Daschle understands the ways of Washington. He graciously answered questions from senators, echoed their concerns and fluently discussed fine points of health policy without consulting notes or briefing books.
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, presided over the hearing as chairman of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. Mr. Kennedy, who is battling brain cancer, hailed Mr. Daschle as the man who could achieve a goal that Democrats have pursued for decades.
 ''Reform is urgently needed,'' Mr. Kennedy said, ''and Tom Daschle is just the person for the job.''
 Mr. Daschle will have another hearing, before the Finance Committee, where he is likely to face tougher questions about Medicare, Medicaid and other entitlement programs. But Mr. Daschle appears likely to win confirmation soon after Mr. Obama takes office on Jan. 20.
 In response to questions, Mr. Daschle told Republicans that he would work with them on overhauling the health care system.
 ''I really want to work in a collaborative way,'' said Mr. Daschle, who was introduced and endorsed by Bob Dole, the former Senate Republican leader and onetime presidential candidate.
 Mr. Daschle said the Obama administration would not try to rush health care legislation through Congress under expedited budget procedures, which would limit the opportunity for debate and amendments.
 ''I'm determined to work with each of you and use the regular order to produce the best product we can,'' Mr. Daschle said.
 The hearing did not indicate how far and how fast Mr. Obama would go in efforts to remake the health care system.
 ''When health care reform collapsed in 1994,'' Mr. Daschle said, ''I remember all the criticisms people had after the fact. They said it took too long, they said the process was too opaque, they said the plan was too hard to understand and they said the changes felt too dramatic.
 ''These are good arguments for undertaking reform in a way that is aggressive, open and responsive to Americans' concerns,'' he said. ''They are not good arguments for ignoring the problem.''
 Elsewhere on Capitol, Hill, the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said the nation's economic problems would ''inhibit our ability'' to expand federal health programs. Medicare, like Social Security, already faces enormous ''unfunded liabilities,'' he said.
 On other issues, Mr. Daschle said he would reduce the influence of politics at federal science agencies, seek more money for community health centers, speed the approval of low-cost generic versions of prescription drugs and try to increase Medicare payments to family doctors and other primary care physicians. 
 He also said he would increase federal support for rural health care providers, encourage greater use of health information technology and place more emphasis on the prevention of disease, rather than the treatment of it.
 Mr. Daschle was not asked, and did not say, how he would pay for the new initiatives. 
 His testimony came as projections from the Congressional Budget Office showed that the budget deficit would reach a record $1.2 trillion this year, without counting the costs of legislation to revive the economy. 
 Mr. Daschle said he would welcome changes in the way Medicare paid doctors. Medicare now uses a fee schedule, which pays a separate fee for each service. 
 Instead of this arrangement, Mr. Daschle said, Medicare should pay for ''healthy outcomes'' and ''episodes of care,'' which could include the work of doctors and hospitals.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Daschle emphasized a point Thursday at a hearing of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); MEDICARE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); CANCER (50%); BRAIN CANCER (50%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TED KENNEDY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



300 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Major Push Is Needed to Save Afghanistan, General Says

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Michael Falcone contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The top American commander responsible for Afghanistan, Gen. David H. Petraeus, said Thursday that the country would require a ''sustained, substantial'' commitment from the United States and other nations to stop a downward spiral of violence and a resurgence of the Taliban and Al Qaeda.
 General Petraeus, who declined to suggest a time frame for that commitment, also said that Iran, which has been the target of United Nations sanctions because of its nuclear program, had common interests with the United States and other nations in a secure Afghanistan. 
 Although he hinted that such interests might make talks with Iran feasible, he said he would leave the topic to diplomats and policy makers.
 ''I don't want to get completely going down that road because it's a very hot topic,'' General Petraeus told a conference of the United States Institute of Peace, a government-financed research organization. Nonetheless, he said, ''there are some common objectives and no one I think would disagree.''
 Like the United States, Iran is concerned about the narcotics trade in Afghanistan and the resurgence of extremists there, he said. ''It doesn't want to see Sunni extremists or certainly ultrafundamentalist extremists running Afghanistan any more than other folks do,'' he said, while acknowledging that the United States and Iran have ''some pretty substantial points of conflict out there as well.''
 President-elect Barack Obama said frequently during the campaign that he considered Afghanistan the central front in defeating terrorism. The Obama administration is expected to send 20,000 to 30,000 more American troops to Afghanistan over the next year. 
 General Petraeus also cautioned that security in Afghanistan would not improve if the only initiative was the deployment of more American troops; he said that Afghanistan required a diplomatic and economic commitment as well. 
 ''There has been nothing easy about Afghanistan,'' General Petraeus said. Although ''the natural tendency will be to look to the way progress was achieved in Iraq for possible answers,'' he added, it is clear that Afghanistan is different from Iraq.
 Afghanistan has a higher illiteracy rate, more difficult terrain and fewer developed resources than Iraq does, he said.
 The daylong conference, which was meant to highlight the foreign policy challenges facing the new administration, also included a warning from William J. Perry, a defense secretary in the Clinton administration, that Mr. Obama will ''almost certainly'' face a serious crisis with Iran during his first year in office.
 Mr. Perry, who is influential in Democratic national security circles and has ties to members of Mr. Obama's foreign policy team, said that Iran was ''moving inextricably'' toward developing nuclear weapons. 
 ''And it seems clear that Israel will not sit by idly while Iran takes the final steps toward becoming a nuclear power,'' he said. 
 On Thursday, Mr. Obama filled top Pentagon positions under Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.
 For deputy secretary of Defense, Mr. Obama selected William J. Lynn III, an executive and lobbyist at the defense contractor, Raytheon, who served as undersecretary of defense in the Clinton administration. Although Mr. Obama campaigned against the influence of lobbyists in government, a transition spokesman said Mr. Lynn came highly recommended by both Republicans and Democrats. 
 ''The president-elect felt it was critical that Mr. Lynn fill this position,'' said the spokesman, Tommy Vietor.
 Michele A. Flournoy, a leader of Mr. Obama's transition team for the Pentagon, was selected for the No. 3 job, under secretary of defense for policy. Ms. Flournoy was the lead architect of the Clinton administration's 2001 Quadrennial Defense Review, a strategy and planning document that the Pentagon is required to produce every four years.
 The transition team also said that Robert F. Hale, who was assistant secretary of the Air Force during the Clinton presidency, would become an under secretary of defense, serving as the Pentagon's chief financial officer. 
 Mr. Obama named Jeh Charles Johnson as the Defense Department's general counsel. Mr. Johnson served as general counsel of the department of the Air Force during Mr. Clinton's second term.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Friday about American military plans in Afghanistan and personnel changes at the Pentagon misstated the year that Michele A. Flournoy, chosen as under secretary of Defense for policy by President-elect Barack Obama, was the principal writer for a Quadrennial Defense Review issued by the Clinton administration. It was 1997, not 2001.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. David H. Petraeus in Washington on Thursday. ''There has been nothing easy about Afghanistan,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); AL-QAEDA (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); LITERACY RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE (56%); US INSTITUTE OF PEACE (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



301 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Punishment Over a Detainee's Death

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
A Rhode Island detention center says it is punishing seven employees in connection with the case of a New York computer engineer from China whose extensive cancer and fractured spine went undiagnosed, despite his pleas for help, until shortly before he died in immigration custody last summer. 
 The disciplinary actions, ranging from firing to reprimand, resulted from an internal investigation that found ''specific failures to comply with facility policies and procedures,'' according to a statement issued this week by the board of the center, the Donald W. Wyatt Detention Facility in Central Falls, R.I., a locally owned jail that mainly houses federal detainees. 
 Spokesmen for Wyatt, which is being sued by the widow of the engineer, Hiu Lui Ng, 34, declined to provide any more details. And they stood by earlier assertions that ''Mr. Ng was provided appropriate and timely medical attention to diagnose the late-stage cancer which ultimately caused his death.'' He died on Aug. 6, after a year in immigration custody, the last month of it spent at Wyatt. 
 Lawyers for Mr. Ng's family said the announcement raised more questions than it answered at a time when federal immigration authorities, citing their own continuing investigation into Mr. Ng's treatment, have removed their detainees from Wyatt and stopped placing any more of them there. The federal investigation began soon after The New York Times reported in August on the case, one of several detainee deaths that have drawn Congressional scrutiny to complaints of inadequate medical care, human rights violations and a lack of oversight in immigration detention.
 ''The extent of the discipline highlights that there is a systemic problem at Wyatt,'' said Steven Brown, director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Rhode Island, who is one of the lawyers representing the family. He maintained that the detention center's decision to discipline seven employees did not square with its defense of Mr. Ng's medical treatment.
 Wyatt and Central Falls city officials, citing the jail's long record of accreditation by the American Correctional Association and warning of layoffs and economic distress, have been lobbying Rhode Island's Congressional delegation for a return of the immigration detainees, who filled about a third of the jail's 722 beds. The government paid Wyatt more than $100 a day for each, and officials say the jail has been losing about $100,000 a week since the detainees were scattered to other jails last month.
 John J. McConnell Jr., a lawyer who is handling the Ng litigation without fee for the American Civil Liberties Union, said Wyatt was ''walking a fine line,'' trying to take just enough disciplinary action to get back the detainees, without admitting wrongdoing. 
 ''I just wish somebody would take responsibility for the needless torture of Jason Ng,'' Mr. McConnell said, using the American name that Mr. Ng adopted when he arrived from Hong Kong as a teenager with his parents on visitors' visas. ''No one is taking responsibility for him. That, for me, is the terrible thing about how we as a society treat immigration detainees.''
 The lawyers have been frustrated in their efforts to obtain Wyatt's records on Mr. Ng, who overstayed a visa years earlier and was detained for possible deportation after his wife, an American citizen, sponsored him for a green card. 
 In court papers, Wyatt claimed that under a federal regulation issued after 9/11, it could not disclose any information about a detainee, even a name, without specific authorization from Immigration and Customs Enforcement. A federal judge has postponed a ruling on the matter while she studies the intent behind the regulation.
 Asked whether the immigration agency was withholding permission to provide records to Mr. Ng's survivors, Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman, declined to answer, citing its investigation. 
 But lawyers for the Ng family are confident they will eventually get to examine the evidence of Mr. Ng's ordeal, including video recordings made by guards. In affidavits and interviews, lawyers, relatives and other detainees have said that even when Mr. Ng (pronounced Eng) was in too much pain to walk, use the bathroom or stand in line to get pain medication, he was accused of faking his illness and was repeatedly denied a wheelchair. 
 A week before his death, according to an affidavit by a lawyer who spoke with Mr. Ng and other witnesses at the time, five guards dragged him out of his cell and drove him in shackles to a federal lockup in Hartford, where an immigration agent pressured him to drop his appeals and agree to deportation.
 Asked about that episode, Phillip Loscoe Jr., a spokesman for Wyatt, said, ''Whether or not Mr. Ng should or should not have been sent to Hartford is not a decision that we at Wyatt make.'' 
 Mr. Loscoe and another spokesman would not say which jail employees were being punished or why, citing the litigation by Mr. Ng's family and the federal investigation. The warden, Wayne Salisbury, confirmed in a recent interview that a captain who refused Mr. Ng the use of a wheelchair was suspended last fall, with pay. On Friday, Mr. Salisbury referred a reporter's questions to jail spokesmen, who declined to answer them. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officers at the Wyatt detention center in Rhode Island, where a New York man, Hiu Lui Ng, died in August. Mr. Ng had cancer and a fractured spine, which went undiagnosed at the jail.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BONE FRACTURES (90%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PRISONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TORTURE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); LOBBYING (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (64%); ACCREDITATION (50%); CITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



302 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING PROFESSIONAL WRESTLING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 48 words

HEADLINE: W.W.E. Is Cutting Staff

BYLINE: By AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE

 BODY:
World Wrestling Entertainment has proved to be no match for the recession. The company said it was slashing 10 percent of its staff to save an estimated $8 million annually. According to the latest available figures, the firm, based in Stamford, Conn., had 570 employees at the end of 2007. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



303 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Global Financial Crisis Upends the Plans of Many South Koreans to Study Abroad

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Seo Ji-won was supposed to have been in Sydney, Australia, by now, pursuing her dream of a doctoral degree and higher-paying jobs. Instead, the 26-year-old South Korean engineering graduate remains home in Seoul, working part time at a coffee shop, largely because of forces beyond her control.
 The global financial crisis has hammered confidence in South Korea's once-booming economy, decimating the value of its currency, the won, and forcing tens of thousands of students to alter their study plans, or cancel them altogether. 
For Ms. Seo, the won's plunge in value by a third just in the last few months drove up the cost of her four-year degree program by $10,000, far beyond her savings.
 ''I like to say that I'm in pause mode,'' Ms. Seo said. ''My future depends on the won going back up.''
 In recent years, studying abroad has become de rigueur for competitive students in this education-obsessed nation. As the growing economy raised living standards and strengthened the won, increasing numbers of parents sent their children overseas to learn English and earn prestigious foreign degrees, hoping to help them gain a leg up in South Korea's intensely competitive job market, or to help them escape from its high-pressure education system.
 According to Education Ministry officials, about 350,000 South Korean students went abroad in 2007, most of them university-age but some in elementary school and even kindergarten. South Koreans have become the largest group of foreign students in the United States, according to American government statistics, outnumbering even those from China, with a population much larger than South Korea's 48 million people.
 ''The strong won made overseas education become affordable, perhaps too affordable, for more South Koreans,'' said Choi Won-seok, an executive director at uhak.com, an agency based in Seoul that helps students study abroad. ''Korea experienced a study-abroad bubble.''
 Now there are early signs that the bubble may be deflating.
 In October, the Education Ministry said the number of elementary and secondary students going abroad fell in the first half of 2008 for the first time since the government started keeping count a decade ago. In a separate report, the central bank said spending on overseas education fell by 5.8 percent in the same period from the year before to $2.3 billion, the largest decline since the 1997 Asian financial crisis.
 While job security and the overall slowing of the economy play a role, the biggest factor has been the rapidly falling won, education experts and students say. The currency's drop from a peak of nearly 900 per dollar in mid-2008 to about 1,360 per dollar now translates to a 50 percent price increase in foreign goods -- like tuition, room and board, and airfare -- in just a few months. 
 To be sure, Mr. Choi and others say, many South Koreans seeking advanced degrees, especially at top American or European universities, are likely to go anyway. 
 However, a larger number of students enroll in short-term, often one-year programs, to study English or other languages. Last year, some 150,000 South Koreans went abroad for this kind of study. This year, the number is likely to fall by 30 percent to 40 percent, Mr. Choi said.
 Some of those forced to abandon their plans fear the decision could hurt their prospects. 
 Kang Youn-mo, a 24-year-old French major, canceled plans to go to Paris in December to study for at least two months. She said she now felt intimidated by college classmates who had studied abroad and spoke better French.
 ''I feel at a disadvantage,'' she said. ''The global economy has not been good to me.''
 Those still going abroad face other problems. Lee Min-hye, a 22-year-old bioengineering major at Yonsei University in Seoul, had planned to study English in Boston and dreamed of strolling through Boston Common, which she saw once in a movie. But then the won's decline pushed the price of tuition above her father's annual salary as a semiconductor engineer.
 After much agonizing, she decided to attend a school in Sydney that costs about 40 percent less.
 ''You can't give up if you want a good job in the future,'' she said. ''You have to go abroad somewhere to keep up with all the other Koreans who study abroad.''
 Other South Koreans are choosing still cheaper countries for English-language study, such as South Africa and Malaysia. One of the most popular low-cost destinations is the Philippines, where students can live in resort-like accommodations and receive one-on-one lessons for about $750 a month.
 Some education experts worry that if the financial crisis drags on, it could worsen social inequalities by making study abroad at top schools a privilege affordable only for the wealthy. 
 ''Upper-middle-class families will still have the ability to send their children abroad, even if it means great sacrifice,'' said Oh Ookwhan, a professor of education at Ewha Womans University in Seoul. ''This will allow them to stay ahead of less fortunate families.''
 Fear of falling behind makes most South Koreans reluctant to abandon their plans, even if they have to postpone them. Ms. Seo, who canceled her studies in Sydney, said she remained determined to go, despite pressure from family and friends to settle down in Seoul and get married. She has tried to save more money and keep up her English skills while waiting for the crisis to pass.
 ''I feel insecure, just waiting like this,'' she said. ''But I won't give up my education.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lee Min-hye decided to study in Australia instead of the United States because of a drop in the value of South Korea's currency.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEOKYONG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); PRICE CHANGES (66%); STATISTICS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (73%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009



304 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Plans to Cut 4,500 Jobs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
The Boeing Company, the airplane maker, is planning to cut about 3 percent of its work force as jetliner demand falls, hurt by the global economic downturn. 
 The Chicago-based company on Friday said that it expected to cut about 4,500 positions from its passenger jet business, which has factories in the Seattle area. Many of the cuts will be in areas not directly associated with aircraft production.
 The news comes a day after Boeing reported a 15 percent decline in passenger jet deliveries for 2008, when it faced an eight-week strike by union workers and shrinking airline demand. 
 Orders for Boeing planes, meanwhile, plunged by more than half last year, following three years of exceptionally strong bookings, a grim reminder that carriers have been scaling back spending since the summer to cope with fewer air travelers.
 Most of the job cuts announced Friday are expected to occur in Washington state in the second quarter of the year, the company said. Boeing says employees will receive 60-day notices starting in late February.
 ''We have made significant strides in recent years to achieve greater efficiency and productivity, but we still face challenges that we must address,'' Scott Carson, president and chief executive of Boeing's commercial airplanes division, said in a statement.
 Boeing said the cuts will enable it to continue focusing on development programs, airplane deliveries, productivity improvements and quality, as well as customer support.
 The company said this year's cuts would eliminate roughly the number of positions added to its commercial aircraft operation in 2008, lowering the total number to 63,500. Boeing employed a total of 162,191 people as of Dec. 31.
 Boeing shares fell 11 cents to $44.68.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); STRIKES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); AIRLINES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%)

PERSON: SCOTT E CARSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



305 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Hearst Looks to Sell Or Close Seattle Paper

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The Seattle Post-Intelligencer will stop printing in 60 days unless the newspaper's owner, the Hearst Corporation, can find a buyer by then, the company said on Friday.
 Hearst said that if it could not find a buyer, it would either shut the paper entirely or make it an Internet-only operation with a much-reduced staff.
 Steven R. Swartz, president of the company's Hearst Newspapers division, flew from the corporate headquarters in New York City to deliver the word at a 10-minute newsroom meeting convened shortly after noon in Seattle, standing alongside Lincoln Millstein, Hearst's senior vice president for digital media; Roger Oglesby, the Post-Intelligencer publisher; and David McCumber, the managing editor. After the meeting, the company issued a press release confirming the news. 
 Mr. Swartz, who took over the newspaper chain last month, said The Post-Intelligencer, owned by Hearst since 1921, had lost money every year since 2000, including a $14 million loss in 2008, and that the picture would only worsen in 2009.
 He explicitly ruled out a Hearst purchase of the rival Seattle Times, which had long been rumored to be the company's plan.
 ''People are crushed,'' said Lewis Kamb, 38, a reporter at The Post-Intelligencer. ''My wife and I both work for the P-I, and we've got a 5-month-old baby boy. We probably have to put our house on the market, and there's no one buying homes right now.''
 Several employees who attended the meeting said that Hearst executives refused to answer questions about potential severance payments. The Newspaper Guild's contract with the paper, which provided for severance, expired in 2008 and has not been replaced.
 The employees said they and their colleagues were stunned by the announcement, and that many of them left the meeting in tears. Some were insulted at first hearing the news in a report by local television station on Thursday night; as one reporter said, ''they let us get scooped on our own news.''
 The prospects of finding a buyer appear poor, in a deeply troubled industry, during a recession and a credit crisis. Many newspapers have been put on the block in the last year but have not sold, including The Chicago Sun-Times, The Union-Tribune of San Diego and The Miami Herald.
 The Hearst announcement echoes one made last month by the E. W. Scripps Company, which said that if it could not find a buyer for The Rocky Mountain News in Denver, it might close the paper. Very few American cities support more than one major daily newspaper anymore, and Seattle and Denver, each with about 600,000 residents, are among the smallest.
 Since 1983, The Seattle Times and The Post-Intelligencer have had a joint operating agreement, maintaining separate, competitive newsrooms while sharing most other expenses.
 For years, the prevailing guess was that The Times, owned by the Blethen family and the McClatchy Company, would be the one to throw in the towel, and that Hearst might buy The Times and merge the two papers.
 But as newspaper circulation slipped, The Post-Intelligencer lost ground much faster than its rival; its weekday circulation averaged about 118,000 in 2008, down from 196,000 a decade earlier. The Times's weekday circulation was 199,000 last year, and the two papers' combined Sunday edition averaged 382,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); SEVERANCE PAY (63%); CREDIT CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (98%); E W SCRIPPS CO (61%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (51%)

TICKER: SSP (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (98%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (98%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



306 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Ciprianis to Fight Termination of Rainbow Room Lease

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; Jake Mooney contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Ciprianis, Italian restaurateurs renowned for their elegance, Bellini cocktails and very expensive pasta, have lost their lease for the Rainbow Room atop Rockefeller Center for failing to pay the rent. But in what is shaping up to be a very public fight, they are vowing to remain there.
 The Ciprianis announced a few days ago that they would close the adjoining Rainbow Grill this weekend because of the economic crisis and a continuing lease dispute, but would still operate the main Art Deco space for catered affairs, dinner and dancing. 
 On Friday morning, however, Tishman Speyer Properties, the landlord at Rockefeller Center, told the Cipriani company that it was terminating the lease because the company had failed to pay millions of dollars in rent since September. Under the lease, the Ciprianis have three days to get out.
 But as with all things Cipriani, they have their own version of events. The family -- led by Giuseppe Cipriani, 43, whose grandfather founded Harry's Bar in Venice -- says that the termination notice is part of a continuing effort by Tishman Speyer ''to drive them out of business'' at the Rainbow Room, according to their lawyer, David Rozenholc.
 Mr. Rozenholc said Tishman Speyer had imposed an ''insanely high'' rent when the Ciprianis renewed their lease for the 64th and 65th floors at 30 Rockefeller Plaza a year ago. The Ciprianis challenged the rent increase and the matter went into arbitration. After Christmas, the arbitrator came down on the Ciprianis' side, and cut the rent to $6 million a year, from $8.7 million, according to two executives who asked not to be identified because arbitrations are supposed to be private.
 Still, there's the matter of the back rent. And Tishman Speyer wants them out for failure to pay.
 ''Since September 2008, Cipriani has failed to pay its rent for the Rainbow Room,'' said Robert Lawson, a spokesman for Tishman Speyer. ''As a result, we are forced to end its lease. The Rainbow Room is one of our city's great institutions, and we will immediately begin the process of finding another great restaurateur to operate the space in the first-class manner that New Yorkers and visitors deserve.''
 But the Ciprianis have no intention of vacating the premises, Mr. Rozenholc said. ''We are going to fight it in court,'' he said. In any event, the current fight has all the fanfare and acrimony that accompanied the Ciprianis' takeover of the Rainbow Room management a decade ago. 
 Giuseppe Cipriani fired 250 union employees who had helped make the restaurant a favorite among New Yorkers and tourists alike, igniting a long battle with the restaurant workers' union.
 At the same time, the Ciprianis set about converting the Rainbow Room into a catering hall and restricting public access to the restaurant and its famed revolving dance floor. Tim Zagat, then the chairman of the city's convention and visitors bureau, denounced the move. ''It's a terrible thing for the city and for Rockefeller Center to close off the public from the high-end tourist attraction in New York where people imagined themselves to be Fred and Ginger,'' he said at the time.
 Ultimately, the family compromised -- with the union and on its vision for the Rainbow Room. 
 Wealthy European tourists, Wall Street bankers and others have flocked to the Ciprianis' upscale restaurants and catering halls in Manhattan, including Cipriani Wall Street, Harry Cipriani on Fifth Avenue in the Sherry-Netherland Hotel, and Cipriani Dolci at Grand Central Terminal. But the Ciprianis have also tangled with restaurant reviewers, other landlords and District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau. Later this month, they will close their banquet hall in the former Toy Building on 23rd Street near Madison Square Park as part of a settlement with the landlord there.
 In 2007, Giuseppe Cipriani and his father, Arrigo Cipriani, then 75, pleaded guilty to charges related to tax evasion and were fined $10 million. And last year, the State Liquor Authority accepted the family's offer of $500,000 to settle charges of more than four dozen violations of state laws at nine venues, including the Rainbow Room. In exchange, they were allowed to keep their liquor licenses.
 Tishman Speyer, which gained control of Rockefeller Center in the late 1990s, brought in the Ciprianis to manage the Rainbow Room because it wanted an operator who would pay a higher rent and add some pizazz to what it thought was a tired location. The former operators, Joseph Baum and David Emil, had been paying about $2.6 million a year and offered to overhaul the Rainbow Room. But they were unwilling to pay as much as the Ciprianis.
 Some things did not change. Hicham Derdari, a waiter at the Rainbow Room for two decades, paused on Wednesday to reflect on its mystique and recall some of the celebrity patrons he has waited on: Neil Armstrong, Al Pacino, Robert De Niro. Mr. Derdari said he believed that the room was popular because it allowed ordinary people and luminaries to dine and dance together in an elegant setting.
 The Cipriani company issued a statement Friday saying that the landlord's campaign would put 300 employees out of work. ''We fully anticipate that we will prevail against these frivolous actions,'' the statement said. ''Unfortunately, we are dealing with an uncompassionate and greedy landlord who has not made any efforts to resolve our differences in a reasonable manner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dancing at the Rainbow Room last year. The landlord for the restaurateurs who operate it say they are millions behind in rent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (76%); LAWYERS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: HARRY'S BAR LTD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



307 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Blasting Off From the Coney Island Boardwalk

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP and ANN FARMER

 BODY:
It sometimes feels as if New York has been bidding farewell to old Coney Island for as long as there has been a Boardwalk. With almost every change, its raucous spirit is diminished. Yet then it somehow keeps staggering on.
 But as death knells go, the removal this week of the Astroland Park rocket is right up there. 
 Astroland closed last year. The Albert family, which opened the park in 1962, still owns the fixtures but not the land, which it sold. Now, the property must be vacated. It is subject to a rezoning measure and may eventually be redeveloped by Thor Equities, though probably not in the foreseeable future.
 With her nose pressed to an office window overlooking the abandoned amusement area, sandwiched between the Cyclone and the Wonder Wheel, Carol Albert recalled her father-in-law, Dewey Albert.
 ''He was a total visionary,'' she said. ''He had a great imagination and was swept up in the spirit of the space age.''
 But not the space age of utilitarian shuttles and orbiting stations; rather, the space age of snazzy fins and silvery curves and blinking lights and twinkling stars and ''This Island Earth,'' all wonderfully embodied in the Astroland rocket -- a k a the Star Flyer, the Cape Canaveral Satellite Jet and/or the Astroland Moon Rocket -- a 71-foot, 12,000-pound aluminum tube that once seated 26 earthbound lunar explorers for a three-minute simulated blastoff.
 ''It has this iconic importance,'' said Charles Denson, executive director and co-founder of the Coney Island History Project and the author of ''Coney Island: Lost and Found.'' ''When Astroland opened in 1962, it represented this optimism. It was the beginning of the space race. There was a lot of excitement about space travel. The rocket was the first piece in Astroland and it set the tone for the space-age theme park.''
 The vehicle -- if you can fairly call it that -- was made in California by the United States Amusement Company, he said.
 As originally installed, he said, the rocket was mounted on a hydraulic lift. After passengers strapped themselves into their galvanized steel seats, a film would begin playing in a porthole-shaped screen at the front of the cabin.
 ''Stars would start spinning as if you were taking off,'' said Mr. Denson, who rode it himself as a boy. ''It would shake a little bit and go up and you'd really have the feeling of space travel. Or as close as people got in those days.''
 As a ride, it was closed in the early 1970s, he said, and then mounted on the roof of the Gregory & Paul's restaurant building, to serve as a billboard for Astroland along the Boardwalk. Its dismantling this week was covered by Curbed and other blogs, which left open the question of what will happen to the rocket.
 Ms. Albert said she is having discussions about the rocket with city officials, who hope to find a way to relocate it to a new Steeplechase Plaza area. 
 A spokeswoman for the New York City Economic Development Corporation confirmed the city's interest in the artifact in a statement on Friday, but did not go too much further: ''Astroland's rocket ship is an important part of Coney's past and we hope that it will remain in Coney Island for generations to come. As for storing or moving the rocket, the city doesn't comment on ongoing negotiations.'' 
 For now, the rocket sits forlornly, its nose tilted toward the moon.
 By Thursday, nearly 30 tractor-trailers had been loaded with classic Astroland rides and driven out. There was no sign of the Scrambler, the Tilt-a-Whirl or the Mini Tea Cup. Dante's Inferno, a haunted house, stood empty and ravaged, looking more haunted than ever. The Pirate Ship was moored atop a flatbed truck, awaiting storage. 
 Several workers crouched over the dirt under the Top Spin ride, combing it with boards.
 ''Buried treasure,'' said one man, pulling a handful of old coins out of his pocket that he had found in the dirt, change that had fallen out of people's pockets when they had been turned upside down. 
 Still standing was the large star-studded entrance sign. ''Astroland,'' it proclaimed.
 Above, in smaller type, were the words ''Please come again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Astroland Park rocket after it was removed this week from its longtime perch over the Coney Island Boardwalk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Advertising the rocket in 1962, the year Astroland opened. Known then as the Star Flyer, the 71-foot rocket functioned as a ride, giving passengers a three-minute taste of space travel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CONEY ISLAND HISTORY PROJECT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ZONING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



308 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: For Jagr, Ups and Downs in Russia

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
As Jaromir Jagr got ready for the latest unique experience in a season already full of them, he said he had no regrets about leaving the N.H.L. to play in Russia, despite watching a teammate die on the bench, having his coach quit in the middle of a game and playing in a league whose financial situation is said to be faltering.
 ''You could write a book about it,'' Jagr said of his season during a telephone interview from Moscow. ''But I'm fine. I'm doing good. I'm happy.'' 
 On Friday, Jagr was getting ready to take center stage for the All-Star Game of the Continental Hockey League, or K.H.L., on Saturday at an outdoor rink in Red Square. There, Jagr is the all-star of all stars, the biggest name in a league marketing itself around him. He is the captain of Team Jagr, the team of foreign all-stars, which will play against Team Yashin, an all-Russian lineup led by the former N.H.L. player Alexei Yashin.
 ''I have never played outside before,'' Jagr said. ''Except when I was a little kid.''
 Playing in the shadow of the Kremlin is a far cry from playing on a rink with his friends in Kladno, Czech Republic -- and perhaps a bit odd considering Jagr wears No. 68 in honor of the Prague rebellion against the Soviet Union in 1968 -- and even quite a leap from playing in Madison Square Garden with the Rangers, as he did for the past three seasons. 
 Last summer, Jagr, 36, signed a two-year contract with Avangard Omsk, ending a 17-year N.H.L. career that established him as arguably the best European-born player ever. He left the league with career totals of 646 goals, 953 assists and 2 Stanley Cup titles, won in Pittsburgh in 1991 and '92.
 The decision to head for Russia, where he played during the 2004-5 N.H.L. lockout, has brought him a combination of joy and sadness. The worst of it came in October, when a teammate, Alexei Cherepanov, died after a game in Chekhov of what was later determined to be a heart ailment perhaps complicated by injections of kordiamin, a drug on the list of substances banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency. Cherepanov was sitting next to Jagr on the bench after a shift when he collapsed.
 ''It's not something you can describe, when a teammate dies right next to you,'' he said. ''You try to keep moving, but your heart is not in it, not in practice, not in games. You are telling yourself you have to keep going, but it is not easy. I never went through anything like that before.''
 Jagr and his Avangard teammates tried to rebound after Cherepanov's death, but their season took another bizarre turn this week when Coach Wayne Fleming left their game on Thursday after the second period and did not return. A Russian newspaper reported that Fleming resigned, but Jagr said he still does not know why Fleming left.
 ''I didn't see him after the game and I haven't talked to him,'' Jagr said. ''Nobody saw it coming.''
 Jagr had helped recruit Fleming, a former Calgary Flames assistant who is good friends with Rangers Coach Tom Renney, to take over as Avangard's coach in September. 
 The turmoil has only added to the rumors that the K.H.L. is on shaky ground and that players like Jagr may be trying to return to the N.H.L.
 One of the main sponsors of the K.H.L. is the Russian natural gas monopoly Gazprom, hit hard by the faltering global economy and currently embroiled in an international dispute that has resulted in the cutoff of shipments to Europe. League officials have floated the idea of reducing player salaries by 25 percent to 30 percent, similar to the N.H.L.'s reduction of salaries after the 2004-5 lockout.
 Quite naturally, those rumors have encircled Jagr, one of the league's highest-paid players with a yearly salary reported at nearly $10 million.
 But Jagr said there was no basis for them.
 ''There are no problems with our team,'' Jagr said. ''The organization is good. They take care of the players. The league is good. The level of hockey here is very good, better than I expected.''
 Jagr leads Avangard in scoring with 21 goals and 44 points in 43 games. He is the sixth-leading scorer in the K.H.L.
 He said he did not think much about turning his back on the N.H.L., preferring to look forward from the moment he made his decision. He keeps in touch with Renney and watches how the Rangers are doing, but he says his job is now to be the showcase star for a league that badly needs him.
 ''I don't think it would be good to think about it,'' Jagr said when asked if he had regrets. ''I don't want to look back and think I made a bad decision. Maybe I would be happy in the U.S. still. You never know. I don't ask myself that question.''
 For now, he has an outdoor game to think about and a season to make sense of.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (74%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (71%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



309 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Investment Tax Cuts Help Mostly the Rich

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
MORE Americans than ever before have learned firsthand the perils of investing in the stock market, as the value of retirement accounts like 401(k) plans plummeted over the last year.
Never before has the pain of a bear market in stocks been spread as broadly in the United States as this one has, a fact that has intensified the economic impact of the collapse in share prices that began in late 2007.
But while the pain of the bear market has been spread widely, the tax benefits of stock ownership have become more concentrated among the wealthy. 
That seeming paradox stems from the differing treatment of profits on capital gains, depending on whether the stock or other asset is held in a taxable account or a retirement account.
Most Americans hold stocks, and stock mutual funds, in their retirement accounts, principally in 401(k) accounts. Those accounts are not taxed until the money is taken out, usually after retirement. But then, the money is fully taxed at ordinary income tax rates, regardless of whether or not it came from capital gains.
As a result, the reduction of the tax rate on long-term capital gains to 15 percent in 2003, and the accompanying reduction of the tax on most dividends to the same amount, provided no additional benefits to most Americans. But it produced substantial benefits for those who owned stocks in taxable accounts.
A new study by the Congressional Budget Office traces the proportion of capital gains reported on tax returns of various income groups from 1979 through 2005, with the results shown in the accompanying graphics.
In 2005, the latest data available, the top one-tenth of 1 percent of taxpayers -- a group that included those with after-tax incomes of more than $1.5 million -- reported $335 billion in capital gains, or just over half the total amount of capital gains. By contrast, the bottom 95 percent of the income distribution -- those with incomes under $126,300 -- had just $69 billion in capital gains, about 10 percent of the total.
The well-off have always received most of the capital gains, of course. But the distribution has become more skewed in recent years. A generation earlier, in 1979, the first year for which data is available, the bottom 95 percent had 20 percent of the gains, and the top one-tenth of 1 percent had a little over a third of the gains.
The accompanying chart shows the total amounts of capital gains reported each year, adjusted for inflation, in 2005 dollars. As it happens, in 2003, the first year of the new low capital gains tax rate, it provided no net benefit for the 60 percent of Americans at the bottom of the scale. As a group, they had net capital losses of $600 million.
The budget office data also indicates that higher-income people received a similar large share of the benefits from the reduction in the tax rate on dividends. But that is not as clear because the data lumps dividend payments with interest payments.
It is worth noting that a taxpayer needed much higher income in recent years to be a member of the most elite groups. Expressed in 2005 dollars, the after-tax income needed to make the 21st percentile rose 9 percent from 1979 through 2005, to $17,800. The income necessary to reach the 81st percentile climbed 36 percent, to $67,400, and the number for the 96th percentile leaped 57 percent, to $126,300.
But to be among the top one-tenth of 1 percent, the amount needed soared 215 percent, from $486,500 to $1.5 million. And while in 1979, it took after-tax income of $1.8 million (in 2005 dollars) to qualify for the most elite group -- the top one-hundredth of 1 percent -- membership in that group in 2005 required income of $8.6 million, an increase of 365 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Low- and middle-income investors have become much more exposed to the stock market in the past quarter-century, largely through 401(k) retirement plans. But the tax breaks for investors in stocks -- now a 15 percent rate on dividends and capital gains -- are not available for retirement accounts, whose holders pay full individual income tax rates when they withdraw the money. Most of the tax benefit goes to very-high-income individuals, and that proportion has been increasing.: Capital gains reported by taxpayers in each year, in 2005 dollars.
 Percentage of capital gains in each year.(Source: Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); US 401K PLANS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



310 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Baltimore Mayor Indicted In Theft and Perjury Case

BYLINE: By DOUG DONOVAN

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
Mayor Sheila Dixon of Baltimore was indicted Friday, accused of stealing gift cards donated to the city for needy families and failing to report trips, fur coats and other luxuries paid for by a local developer who was her former boyfriend.
 The indictment, which follows a nearly three-year state investigation, charges that from 2003, when she was City Council president, until shortly after she became the first woman to be elected mayor of Baltimore, in 2007, Ms. Dixon, a Democrat, committed perjury, theft, fraudulent misappropriation and misconduct in office. 
 She is charged with using at least $2,000 in donated gift cards for Target and Best Buy to buy a digital camcorder, a PlayStation 2, an Xbox 360 and other electronic devices for her personal use and failing to disclose her trips to New York, Chicago and other places with a prominent developer, Ronald H. Lipscomb. 
 City ethics laws require elected officials to disclose gifts from people doing business with the city. Mr. Lipscomb's company, Doracon, a minority subcontractor, often works on developments that receive city tax breaks.
 After state prosecutors raided the mayor's home last summer, carting away boxes and other items, Ms. Dixon publicly acknowledged having had a ''personal relationship'' with Mr. Lipscomb in 2003 and 2004 after both had separated from their spouses. The mayor said the relationship had not influenced her ''decisions related to matters of city government.'' 
 Mr. Lipscomb and a City Council member, Helen Holton, were indicted this week on bribery charges, but their indictment did not mention Ms. Dixon.
 After Ms. Dixon's indictment was announced on his official Web site, Maryland's state prosecutor, Robert A. Rohrbaugh, said in a statement, ''The citizens of Baltimore have every right to expect their public officials will be open and honest and will not use the office for personal motives, gain or greed.''
 Ms. Dixon and her chief lawyer, Arnold M. Weiner, denied the charges at a news conference on Friday afternoon.
 ''I am being unfairly accused,'' Ms. Dixon said. ''Time will prove that I have done nothing wrong, and I am confident that I will be found innocent of these charges.''
 Mr. Weiner said that Mr. Rohrbaugh was obsessed with indicting the mayor and that his investigation was politically motivated. Mr. Rohrbaugh was appointed in 2004 by the governor at the time, Robert L. Ehrlich Jr., a Republican. Ms. Dixon is a close ally of Gov. Martin O'Malley, a Democrat, who was Baltimore's mayor before he defeated Mr. Ehrlich in November 2006. 
 ''Sheila Dixon has been the state prosecutor's singular personal obsession,'' Mr. Weiner said. ''There wasn't a bed sheet he failed to look under.''
 Before the state prosecutor began his investigation in 2006, Ms. Dixon and the entire City Council were the subject of a federal public corruption inquiry by United States Attorney Thomas DiBiagio, a Republican appointee who left office after memorandums publicly surfaced that seemed to indicate political bias against the Council, whose members were all Democrats. Mr. DiBiagio's successor dropped the investigation. 
 Mr. Weiner said Friday that the state charges against Ms. Dixon were nearly identical to accusations that federal prosecutors had deemed not worthy of pursuing. 
 The charges claim that Mr. Lipscomb paid for a $2,000 gift certificate that the mayor used to buy a Persian lamb coat and a burnt umber mink coat. The indictment also states that he may have spent nearly $13,000 on items, travel and personal services for Ms. Dixon at Saks Fifth Avenue, Giorgio, Coach and St. John Boutique, all in Chicago; at the Ritz-Carlton in Avon, Colo., and the Trump International hotel in New York . 
 The two traveled together to New York in February 2004, hours after Ms. Dixon, then council president, had voted to approve a $13.6 million tax break for a Lipscomb project, according to court records. Mr. Lipscomb could not be reached Friday for comment.
 Mr. Weiner said Ms. Dixon did not have to report gifts from Mr. Lipscomb because his company was not on the official lists of those that do business with the city. Mr. Weiner said city law allowed Ms. Dixon to continue her work as mayor, with an annual salary of $151,700. Many residents attribute last year's sharp decrease in homicides in the city to Ms. Dixon's leadership, particularly her decision to hire a local police commissioner. 
 ''I will continue to put all of my energies into running the City of Baltimore during these perilous economic times,'' Ms. Dixon said. ''And with God's grace, I am confident that the city, my family and I will weather this storm.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheila Dixon vowed to fight on as mayor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LARCENY & THEFT (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); ETHICS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BRIBERY (73%); FAMILY (73%); MISAPPROPRIATION (70%); LAWYERS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%)

PERSON: MARTIN O'MALLEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



311 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: A Father in Trouble, and a Mortgage Long Overdue

BYLINE: By ABBY AGUIRRE

 BODY:
James Coles, 12, would prefer that you not go into his room because it's ''all messed up.'' 
 ''You can't even, like, see the bed,'' he said.
 But he will bring some of his room to you: dozens of his Japanimation-style drawings, rendered in colored pencil.
 James sorts through his work on the living room floor in the Long Island home he shares with his stepmother, Alita Coles, 42, and sister, Dominique, 15. He said his influences are anime and manga -- Japanese comics -- and graphic novels. ''But I'm, like, just getting started,'' he said. 
 James began to grow interested in drawing when a cousin showed him how to sketch a few cartoons. Then he discovered Naruto, a comic series about an adolescent ninja, and was inspired to draw more.
 This all happened in the spring of 2008, which also happens to be when he saw his father get arrested.
 James and his father had gone to a Baskin-Robbins near their home, in Baldwin, one April evening. James was inside, ordering a scoop of strawberry. His father, James Coles Sr., was waiting outside.
 ''I looked out and saw the police creeping to up to the car with a gun pointed at my dad,'' James said.
 Mr. Coles was arrested on a drug charge and put in the back of a car. James was put in another car and driven home. (Mr. Coles accepted a plea bargain in November, and is expected to be released from prison next month.)
 Since James and Dominique have little contact with their mother, who lives in Florida, their stepmother was left to care for them, a job that grew a little more challenging after their father's arrest, when both children's grades plummeted.
 As James threw himself into drawing, Dominique pursued her own interests, which are, according to Ms. Coles, ''boys and hair,'' and according to James, ''being annoying.'' 
 (For her part, Dominique says her main interest is the video game Guitar Hero, adding, ''I do not think about boys.'')
 Ms. Coles was immediately faced with big money problems. The family lost the $4,000 a month in take-home pay that Mr. Coles had made at a construction job. She had been laid off in March from her job as marketing representative at a health insurance company, where she brought home $3,500 a month.
 The $311 in weekly unemployment payments Ms. Coles was receiving left scarcely enough to buy food, let alone make the $3,100 monthly mortgage payment. A more pressing problem was how to pay for medications for James, who has a chronic seizure disorder. Along with Ms. Coles's job, the family had lost its health insurance.
 James had begun taking a drug that helps prevent seizures three years ago, after having a severe seizure in class in the fourth grade. Later, James began taking medication for attention deficit disorder, and for insomnia.
 In July, with only two days of medication left, Ms. Coles saw a flier for F.E.G.S. Health and Human Services System, a nonprofit beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York, one of seven organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 ''You see people going for public assistance in movies, but you never think, 'That could be me,' '' she said. ''Well, that was me.''
 A caseworker at F.E.G.S. drew $541.97 from the fund to buy a month's worth of medication for James. She also helped Ms. Coles apply for Medicaid, which the family began receiving in August.
 Ms. Coles's primary concern now is to keep their home out of foreclosure; she has been unable to make a mortgage payment since April. She continues to look for work, particularly in the health insurance or marketing fields. 
 James is counting the days until his father's release. In the meantime, he is building up his art portfolio, which now includes an anime portrait of his stepmother, whom he calls Lee Lee.
 ''Lee Lee's real helpful,'' he said. ''When we don't behave, she disciplines us right. And when we do good, she does good stuff for us. So, it's like, she's a good mom.''
 How to Help
 Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to:
 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. 
 All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. Checks intended for a particular Neediest agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest gift.
 BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, NY 11217 (718) 310-5600
 THE CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, NY 10022 (212) 371-1000
 CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, NY 11201 (718) 722-6000
 THE CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 949-4800
 THE COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 254-8900
 THE FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES, INC 281 Park Avenue South New York, NY 10010 (212) 777-4800
 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, NY 10261-4100 (212) 980-1000 
 For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 730- 0927. 
 No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. 
 Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. 
 To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alita Coles and her stepson, James, at home. He has taken an interest in drawing
 she has been struggling to make ends meet.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (87%); INSURANCE (76%); ANIMATION (76%); STEPPARENTS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (64%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (64%); CHRONIC DISEASES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



312 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: 'Dividing The Estate' To Survive In Hartford

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Of the nine Broadway productions that closed this week, one is taking steps -- some of them unusual -- to revive itself for the Tony Awards and beyond, in spite of the current economic climate.
The new lease on life has been granted to ''Dividing the Estate,'' an acclaimed play by Horton Foote that began Off Broadway in 2007 and had a limited 10-week run on Broadway, which ended on Sunday. In May it will be transferring, largely intact, to Hartford Stage for five weeks. The producers and cast members said they hoped that the move would not only help Mr. Foote, who is 92, win his first Tony this June, but also interest other nonprofit theaters around the country in the production.
Hartford Stage will continue to pay the 13-member cast its Broadway-level salaries -- about twice what it typically pays -- and the current producer, Lincoln Center Theater, is providing the sets, costumes and scrim curtain to Hartford for only a nominal fee. The atypical arrangements also provide for five of the actors in ''Dividing the Estate'' to appear in a Hartford Stage production of ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' adapted by Christopher Sergel, which will immediately precede the reopening of Mr. Foote's play. 
If the production does receive Tony nominations, which will be announced on May 5, Tony voters would have a second chance to see the play at Hartford Stage, where it is to reopen on May 28. Tony balloting ends on the evening of June 5.
Mr. Foote is a longtime favorite of the New York theater world; he won Academy Awards for his screenplays of ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' and ''Tender Mercies'' and a Pulitzer Prize for his play ''The Young Man From Atlanta,'' which was seen on Broadway in 1997. (''Young Man'' was nominated for best play that year, but lost to Alfred Uhry's ''Last Night of Ballyhoo.'')
''It would be wonderful to win, of course,'' Mr. Foote said at the closing-night party for ''Dividing the Estate'' at Sardi's on Sunday. ''But I have come not to expect such things.''
Michael Wilson, who is both the director of ''Dividing the Estate'' and the artistic director of Hartford Stage, said he hoped the show's run there would win attention from theaters in Washington or Los Angeles that might be interested in a transfer -- or even from producers in New York, for another run in the city.
The Broadway production of the play was always intended to be a limited run; its theater, the Booth, was already booked with the forthcoming musical ''The Story of My Life,'' which opens next month. Still, given the strong reviews for ''Dividing the Estate,'' Mr. Wilson and cast members said they had hoped to extend the run at the Booth, perhaps with ''The Story of My Life'' finding another theater or delaying its opening.
''The cast and I had several discussions -- we wanted this to continue,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''And we concluded that, if we can't be in New York, two hours away is not very far. But having it run to coincide with the Tony Awards made it all the better.''
''Dividing the Estate'' stood out as an anomaly in the 2008-9 season: it was neither a revival of a well-known play with movie and television stars in major roles (as in the case of ''Equus,'' ''Speed-the-Plow,'' ''The Seagull'' and ''All My Sons''), nor a new play with a famous actor who is known to theatergoers of all ages (the coming ''33 Variations,'' which stars Jane Fonda).
Nor was it particularly successful financially, though because Lincoln Center Theater is a nonprofit producer, financial success was not the primary object. (Lincoln Center Theater's current smash, ''South Pacific,'' is generating plenty of income.)
Lincoln Center Theater allocated $2.3 million for ''Dividing the Estate.'' During the play's run on Broadway, revenue from ticket sales exceeded expenses for 6 out of the 10 weeks, said Bernard Gersten, the executive producer of Lincoln Center Theater.
Mr. Gersten said the play also filled, on average, about 80 percent of its audience seats; according to weekly reported grosses, that was a higher percentage in some weeks than those for ''Equus'' and ''Speed-the-Plow'' (though those shows are in houses with more total capacity). Mr. Gersten said the production brought in a total of $200,000 more than its weekly operating expenses.
About 45 percent of ''Dividing the Estate'' tickets went to Lincoln Center Theater members (who are similar to subscribers, but have more flexibility than a typical subscriber arrangement allows in choosing shows to attend); they paid $40 to $50 per ticket, while the rest of the tickets were sold to the general public. In the run's final week the average paid admission was $65.90.
''I thought 'Dividing the Estate' did quite well, from a financial perspective, but Lincoln Center is not in this to make money, and you couldn't call the show a real moneymaker, per se,'' Mr. Gersten said. ''Its importance to us was the high quality of the writing and the heartfelt quality of the performances.''
Mr. Foote, whose first play, ''Texas Town,'' was produced Off Broadway in 1941, had a few more productions on Broadway in the 1940s and '50s; since then he has been represented there only by ''The Young Man From Atlanta'' in 1997 and ''Dividing the Estate'' this winter.
In 2006 Signature Theater Company was eager to find a Broadway house for its production of Mr. Foote's ''Trip to Bountiful,'' which was widely praised, especially for the performance of Lois Smith in the leading role. Going to Broadway was ''a no-brainer,'' said James Houghton, Signature's artistic director, but the producers could not find a vacant theater.
That failure to move to Broadway, which would have made the play eligible for the Tonys, was a severe disappointment to some of those involved in the production; they said privately that Mr. Foote would have had a good shot at a Tony for best revival of a play, and Ms. Smith for leading actress.
''Dividing the Estate,'' meanwhile, was a critical and popular Off Broadway hit in the fall of 2007 at Primary Stages; it was next to impossible to get a ticket for its limited run, once the reviews appeared. Among its admirers was Andre Bishop, Lincoln Center Theater's artistic director, who in 2002 had worked with Mr. Foote on a production of his play ''The Carpetbagger's Children,'' which Mr. Wilson also directed.
''We had a relationship with Horton,'' Mr. Bishop said, ''and I very much wanted to work with him again, and 'Dividing the Estate' seemed like a wonderful Broadway play, and so many people had been unable to see it Off Broadway.''
With the continuing run of ''South Pacific'' taking up the larger Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center, and its sister theater, the Mitzi E. Newhouse, occupied with other productions, Mr. Bishop and Mr. Gersten turned to Midtown theaters as homes for productions of ''Dividing the Estate'' as well as for their coming revival of ''Joe Turner's Come and Gone'' by August Wilson.
The team behind ''Dividing the Estate'' said it hoped that its efforts to keep the show alive would not only reward Mr. Foote with a Tony but also prove that the current recession is not a death knell for some plays.
''The economy is proving very bad for a lot of theaters, a lot of productions,'' Mr. Gersten said, ''so I'm even more proud that you just can't kill this play of Horton's.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Horton Foote's ''Dividing the Estate'' is moving to Hartford. (C1)
 Arthur French, foreground, as Doug in Horton Foote's ''Dividing the Estate.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



313 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Continue to Trim Inventories

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Businesses cut their wholesale inventories for a third consecutive month in November as sales continued to plummet by record amounts, further evidence of the severe recession gripping the country.
 The Commerce Department reported Friday that wholesale inventories dropped 0.6 percent in November while sales were down a record 7.1 percent. 
 Businesses are expected to keep paring inventories in coming months as sales weaken further in the midst of a recession that is already the longest in a quarter-century. Many economists do not expect a recovery to begin until the second half of this year.
 The 0.6 percent decline in inventories was slightly smaller than the 0.8 percent drop that economists had expected. The government revised the decline in October inventories to show a drop of 1.2 percent, however, even worse than the 1.1 percent fall reported earlier. Inventories fell by 0.4 percent in September.
 The declines reflected the struggle businesses were having trying to keep stockpiles in line with plunging sales. The 7.1 percent drop in sales at the wholesale level in November was a record, surpassing the old mark of a 4.5 percent drop set in October. The 2.1 percent drop in September wholesale sales had tied a record from April 2003.
 The economy stumbled badly last fall after being hit by the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, prompting businesses to begin slashing payrolls and cutting back on their investment plans.
 The inventory report showed that the ratio of inventories to sales rose to 1.25 in November, the highest level since April 2003. Wholesale inventories are goods held by distributors who generally buy from manufacturers and sell to retailers. They make up about 25 percent of all business stockpiles.
 The worry is that continued declines in sales will prompt further cutbacks in production, which will mean more job layoffs in the months ahead. Unemployment is already on the rise, reaching 7.2 percent in December.
 On Thursday, the nation's retailers reported dismal sales results for December, confirming fears that the holiday season was the weakest since at least 1969. Even Wal-Mart Stores, which had been one of the few retailing bright spots, reported smaller gains than economists had been expecting.
 Among the retailers reporting big declines were Sears Holdings, which operates Sears and Kmart stores, the luxury retailer Saks and the clothing retailer the Gap.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (91%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (79%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (63%)

COMPANY: GAP INC (80%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (52%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (80%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (52%); WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



314 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: At the New Yankee Stadium, Sanity Rides the Bench

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Suppose a public school wanted some nice new things.
 Things like a 60-inch plasma television for every class, a dining room outfitted with leather banquettes and linen tablecloths, and an emerald green playing field. 
 Suppose, also, that the school already had working televisions, a lunchroom with folding tables that could be cleaned with a sponge, and a big asphalt play yard. 
 The only sane response, of course, is that buying the deluxe items should be postponed until the day every school had textbooks less than 20 years old, or when high schools did not have to drop history electives because of budget cuts, or that science labs and band rooms were equipped with the right tools and teachers. 
 Even in times of great prosperity, the city could scarcely provide these modest basics. Now, beyond all sense or sensibility, the New York Yankees have appeared with a request for $370 million in new taxpayer-backed financing for a new baseball stadium that will open in April.
 This is more. New. In addition to. On top of the $942 million in previous financing, and $660 million that the city is pitching in to replace parkland sacrificed for the new stadium and transportation improvements.
 What is the team going to spend the new $370 million on? 
 Here are some items on the submission filed with the city's Industrial Development Agency: $10.5 million for ''suite level upgrades,'' and $5 million more for ''public washroom upgrades,'' and $1.1 million to ''upgrade suite seats, field seats'' and areas where disabled fans will sit.
 For a better sound and television system in the building, new mounts and screens, a video system and scoreboard, they want $34 million. And $3.9 million for ''extensive cabling necessary to accommodate multiple, domestic and international broadcasters.'' 
 To enclose the press box and build a dining room for employees, they're going to spend $3 million. They also plan to spend $137 million for ''food and beverage build out.'' 
 ''The new Yankee Stadium will house a prime steakhouse, a Hard Rock Cafe, a baseball-themed museum, various retail stores and a banquet, conference and business center,'' the Yankees said in the filing.
 In 2002, soon after Michael R. Bloomberg became mayor, he announced that he was canceling stadium deals made in the last hours of the Giuliani administration.
 ''At the moment, everybody understands that given that the lack of housing, given the lack of school space, given the deficit in the operating budget, it is just not practical this year to go and build stadiums,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 ''You have to set priorities, and the priorities this year do not allow for the construction of sporting stadiums.''
 The city is now in much worse shape. Every agency that serves the public is being cut. 
 How is it that Mayor Bloomberg wants the public to help a professional sports team -- which just announced that it has given three ballplayers contracts worth about $500 million -- pay for a Yankee steakhouse and televisions in luxury suites using bonds that will save the team tens of millions of dollars in interest?
 The Yankees and the city argue that the public will ultimately clear $280 million from the entire deal, a figure questioned by many economists. ''The construction of the new Yankee Stadium is a huge triumph of public policy and private sector initiative,'' a spokeswoman for the team owners said earlier this week.
 The city's central rationale is that the Yankees are going to pay off the bonds issued by the development agency. But they are doing that instead of paying property taxes.
 ''It's like building a new house and telling the local tax collector that you'll pay him, but the money has to go to pay off your mortgage,'' said Richard L. Brodsky, an assemblyman from Westchester who has pried open many details about the stadium deal. ''It's an upper-class Ponzi scheme.'' 
 Members of Mr. Bloomberg's administration fought like tigers to get a free luxury suite with 12 seats for the use of city officials, haggling so that chicken wings were included. In exchange, the team demanded, and got, 250 additional parking spots and the income from three highway billboards.
 With that part of the deal done, a team lawyer, Steve Lefkowitz, issued an invitation for opening day to Seth W. Pinsky, the head of the city agency in charge of the negotiations.
 ''Yes, I think I'll be sitting in a box seat!'' Mr. Pinsky wrote on Aug. 25, 2006. The city and the Yankees undid the suite deal, a little bit, last week. 
 When New York goes through a drought, it is the custom to shut down public fountains, like those in front of the Metropolitan Museum of Art -- not because they use all that much water, but because the dancing towers of water give the illusion of abundance. 
 They just turn off the spigots.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); THEME RESTAURANTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); MAYORS (70%); RETAILERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



315 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COST OF LIVING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Making Frugality A Habit

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
AFTER all the trouble in the economy, no one needs to persuade me of the importance of saving money for a rainy day. What is hard is actually doing it.
 The standard advice is to save three to six months' worth of living expenses -- which sounds wise. But really, how are you supposed to salt away that much cash, given all the other demands on your income?
 Saving is a deceptively difficult task for many people (born savers, I salute you!). Actually saving some money -- let alone the thousands you might need to weather a crisis -- results from a chain of habits and choices that does not, for many people, come naturally. 
 You may know that your job is at risk, or that your nest egg would not last you a week -- and you really ought to start saving right now. But as with many other acts of self-discipline, ''we have great intentions, but our follow-through is abysmal,'' said David Laibson, professor of economics at Harvard, whose primary focus is people's saving behavior, particularly retirement. 
 ''You're happy to go on a diet, you're happy to exercise, you're happy to save -- but you're not happy to do it today,'' Mr. Laibson said. ''We tend to weight the future half as much as we weight the present.''
 The tendency to discount the future is plain when you consider the credit spree of the last decade. As people borrowed astronomical sums on their credit cards and from their homes, savings seemed to dry up. Despite a slight uptick in the middle of 2008, the personal savings rate in this country has been near zero for the last four years. 
 Here is another indicator of how soft our saving muscles have grown. A survey of 401(k) plan participation released in November by Hewitt Associates, a human resources services firm, found a 16 percent increase in hardship withdrawals in 2008. That is a significant jump, because employees must pay penalties and taxes on this money. 
 Part of President-elect Barack Obama's proposed stimulus package includes a plan to make these withdrawals easier by eliminating the penalties. While this could help some people, I would argue that many would still incur a penalty in lost retirement funds -- and the reduced incentive to save on their own.
 Weaving a financial safety net is not just about covering yourself in a crisis. ''It's also about being able to get ahead,'' said Jennifer Wheary, a senior fellow at Demos, a nonpartisan public policy research group in New York. Ms. Wheary is the co-author of a report released in November: ''From Middle to Shaky Ground: The Economic Decline of America's Middle Class.''
 Most people's economic stability depends on a variety of factors. Right now, with so many people facing multiple sources of financial strain, ''it's even more important to have that cushion,'' Ms. Wheary said.
 When you are stretched thin, it can feel impossible to save -- and yet that is when you need to make sure, somehow, that you do, she said. Among the families surveyed for the study, 75 percent ''couldn't survive for three months, if they had to do it on savings alone.''
 My husband and I could easily be one of those families. Every time our emergency fund hits the one-month mark some crisis strolls along and gobbles up our funds. Then we start over. Now, I am determined to save the $15,000 that would cover our family's most basic needs for at least three months. 
 A few tricks that might help. Start by finding a specific chunk you can save -- perhaps cutting back cable, quitting smoking, renting out the garage or limiting spending on restaurant meals. 
 THEN do an end-run around your own inertia and use automatic transfers to deposit a set amount -- $100, $200 or $300 -- every month into an account not linked to your checking and definitely not accessible by PIN or with any piece of plastic. The first time I tried this, I saved $3,000 so fast it made my wallet spin.
 So take care of yourself in this rocky economy. Fear can be a powerful motivator, but so is the lure of knowing that you have created some peace of mind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); US 401K PLANS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); DIETING (66%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (81%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



316 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CENTERPORT JOURNAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: When the Wolf Is at the Door of a Vanderbilt Mansion

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

DATELINE: CENTERPORT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
At the Vanderbilt mansion on the Gold Coast of Long Island, hard times can be seen in the form of a donation box (''Save the Vanderbilt,'' says the label) under the marble bust of Cornelius Vanderbilt, the railroad tycoon who created the family fortune.
 ''Looks like the Vanderbilts are selling apples,'' joked one visitor, alluding to the Great Depression as he wrote a $1,000 check at a recent fund-raiser to help save the Vanderbilt Museum here, which was once the summer home of William K. Vanderbilt II, a railroad executive and a great-grandson of Cornelius. 
 Nicknamed Willie K. and once one of the wealthiest men in America, he kept yachts and race cars at the 43-acre estate overlooking Long Island Sound, and entertained royalty, movie stars and lions of industry. 
 Built with money from the Vanderbilt railroad and shipping fortune, the estate became a symbol of wealth. But it is not recession-proof. Its endowment has plunged during Wall Street's crisis, and museum officials say they have only enough money to stay open through the end of January. 
 Willie K., who died in 1944, left the estate to Suffolk County, along with a large endowment that by 2008 had grown to more than $12 million. But in the fall, it dropped to $8.3 million, which museum officials say will not generate enough income to cover operating costs. A stipulation of the will forbids tapping into the endowment once it dips below $8 million. 
 Museum officials say they need $800,000 to stay open for the rest of 2009, and have turned to county elected officials for help, which has set off public bickering over whether to bail out a place called Vanderbilt.
 Willie K. traveled to his mansion over the Long Island Motor Parkway, which he built over a century ago. Stretching 45 miles across Queens and Long Island, it has been called the first major parkway in the country. The golfer Sam Snead once played on the small course that used to be part of the mansion's grounds, and Willie K. is said to have played Rockefeller family members for $50,000 a hole and entertained guests like the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, Charles A. Lindbergh and Errol Flynn.
 But that gilded era was many years ago, and the museum, which is a 45-minute drive from New York City, has fallen into some disrepair. Donation boxes are placed prominently throughout, and Steven Gittelman, the chairman of the museum's board, placed his 1999 Lincoln Navigator for sale on eBay to raise money. During the fund-raiser it was parked in the mansion's courtyard, with the windows slightly open, and fliers asked visitors to slip cash contributions inside. It has since sold for $4,500, to a Queens man. 
 Mr. Gittelman acknowledged that his Navigator would hardly save the Vanderbilt, but was more a symbolic gesture meant to lure more donations.
 He was busy greeting guests at the Save the Museum cocktail fund-raiser as volunteers accepted donations while sitting next to Willie K.'s 1928 Lincoln, which is not available on eBay.
 Thomas J. Germano, 68, a labor arbitrator from North Babylon, N.Y. -- the visitor who made the joke about the Vanderbilts selling apples -- sat next to the bust of Cornelius Vanderbilt and wrote a check for $1,000. 
 ''This is such an important cultural and historical place, and they aren't building any more of them,'' Mr. Germano said, while guests sipped cocktails and strolled along the hallways of the mansion gazing at the 32-foot stuffed whale shark and the mummy that Willie K. brought back from Egypt.
 A bar giving out beer was set up near shrunken heads from Peru, while the wine bar was near cases filled with Samoan and Amazonian artifacts. In another room, where food for the guests was set up next to a model of the Alva, Willie K.'s 264-foot yacht, William J. Lindsay, presiding officer of the Suffolk County Legislature, called the museum a county treasure.
 ''The county has never put operational money into this place, and out of the county's $2.3 billion budget, this place needs less than a million to keep from closing,'' he said. ''It's going to cost as much to mothball this place as to keep open.''
 Mr. Lindsay said he would try to persuade the county legislature to pass a bill to provide the museum with $800,000 -- though it faces significant opposition. 
 Mr. Gittelman, who with his daughter Emily is finishing a biography of William K. Vanderbilt, was telling more stories about the mansion's owner. Willie K. himself was no stranger to financial hardship, having lost a fortune in the 1907 stock market crash, Mr. Gittelman said. After trying to sell his wife's jewels, he started various businesses, including selling vacuum cleaners, cleaning offices and storing jewels for theatergoers.
 At the museum, officials have cut hours, raised admission fees to $5 from $3 and are seeking corporate donations and state and federal grants. There are plans to add a gift shop, a new cafe and vending machines.
 Mr. Gittelman noted that other Vanderbilt mansions around the country have been preserved, and that he has tried reaching out to Vanderbilt descendants to bail out the museum, but was unsuccessful. 
 He said he had not spoken to Consuelo Vanderbilt Earl, the 105-year-old daughter of Willie K. Iris Vanderbilt Christ, a granddaughter, was on the museum's board, but she died in 2006.
 As for Gloria, probably the most famous living Vanderbilt, Mr. Gittelman shook his head, saying he thought she was too distant a relative to even try seeking a donation. 
 Asked how the mansion's builder would have handled the crisis, Mr. Gittelman said, ''Willie K. would probably have just decided he'd go sailing and worry about it when he got back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 24-room Spanish revival mansion, which overlooks Long Island Sound, was built in three stages, from 1910 to 1936, by William K. Vanderbilt II.
Willie K., as he was known, died in 1944. He left his estate to Suffolk County as a museum: not only the mansion, but various outbuildings, like this one.
To cover the operating costs, Willie K. left an endowment, which in recent years had grown to $12 million. Now it is a little over $8 million. Not enough.
 Signs of disrepair include cracked stucco. Museum officials have been looking for new sources of money.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDOWMENTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); FAMILY (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); GOLF (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



317 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: The Cities You Can't Fly To

BYLINE: By HILLARY CHURA

 BODY:
Santa Fe, N.M., lost its airline service a year ago, and its tourism-centered economy has definitely felt the pinch. ''Either people come through a different airport, or they plain don't come,'' said the airport's manager, Jim Montman.
 In Moses Lake, Wash., without an airline for two years, travelers have a choice of driving 180 miles to Seattle or 105 miles to Spokane -- assuming they can get through roads occasionally closed by snow. 
 Small cities in 25 states -- almost 100 communities in all -- have lost commercial air service in the last two years for a variety of reasons, among them airline mergers, high fuel costs, the expense of serving smaller markets and a reduction in government aid to airlines that serve small communities. 
 And many of those cities' economies are suffering. While it is difficult to figure out how much of the lost revenue in the small cities is tied to lost commercial air service and how much is the result of the country's overall economic downturn, it is clear that the loss of air service has hurt. In much of America, airlines represent more than just convenience. 
 When a city loses commercial air service -- finding itself hundreds of miles from the closest airport -- it gives up tourist dollars, airport revenue and income that otherwise would spread to Main Street. Because airplanes connect businesses with customers, partners, suppliers and consultants, remote communities without service are less likely to attract or retain businesses -- be they local entrepreneurs or offshoots of big corporations -- that view wasted time and wasted money with equal disdain.
 ''Air travel is the way business does business,'' said Michael Boggs, vice president of the air service group at the consultancy Mead & Hunt. ''If businesses in those communities have to have air service, they're probably going to move away. They could drive to airports to get service. But ultimately if a business relies on air service, it's going to have to relocate at some point.''
 Loss of air service may also drive away homegrown talent, accelerating the marginalization of remote areas.
 ''Rail service doesn't go there,'' said Greg Carboy, an aviation lawyer in Dallas. ''Bus service doesn't. Now people have to drive hundreds of miles to get there. The business person is not going to be rushing out to that community, because they don't have the ability to get there. The Internet isn't the be-all and end-all.'' 
 While small markets represent more than 80 percent of air fields in the continental United States, they transport fewer than 11 percent of passengers, according to Mr. Boggs. So as airlines look to cut costs, it makes business sense for them to focus on larger markets and longer trips and to cut routes. 
 ''As airlines try to make themselves more efficient, they've made it more inefficient for us,'' said Dev O'Reilly, president and chief executive of RollMaster Software in Lynn Haven, Fla. ''We're in a service business. You call, you write, but there is nothing like face to face.''
 The service cuts have generally hit business travelers harder than leisure travelers, because business travelers usually want the quickest, most convenient way to get to their destination. Vacationers, on the other hand, will drive several hours to save money.
 The long-term effect on a community is hard to predict, because losses like this have not been common before this recession. Ultimately, analysts said, they expect some small communities to get air service back a year or two after the economy rebounds -- but at higher fares and with fewer flights.
 ''There is an immediate effect on tourism but a longer-term economic effect,'' said Bjorn Hanson, associate professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. ''They never reach the long-term growth trend that would've been achieved without the reduction in air capacity. Typically the bar is reset at a lower level.''
 Two hours from Santa Barbara and four from Los Angeles, San Luis Obispo, Calif., lost some, but not all, air service in November.
 ''We could not be a 21st-century community and do all the things we want to do in high tech and communications, in food safety and computers and software, if we didn't have air service,'' said David E. Garth, president and chief executive of the San Luis Obispo Chamber of Commerce.
 In New Mexico, the Santa Fe Municipal Airport contributed an estimated $54 million a year to the city when it had commercial air service, said Mr. Montman, the airport's manager. Without it, he said, ''Some will use Albuquerque as their base, get their cars in Albuquerque, stay in hotels in Albuquerque,'' 63 miles away. ''Everyone who does, that means lost revenue for Santa Fe,'' he added. 
 The effect extends beyond missed revenue. Scott Berman, a hospitality analyst and principal at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Miami, said that when banks considered loans in certain areas, they examined commercial air service. If an airline has withdrawn or reduced capacity, he said, it can raise questions about business prospects.
 Daniel Petree, dean of the College of Business at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, an aviation and aerospace university in Daytona Beach, Fla., says that when a community loses commercial air service, it loses bragging rights as a convenient business base.
 Airports without commercial service do not necessarily close. They just rely more heavily on cargo, corporate aviation, flight training and recreational flights -- sometimes making up lost revenue in the process. 
 Sometimes those without service can lure it back. Moses Lake, for instance, is trying to persuade SkyWest Airlines to come in. 
 While local officials say Moses Lake is growing because of low energy costs that are attractive to manufacturers, affordable housing and a good work force, they acknowledge that lack of air service is a liability.
 ''It gets frustrating to operate a business because you don't know if you can have your meeting or not,'' said Craig Baldwin, executive manager for the port of Moses Lake. 
 For companies, the isolation represents a significant cost of doing business. ''People in large cities don't understand how dependent rural communities are,'' said Lon Topaz, the energy resources manager at REC Silicon in Moses Lake, whose parent company, REC Group, is based in Oslo. ''It's worth a bundle to us to have air service back.''
 When executives from headquarters in Norway visit, Mr. Topaz added, ''Those last couple of hundred miles from Seattle take almost as long to get here as from Oslo.'' 
 Hot Springs, Ark., has been without a commercial airline since May 2008. The nearest airport is in Little Rock, about 55 miles away. Jan Swanner, who owns the Flower Shoppe and Wedding Center in Hot Springs, said her business was off 20 percent from a year earlier, in part because of the economy but also because of the lack of flights. She once had clients from California, Florida and the Northeast, she said. Now customers are from nearby states, like Missouri, Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma, all within driving distance.
 ''Hot Springs is a resort town, and without a commercial airline, we are really hurting as a community,'' Ms. Swanner said. ''Our clients are driving in, or they're not coming at all. They're going somewhere else.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The airport in Moses Lake, Wash., lost commercial service two years ago, so flyers' closest options are Seattle or Spokane.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER YATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 No commercial flights have flown in Santa Fe, N.M., for a year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); AIR SERVICE (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TOURISM (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MERGERS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); RELOCATIONS (61%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (60%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



318 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Giants Liven Up Final Practice Before Playoff Game

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- Early in practice Friday morning at Giants Stadium, the defensive linemen gathered in a shady corner for drills near a newly mounted metal sign that said ''NFL Playoffs.''
Everything was quiet -- too quiet. Suddenly, there came the rattling sound of a dozen big fists pounding the metal sign as if it were a punching bag.
''We just like making a loud noise,'' said Justin Tuck, a defensive end. ''It was cold outside and guys were kind of down at first. So we just wanted to hype it up and get some spirit going.'' 
This was the Giants' last long workout before they begin their defense of their Super Bowl title on Sunday by hosting Philadelphia in an N.F.C. divisional playoff game. The Giants do not usually practice on the main field, but Coach Tom Coughlin wanted his players to have a feel for the weather with cold and snow in the weekend forecast. Over all, the mood seemed chipper, the drills as crisp as the air.
As the team began work, a helicopter hovered over the stadium, circling a little, dipping and twisting. Antonio Pierce, the veteran linebacker, took notice.
''Who was that, was that Andy Reid again?'' Pierce said, referring to the Eagles' coach.
COUGHLIN PICKS A SLOGAN Tom Coughlin gave his players T-shirts this week bearing the message ''Cut It Off.'' It is a reference to a scene in the adventure movie ''Men of Honor'' in which a hero has to have his leg amputated. Coughlin said the thought was to motivate players to do whatever is needed to succeed.
TUCK WANTS TO PLAY Justin Tuck said he would play on Sunday against the Eagles, but said that his injured lower right leg had not healed.
''It would be an all-perfect world if I could be healthy, but I'm not,'' Tuck said. ''I'm playing Sunday and that's all that matters. Obviously, I'm not injured. Obviously, I'm banged up. I'm looking forward to the opportunity.''
Defensive tackle Fred Robbins, who missed the final regular-season game with a sore shoulder, is expected to play. Zak DeOssie (sore back), a backup linebacker and punt snapper, was listed as probable. Offensive tackle Jon Runyan of the Eagles was listed as questionable and did not practice on Friday. Running back Brian Westbrook was listed as probable.
GETTING READY FOR SNOW Jim Minish, executive vice president for facilities of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, said Friday that about 300 snow-shovelers would report to Giants Stadium beginning at 4 p.m. Saturday to clear seats. While the Giants practiced Friday, stadium workers tossed salt on the concrete steps and aisles.
NO DECISION ON KICKER After practice Friday, Lawrence Tynes was asked if he would share kicking duties with John Carney. Because Carney's kickoffs have been growing shorter, Coach Tom Coughlin has considered using Tynes for kickoffs and long field goals and Carney for extra points and short field goals.
''I would love to know today, but I won't know until 10:30 on Sunday,'' Tynes said. ''I would like to contribute, even if it's just kicking off.'' After adding that he did not think he would play, Tynes said: ''I thought there would be some indicators and there really hasn't been. I'm not anticipating it. If I am told I'm playing, I'm 100 percent healthy.''
After recovering from a preseason knee injury shortly before midseason, Tynes dressed for only two games, handling just kickoffs in one and both kickoffs and placekicks in the other.
Tynes and Carney talked Friday about how cold weather affected a kicked ball. Referring to the tricky winter wind patterns of Giants Stadium, Carney said: ''It was different today than it was yesterday. Almost the opposite.''
Tynes said cold weather shortened kickoffs by seven to eight yards. ''It also affects hang time,'' he said. ''The ball is not going to compress off your foot like it would if it's warm.''
SOME TURNED DOWN TICKETS Pat Hanlon, the Giants' vice-president for communications, said a few thousand tickets for Sunday's game were turned down by season-ticket holders who had the right to buy them. Instead, they were sold to fans on the waiting list for season tickets. When asked whether this was a sign of declining economic conditions, Hanlon said it was not unusual for tickets to be sold that way for a playoff game.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS (89%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (54%)

PERSON: JON RUNYAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



319 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants in Charter Schools Seeking the Best of Two Worlds

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

 BODY:
MINNEAPOLIS -- Fartun Warsame, a Somali immigrant, thought she was being a good mother when she transferred her five boys to a top elementary school in an affluent Minneapolis suburb. Besides its academic advantages, the school was close to her job as an ultrasound technician, so if the teachers called, she could get there right away.
''Immediately they changed,'' Ms. Warsame said of her sons. ''They wanted to wear shorts. They'd say, 'Buy me this.' I said, 'Where did you guys get this idea you can control me?' ''
Her sons informed her that this was the way things were in America. But not in this Somali mother's house. She soon moved them back to the city, to the International Elementary School, a charter school of about 560 pupils in downtown Minneapolis founded by leaders of the city's large East African community. The extra commuting time was worth the return to the old order: five well-behaved sons, and one all-powerful mother. 
Charter schools, which are publicly financed but independently run, were conceived as a way to improve academic performance. But for immigrant families, they have also become havens where their children are shielded from the American youth culture that pervades large district schools.
The curriculum at the Twin Cities International Elementary School, and at its partner middle school and high school, is similar to that of other public schools with high academic goals. But at Twin Cities International the girls say they can freely wear head scarves without being teased, the lunchroom serves food that meets the dietary requirements of Muslims, and in every classroom there are East African teaching assistants who understand the needs of students who may have spent years in refugee camps. Twin Cities International students are from Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia and Sudan, with a small population from the Middle East.
Amid the wave of immigration that has been reshaping Minnesota for more than three decades, the International schools are among 30 of the state's 138 charter schools that are focused mostly on students from specific immigrant or ethnic groups. To visit a half-dozen of these schools, to listen to teachers, administrators and parents -- Somali immigrants who are relatively new to Minnesota, as well as the Hmong and Latinos who have been in the state for decades -- is to understand that Ms. Warsame's high educational aspirations for her children, and her fears, are universal.
''The good news is that immigrant kids are learning English better and faster than ever before in U.S. history,'' said Marcelo M. Suarez-Orozco, the co-director of immigration studies at New York University and co-author of ''Learning a New Land -- Immigrant Students in American Society'' (Harvard Press, 2008). ''But they're assimilating to a society that parents see as very threatening and frightening. It's anti-authority, anti-studying. It's materialistic.''
Some critics argue that these kinds of charter schools are contributing to a growing re-segregation of public education, and that they run counter to the long-held idea of public schools as the primary institution of the so-called ''melting pot,'' the engine that forges a common American identity among immigrants from many countries.
''One of the primary reasons that American society supports public schools is to give everyone a solid civic education,'' said Diane Ravitch, an education historian, ''the sort of education that comes from learning together with others from different backgrounds.''
But Dr. Suarez-Orozco says the reality is that most new immigrants become isolated in public schools, and that large numbers of them become alienated over time and fail to graduate.
A place like Minnesota, with its strong charter-school movement, offers immigrant parents, who have long been conflicted about their children becoming Americanized, a strong voice in their children's education, Dr. Suarez-Orozco said, and shows their eagerness to participate in democracy.
''What the parents are saying,'' he said, ''is, We want our children to assimilate, we want them to acculturate, but we want to be proactively engaged in shaping that process.''
Ali Somo, a 70-year-old father of three children at the International Schools, put it this way: ''We bring our children here because we want them close to us so they don't get lost.''
It was a weekday morning, but Mr. Somo and Ms. Warsame and a group of other parents, some holding down double shifts as cabdrivers, hotel housekeepers, and parking lot attendants, were squeezing in a meeting in the school library, with its shelves lined with ''Huckleberry Finn,'' ''The Red Badge of Courage,'' ''Little House on the Prairie'' and other American classics.
Getting lost in America, Mr. Somo explained, means losing your culture, your language, your identity. It means acting like the teenagers the parents see on the street -- wearing baggy jeans, smoking, using drugs, disrespecting elders.
''I have been in America, and I have observed,'' Mr. Somo testified. ''I have seen children with their pants falling off. I have seen them doing drugs.''
The parents around him nodded. Another father, Jelil Abdella, talked about how it saddened him that his two grown children, who had attended large district schools, did not know how to speak Somali. ''They're neither American, nor Somali,'' Mr. Abdella said.
As a newcomer, he said, he was too busy going to school and earning a living -- driving a taxi, cleaning floors, working in a factory, picking blueberries -- to supervise their educations closely.
''I don't want to make the same mistake with my younger children,'' he said. ''I want them to keep the good things we used to have back home -- respecting their parents, helping each other, respecting their elders.''
Another father, Mahamaud Wardere, said: ''It is important that they all know they're American. It is equally important that they know they're Somali.''
It is this dual identity that the International Schools work to encourage. There are lessons in snowshoeing and baseball, and field trips to the Mall of America, where instead of shopping, the students participate in another American ritual, the charity fund-raising walk. There are also teen-agers complaining that their parents worry too much.
''I can at least account for more than 200 lectures I've had from my mom and dad about American culture here,'' said Omar Ahmed, a 14-year-old eighth grader. ''My dad always says, 'Back in Somalia, when I was 14, I could see myself running my own business, having my own children. You're 14, you can't get your studies done.' ''
''Every time my mom sees something bad about teens in the news,'' Omar said, ''there's another lecture on that subject.''
Perhaps nothing more vividly demonstrated the students' enthusiasm for American democracy than a debate this fall in Elizabeth Veldman's eighth-grade social studies class about the presidential race. The two teams of students had spent days preparing.
''Look at our history -- look at what happened with the Vietnam War,'' said Yaqub Ali, 14, a fervent supporter of Senator John McCain who arrived five years ago from a refugee camp in Kenya, knowing little English, and who is now fluent. ''Do you want to lose a war?''
''Sit down, Yaqub!'' commanded Ridwa Yakob, who describes herself as ''a girl who loves to talk.'' She argued that Senator Barack Obama would fix everything from education to the economy.
Yaqub, wearing a dark suit for the occasion, rose again. ''John McCain is old,'' he said. ''It is better to be old.''
At the International school, where elders are revered, even Ridwa was silenced.
At their meeting, the parents talked of the importance of speaking English at school -- and Somali or Oromo at home. At other charter schools, Hmong refugee and Latino parents expressed the same wish, the difference being that they want their children to speak Hmong, or Spanish, at home, the other difference being that many of their children are already so Americanized that they are learning their parents' languages in school.
''The other day a spider fell from the roof and my son picked it up,'' Mr. Somo said, referring to his 13-year-old, Hussein. ''What do you call it in English, I asked him. He told me. How to say it in Oromo -- I told him myself. How to say it in Arabic and Somali -- he learned it himself. He was able to say the word for ''spider'' in four languages.''
With that kind of linguistic talent, Mr. Somo said of his son, ''he can work for America anywhere in the world.''
Dr. Suarez-Orozco said: ''What these parents are doing, in taking ownership of their children's schools, is as American as apple pie. They're doing what soccer moms and dads in Lexington, Mass., and Concord and Cambridge do day in and day out. They're modeling for kids the story of acculturation and how it works.''
Correction: January 14, 2009, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about immigrant families who choose charter schools as a way to shield their children from the American youth culture misstated the age of Yaqub Ali, an eighth grader in Minneapolis, and referred incorrectly to his arrival in the United States. He is 14, not 13, and he arrived five years ago, not four.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pupils at the Twin Cities International Elementary School, a charter school in Minneapolis that serves East African immigrants.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
A charter school for East African immigrants in Minneapolis is where girls, here in a physical education class, say they can wear head scarves without being teased.
 The Hmong Academy in St. Paul serves another large population. Parents say the charter schools shield their children from aspects of American youth culture that clash with their traditions.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); CITIES (88%); CURRICULA (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); HISTORY (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); ETHNICITY (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (93%); SUDAN (79%); KENYA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



320 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Debt Could Crush G.M.'s Best Efforts

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
The government's rescue package for General Motors comes with some ugly conditions attached for debt holders, union members and the company itself. Chief among these is a requirement that the automaker demonstrate a plan for achieving a positive net present value. Even with deep cost cuts, debt restructuring and union concessions, a back-of-the-envelope calculation suggests this is out of reach.
Any calculation about G.M.'s worth must start with its debt-laden balance sheet. In return for handing over up to $13.4 billion in emergency loans, the Treasury is calling for G.M. to wipe out two-thirds of its unsecured debt by swapping it for equity. Assuming lenders agree -- and this is a gargantuan task in its own right -- that would leave G.M. with $12 billion of unsecured and $6 billion in secured debt. Include the government handout and the total jumps to $31.4 billion. 
Add to that G.M.'s onerous legacy obligations. First, there are health care costs. The Motown manufacturer has done a good job reducing these in the last couple of years. But it still has to pay $10 billion in cash into the independent fund for United Automobile Workers members' benefits. And the net unfinanced health care liabilities for non-U.A.W. workers currently stands at $8 billion, though that's expected to drop as a result of cutbacks announced last summer.
Then there are G.M.'s pension benefits. For simplicity's sake, let's just concentrate on the plan for United States workers. That was fully financed at the end of 2007, but it would be astounding if last year's market turmoil in virtually every asset class did not send it into the red. Joshua Rauh, a professor at the University of Chicago, estimates G.M.'s plan may be underfinanced to the tune of $23 billion.
That may be too pessimistic, but let's assume the figure is around $10 billion. Because of some tax credits that the company has stored up for previous losses, G.M. doesn't have to cover a shortfall imminently. But add it to the rest and the sum of G.M.'s liabilities hits almost $60 billion.
What does G.M. have on the asset side of its ledger to offset these liabilities? It will have some $15 billion in cash after the government injection, though its history suggests it could burn through this swiftly. Its stake in lender GMAC might be worth, at best, its book value of $5 billion. Stakes in Asian partners look to be worth another $5 billion. Add these up and G.M.'s car unit must be worth at least $35 billion to meet the government's stipulation that it have a positive net present value.
Can it get there? Analysts estimate G.M. should have car sales of around $135 billion this year. While down from the $150 billion or so the company should have tallied last year, it may also be optimistic given the way the United States economy is contracting and consumers are pulling back.
Well-run car companies, like Renault, tend to have low profit margins -- indeed, 3 percent constitutes a decent showing in the business. It's possible that G.M. could achieve something like this, but it won't be easy given all the disruption that may result from negotiations with workers, suppliers and dealers as it rushes to meet other requirements attached to the government's loans.
Still, if one takes this relatively charitable view of G.M.'s sales and earnings power, it implies about $4 billion in operating earnings. Once taxed and put on a multiple of 10 -- which is basically an assumption that the income stream neither grows nor shrinks over time -- G.M.'s car business would be worth about $28 billion.
That's not quite enough to meet the requirement that G.M. achieve a positive net present value, despite hard concessions by all its stakeholders and a dollop of government largess. Of course, there's always the chance that pension and health care costs will be less onerous. Maybe its pension fund managers did do better than the market -- and 90 percent of the investment management industry.
And the company will no doubt unveil all sorts of other valuation metrics and optimistic projections about cash flows to show the company has positive value. But by this back-of-the-envelope calculation, even tough action may not persuade the government that G.M. is sound enough to escape bankruptcy.
ROBERT CYRAN
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An autoworker last month near the Dallas office of Republican Senator John Cornyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN CORNYN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



321 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: With Senate Hearing, Preparing for Change at Top of Labor Dept. Departing Chief Fends Off Critics

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Secretary of Labor Elaine L. Chao, the only member of President Bush's cabinet to serve a full eight years, has heard a flood of criticisms that her department favored business and was lax on enforcement and worker safety.
But in an interview, Ms. Chao laid into her critics, asserting that the Bush Labor Department deserved to be praised, not damned. To make her case, she noted that occupational fatalities fell to a record low last year, as did mining fatalities. Moreover, the rate of workplace injuries has declined to record lows, she said, while the department has helped workers win a record amount of back pay for minimum wage and overtime violations. 
All this is the result of smart enforcement, Ms. Chao asserted, saying that her critics, usually from labor unions, were often unfair and inflammatory.
''I think they've been partisan,'' she said on Thursday. ''This department handles some of the most difficult issues, some of the most partisan issues, because there really are different world views on the work force.''
Many critics see things differently.
''We don't think the secretary serves the interests of workers very effectively,'' said Bill Samuel, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s director of government affairs. ''There have been virtually no new regulations on workplace hazards except those required by the courts. And she seemed to take the side of employers more than workers when there were conflicts.''
Ms. Chao said unions had misunderstood her enforcement strategy, which she calls ''compliance assistance'' and which involves cooperating with companies.
''We have many rules and regulations that can be sometimes confusing and complicated,'' she said. ''By reaching out to the employer community and educating them on what their responsibilities and obligations are to their work force, that, along, with strong enforcement, is the best way to protect workers.''
Ms. Chao, who is married to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said the department had accomplished much during her tenure. It has updated regulations on overtime, pensions and the Family and Medical Leave Act, especially to help families that have to care for wounded veterans. It has collected $1.4 billion in back wages for workers, and gotten union officials to reimburse tens of millions of dollars in embezzled and misspent money. She also said her department had worked hard to improve job training, for instance, expanding the role of community colleges in teaching job skills.
''This administration has accomplished a great deal at the Department of Labor to benefit America's labor force,'' she said. ''I'm the first secretary of labor in the 21st century, and the competitiveness of the American work force and the modernization of decades-old regulations have been among our top priorities.''
Ms. Chao's critics said occupational deaths and injuries had declined as a result of the economy's shifting to services from manufacturing. They say her department greatly increased mining enforcement and fines only after the Sago and Crandall Canyon mine disasters. And critics say the record collection of back wages is a result of companies' rushing to settle with her department to reduce the likelihood of facing large amounts of damages awarded by juries in private lawsuits.
''It feels like when my kids boast I'm getting a 'C' rather than a 'D,' '' said Kim Bobo, executive director of Interfaith Worker Justice, a group of religious and labor leaders that seeks to help low-wage workers. ''What they've done is a drop in the bucket compared to the size of the problem of wage theft.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elaine Chao said unions had misunderstood her strategies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); BACK PAY (89%); OVERTIME (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); MINE WORKERS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (72%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (72%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%)

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



322 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS NATIONAL DAY OF SERVICE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Matchmaking for Good Deeds

BYLINE: By JANIE LORBER

 BODY:
Apartment hunters have Craigslist. Singles have eHarmony. And now, Americans looking for a way to give back to their communities have an online matchmaking service of their own. 
The site, USAService.org, set up by the Presidential Inaugural Committee, provides a one-stop shopping guide for the national day of service Mr. Obama has scheduled for Jan. 19, the day before Mr. Obama's inauguration as president.
Volunteers and nonprofit organizations can turn to the Web site to organize events, recruit participants and blog about their experiences.
Already, 52 events have been organized within five miles of the White House on Jan. 19, according to the Web site, which allows users to search by ZIP code -- 20500 in this case -- date and type of service.
Mr. Obama, Joseph R. Biden Jr. and their families might even show up at some of those events, which include blood drives, an interfaith ecology bike tour and other service activities.
At a news conference Friday, former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, above, a co-chairman of the inauguration committee, said he hoped that, despite the stress created by the nation's economic crisis, the Jan. 19 initiative ''will capture the imagination of the American people just as President-elect Obama and Vice President-elect Biden have captured the imagination of the American people.''JANIE LORBER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE DATING SERVICES (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); DATING SERVICES (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); WEB SITES (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (67%); BLOOD DONATIONS (53%); RELIGION (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOE BIDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



323 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LAS VEGAS JOURNAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Money for a Mob Museum. Got a Problem?

BYLINE: By STEVE FRIESS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
After taking a hail of bipartisan bullets in recent days over the suggestion that a federal stimulus package should help pay for a proposed $50 million museum here on the history of organized crime, the project's godfathers are returning fire, complaining that Washington pols are scapegoating the museum and the city. 
 The planned Las Vegas Museum of Organized Crime and Law Enforcement, a k a ''the Mob Museum'' on its own Web site, is to include interactive exhibits where visitors can snap their mug shots, stand in police lineups and wiretap one another. Such a center, Mayor Oscar B. Goodman said in an interview Thursday, is ''absolutely falling within the four corners of what President-elect Obama is trying to achieve.'' 
 ''This is a project where all the plans are in place and we can start it within 30 days,'' said Mr. Goodman, a former criminal defense lawyer who represented several Mafia figures in the 1970s and 1980s.
 Citing studies showing that 250,000 tourists a year would visit the attraction and noting that tourism is to Las Vegas what car sales are (or were) to Detroit, the mayor continued: ''I don't know why Mitch McConnell would take on this project. It's a great project.''
 Senator Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican and the minority leader, attacked the museum this week as a kind of localized earmark project that does not belong in legislation Congress passes to jumpstart the flailing economy.
 Jon Summers, a spokesman for Senator Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat and the majority leader, said Mr. McConnell's statements were ''moot because Senator Reid has been clear that there will be no earmarks'' in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan, as President-elect Barack Obama calls it. Instead, Mr. Summers said, the money is likely to go to federal agencies for disbursement based on criteria not yet decided.
 Slated to open in 2010, the museum would occupy the entire 42,000 square feet of a three-story neoclassical building that was the first federal courthouse in Clark County and one of the sites of the 1950 hearings into organized crime led by Senator Estes Kefauver, Democrat of Tennessee.
 The creative director of the planned museum, Dennis Barrie, who also curated the International Spy Museum in Washington and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland, said the structure was the second-oldest in Las Vegas and needed a $26 million restoration. 
 So far, $15 million has been raised, including about $3.6 million in federal grants and a nearly equal amount in state and local money, since 2001. A full-throttle fund-raising effort is to begin later this year. 
 The federal government deeded the building to the city for $1 in 2000 with the stipulation that it be put to a cultural use. Restoration has begun.
 ''I'm sure it's good fodder for politicians,'' Mr. Barrie said, ''but the interesting thing about the mob museum is that it's a real look at the history of organized crime in America that goes back to the late 19th and early 20th centuries when the mob came out of the various ghettos and how it influenced America. A lot of people, what they know about the topic is what they learned from Hollywood.''
 That said, Tony Soprano and Michael Corleone would get their due in a room about the Mafia's influence on popular culture, and visitors would be exposed to unvarnished tales of the exploits of law-enforcement and mob figures, said Ellen Knowlton, a retired special agent in charge for the Federal Bureau of Investigation who is the museum's chairwoman. 
 ''We're trying to make sure this project is as accurate as possible,'' Ms. Knowlton said, ''so there are people involved who have had organized crime in their life or family. I don't want to go beyond that to say who is participating. But it's interesting that a number of people want their family's side of the story told accurately.''
 Even within Las Vegas, though, the project is controversial. The mayor acknowledged that some Italian-Americans were so alarmed when he first hit upon the idea in 2002 that he backed off quickly, joking that he had actually proposed a ''mop museum.'' 
 The F.B.I. supports the museum and has agreed to lend records and other artifacts to be exhibited. But among those opposed is a former federal prosecutor, Donald Campbell, who had a hand in breaking the mob's hold on Las Vegas in the 1980s. 
 ''I don't think we should ever romanticize a criminal activity,'' Mr. Campbell said.
 A spokesman for Senator McConnell, Don Stewart, said the senator was not attacking the idea of the museum so much as Mayor Goodman's inclusion of it on the list of projects he would jumpstart with stimulus money. 
 ''The parameters for this bill need to be, does it create jobs, is it a waste of the taxpayers' dollars, is it something that will help us long-term, not just a temporary thing, '' Mr. Stewart said. 
 Supporters say the museum will do just what the bill intends. 
 ''This project exactly meets the criteria,'' said Alan Feldman, a museum board member and senior vice president of the casino giant MGM Mirage, the state's largest private employer. ''It is a construction project. It's a legacy project; it's a project that stimulates the economy by putting a wonderful tourist attraction downtown.'' 
 Either way, Mr. Goodman is clearly enjoying the national attention the museum financing plan has prompted. ''This is $1 million worth of publicity for us,'' he said. ''I love it. Just spell my name right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Estes Kefauver held an organized-crime hearing in the mob museum site.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HAROLD P. MATOSIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 A proposed exhibit for the museum would trace popular depictions of the mob.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GALLAGHER AND ASSOCIATES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ORGANIZED CRIME (91%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); WIRETAPPING (55%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (51%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (69%); HARRY REID (56%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



324 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Biggest Challenge

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Another month, another half-million Americans out of work. The ranks of the unemployed have now stretched beyond 11 million, and millions more are underemployed -- working part time, for example, because they can't find full-time jobs.
 As bad as this sounds, the reality confronting working men and women is actually significantly worse. Some 2.6 million jobs have been lost since December 2007, and as the Economic Policy Institute tells us: 
 ''Just to keep up with the ever-expanding labor force, the economy would have needed to create 1.5 million jobs over the last 12 months. This means that the 2.6 million jobs lost leaves us over 4 million jobs short of what the economy required to provide employment for the American work force.''
 We're in employment quicksand. The official unemployment rate (a notoriously rosy statistic) is 7.2 percent. But more than one in every eight workers in America is jobless or underemployed. That's 21 million people. And it's not even counting the so-called discouraged workers, who have given up looking for a job.
 More than a million jobs were lost in November and December, and millions more are projected to vanish this year. When the November job losses were announced, David Leonhardt wrote in The Times's blog, Economix:
 ''The share of all men ages 16 and over who are working is now at its lowest level since the government began keeping statistics in the 1940s. The share of women with jobs has fallen almost two percentage points from the peak it reached in 2000. At no other point in the past 50 years has the share of employed women fallen so much from its peak.'' 
 This is an emergency. There is one overriding mission for the incoming Obama administration when it comes to dealing with the economy, and that's putting Americans back to work. Forget the G.O.P.'s mania for tax cuts. Forget, for the time being (but not forever), the ballooning budget deficits. Forget the feel-good but doomed-to-fail effort to play nice-nice with the rabid partisans of the right who were the ones most responsible for ruining the economy in the first place.
 Put the people back to work!
 To do that, Democrats will have to overcome their natural timidity. They will have to fend off the Republican opposition in Congress and set in motion an enormous surge of public spending aimed at creating jobs, jobs, jobs.
 Each new surge of job losses is an additional violent assault on the already profoundly damaged economy. Idle workers do not pay taxes and that ratchets up budget deficits at the federal, state and local levels. They draw down unemployment benefits and further strain the Medicaid rolls. In many cases, they are forced to turn to food stamps for their families' daily bread. And, of course, they stop purchasing cars and homes, goods and services.
 The economy will not be saved by putting a pitiful $500 into the hands of the average taxpayer. And it won't be saved by gift-wrapped concessions to the G.O.P. in the form of business tax cuts that the president-elect is said to be considering.
 With credit tight, savings depleted, the stock market in the tank and home prices in a state of collapse, the only way to get real money into the hands of ordinary Americans (and thus back into the economy) is through employment. The way to truly stimulate the economy and save the jobs of anxiety-ridden workers who are still employed is to get the unemployed back to work as soon as possible.
 And the way to create jobs is through infrastructure investments (building and repairing roads, bridges, tunnels and water and sewer systems); and by investing in 21st-century clean energy initiatives, in public transportation systems, and in school construction; and by providing access to health care for the millions who don't have it.
 In other words, by investing in the people and the enormous productive capacity of the United States.
 Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa was blunt this week after he and other Senate Democrats met with Obama aides to discuss the president-elect's stimulus package. ''There is only one thing we have got to do in the stimulus, and that is how can we create jobs,'' he said.
 Referring to Mr. Obama's national economic adviser, Lawrence Summers, Mr. Harkin added: ''I am a little concerned by the way that Mr. Summers and others are going at this in that, to me, it still looks like a little more of this trickle down. If we just put it in at the top, it's going to trickle down.''
 Been there. Done that. Didn't work.
 The madness of trickle down and its corollaries ruined the economy and millions of Americans with it. President-elect Obama ran to the mantra of change. One hopes he is not too timid to deliver. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WOMEN (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); STATISTICS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TAX LAW (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); MEDICAID (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



325 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Jump-Start Economy With No Instruction Manual

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The fresh evidence on Friday of the economy's downward spiral focused even more attention on two questions: Is the stimulus package being pushed by President-elect Barack Obama big enough? And will the component parts being assembled by Congress provide the most bang for the buck?
With the Federal Reserve having just about reached the limit of how much it can help the economy with cuts in the interest rate, Washington's ability to end or at least limit the recession depends in large part on the effectiveness of the big package of additional spending and tax cuts that Mr. Obama has made the centerpiece of his agenda.
And with the economy facing what now seems sure to be the sharpest downturn since the 1930s, the financial system balky and the government facing towering budget deficits, economists and policy makers acknowledge that there is no playbook. 
''We have very few good examples to guide us,'' said William G. Gale, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, the liberal-leaning research organization. ''I don't know of any convincing evidence that what has been proposed is going to be enough.''
In part because Mr. Obama wants and needs bipartisan support, the package is being shaped by political as well as economic imperatives, complicating the process by putting competing ideological approaches into the mix.
It includes $300 billion in temporary tax cuts for individuals and businesses, in part to attract Republican support. It includes a big expansion of safety-net programs like unemployment insurance, which Democrats say makes both economic and social sense. It includes more money for highways, schools and other public infrastructure; more money for ''green'' energy projects; and more money to help state governments pay for health care and education.
Republicans, as always, are advocating for more and broader tax cuts. But the evidence is ambiguous about whether tax cuts will really spur economic activity at a time when consumers and businesses alike are frozen in fear and reluctant to let go of their money.
The risk is that Mr. Obama and the Congress will weigh down their effort with measures that cost many billions of dollars but may not have much impact on economic activity.
Tax breaks, for example, usually produce less than $1 of stimulus for every dollar they cost, economists say. Spending on public construction projects, like highways and bridges, produces the most economic activity -- but there is a limit to how many projects are ''shovel-ready,'' and even those take time to generate jobs and ripple through the economy.
Christina Romer, whom Mr. Obama has designated to be his chief economist, concluded in research she helped write in 1994 that interest-rate policy is the most powerful force in economic recoveries and that fiscal stimulus generally acts too slowly to be of much help in pulling the economy out of recessions, though associates said she now supports a big stimulus package if policy makers roll it out early enough in the recession.
The goal behind all those ideas is to jump-start economic activity by getting as much money as possible as quickly as possible into the hands of consumers and businesses, trying to make up for the falling demand in the private sector that is leading to higher unemployment. And although the package includes a big dose of tax cuts, it represents a big departure from President Bush's playbook by relying heavily on direct government spending.
''This is not an intellectual exercise, and there's no pride of authorship,'' Mr. Obama told a news conference in Washington on Friday. ''If members of Congress have good ideas, if they can identify a project for me that will create jobs in an efficient way -- that does not hamper our ability to, over the long term, get control of our deficit; that is good for the economy -- then I'm going to accept it.''
Mr. Obama's aides said he did not intend to unveil a detailed formal proposal but rather to allow Congress to fill in the outline that he has proposed.
Given the recent scale of the downturn -- the nation lost 1.5 million jobs in the last three months of 2008, and economic output during those months shrank by 6 percent compared with same period in 2007 -- economists were highly uncertain about whether the economic plan would provide enough firepower.
Adam Posen, the deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, said Mr. Obama's plan could provide just the right boost -- if it was carried out properly.
But as the Federal Reserve has been learning for months now, the biggest obstacle to economic activity right now is not a shortage of money. The real obstacle is pervasive fear, which has made banks reluctant to lend and companies reluctant to invest in expansion.
Alan J. Auerbach, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, said the overall scale of the program looked ''reasonable'' at $800 billion over two years.
''It's much bigger than anything that's been tried in my lifetime, but this is scarier than anything we've seen in my lifetime,'' Professor Auerbach said.
Left to their own devices, many Congressional Democrats would prefer to focus almost entirely on spending projects and avoid tax incentives.
''One thing we learned from the Depression is marginal, incentive changes don't work very well when the economy is falling away from you very rapidly,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''And that's what's occurring here.''
But Republicans have been adamant about the need for tax breaks, and Mr. Obama has made it clear he would like to bring as many members on board as possible.
Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, said in an interview, ''I really do believe that if you combine the evidence of history along with the psychological concerns about making investments in the economy today, the better bang for your buck is lower taxes that are certain and permanent and lasting.''
The Democratic plan would direct much of the stimulus money to low-income and middle-income families. That reflects both traditional Democratic concerns about helping lower-income households, as well as the view of economists who say that people with lower incomes are more likely to spend rather than save any money they receive from the government.
Mark M. Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, a forecasting firm, told a forum of House Democrats this week that the ''bang for the buck'' -- the additional economic activity generated by each dollar of fiscal stimulus -- was highest for increases in food and unemployment benefits. Each dollar of additional money for food stamps yields $1.73 in additional economic activity, Mr. Zandi estimated, and each extra dollar in unemployment benefits yields about $1.63.
By contrast, Mr. Zandi estimated, most tax cuts produce less than a dollar for each dollar of stimulus, especially if the tax cuts are temporary, because people save at least some of their extra money.
One of the few tax cuts that economists say can generate a positive bang for the buck is a reduction in payroll taxes for Social Security and Medicare.
Mr. Obama wants to offer a tax credit of $500 for individuals, and up to $1,000 for families, which they would receive through a temporary reduction in payroll tax withholdings. The idea, known as the Making Work Pay credit, was part of Mr. Obama's economic platform during the presidential campaign. As originally envisioned, it would have been available to households with annual incomes as high as $200,000.
But economists said the tax credit could have drawbacks as an economic stimulus measure, mainly because people usually save part of the money or use it to pay down debt. That makes good sense from an individual's standpoint but does nothing to increase economic activity.
Joel Slemrod, a professor of tax policy at the University of Michigan, said, ''The research I've done on the 2001 and 2008 tax rebates suggests that the proportion of the rebates that went to spending was rather small, about one-third.''
After Congress approved Mr. Bush's tax rebate to individuals and families last spring, economic activity jumped fleetingly during the summer, and then stalled out again in the fall.
Some Democratic officials were also skeptical.
''It's not that rebates don't work under normal conditions,'' said one senior Democratic aide in the Senate. ''It's that current conditions are not normal and are not favorable to rebates or broad tax relief.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama on Friday in Washington. Mr. Obama's stimulus package is being shaped by political as well as economic imperatives.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); JOB CREATION (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CHRISTINA ROMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



326 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: With Senate Hearing, Preparing for Change at Top of Labor Dept Obama Choice Receives a Mostly Polite Welcome From Panel

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The confirmation hearing on Friday for the labor secretary-designate, Representative Hilda L. Solis, was a polite, even warm affair, except for one issue.
Some Republican senators questioned her support for a bill that would make it easier for workers to unionize, but Ms. Solis, a California Democrat, declined to discuss the measure, saying that she had not talked about it with President-elect Barack Obama.
Many Republicans oppose the bill, the Employee Free Choice Act, which would enable unions to add millions of workers and would largely eliminate use of the secret ballot to determine whether workers want a union. 
The bill would give employees the right to gain union recognition as soon as a majority signed cards saying they wanted a union.
Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, a member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, asked Ms. Solis why she supported a bill that would bypass secret ballots when she had, as a California legislator, backed a bill that called for using secret ballots to determine whether a company's employees favored flextime arrangements.
Ms. Solis declined to discuss the apparent contradiction and her views of the free choice measure, which could face a filibuster in the Senate.
She said her position as nominee ''doesn't, in my opinion, afford me the ability to provide you with an opinion at this time.''
Ms. Solis took pains to avoid any contention with the senators. With several Republicans praising her and Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, saying he would vote for her, her confirmation seemed assured.
The committee chairman, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, repeatedly praised Ms. Solis.
''We need leaders who understand what working families are facing in today's economy,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''I believe that Hilda Solis is just such a leader.''
Ms. Solis, who was the first Hispanic woman to serve in the California State Senate, talked about her humble roots. Her father, an immigrant from Mexico, worked at a battery recycling plant in California, while her mother, an immigrant from Nicaragua, worked at a toy factory.
''The fact that I am sitting before everyone today, the child of an immigrant family, is proof that in America everything is possible,'' she said. ''Now we must work together to make sure every American has the same opportunity that I have.''
Three senators -- Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut; Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, and Bernard Sanders of Vermont, an independent who caucuses with the Democrats -- invited her to praise labor unions for lifting wages and protecting the middle class.
But Ms. Solis declined to shower praise on unions, except to say that her family benefited from her father's membership in the Teamsters union, where he was a steward. ''His membership in the union helped my family have health benefits even when times were tough,'' she said.
Senator Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, the ranking Republican on the committee, asked Ms. Solis whether she would resign from the board of American Rights at Work, a pro-union group that has frequently attacked employers that have fought against unionization. She said she probably would.
''Any governing philosophy which rests on the assumption that the interests of employees and employers are always adversarial is destined to be counterproductive,'' Mr. Enzi said.
Ms. Solis said she wanted to improve job training, especially for the unemployed and returning veterans. ''If confirmed, I would work to ensure that our sons and daughters returning from Iraq and Afghanistan will receive the assistance they deserve'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Hilda L. Solis faced questions on Friday from senators at her confirmation hearing as labor secretary-designate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); FLEXTIME (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); FILIBUSTER (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); FAMILY (73%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (50%)

PERSON: HILDA L SOLIS (91%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); BERNIE SANDERS (58%); JOHNNY ISAKSON (58%); JACK REED (58%); ORRIN HATCH (57%); TED KENNEDY (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



327 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: The Leaves Have It

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Notes from the Age of Obama:
 Members of the still-not-in-power administration traveled to the Capitol this week to allow Senate Democrats to complain about the upcoming stimulus package. The Obama-ites were extremely eager to listen. After all, senators have feelings, too.
 ''These folks are not potted plants,'' said the senior adviser David Axelrod. 
 Already we have a big break with the past. The Bush White House so totally regarded senators as potted plants that it was a wonder that senior aides didn't attempt to water them. Democrats believed that Dick Cheney had a large chart in which legislators were identified by which type of household foliage they most resembled. (Harry Reid was a ficus.) But no more. 
 Barack Obama is going to change the tone of Washington politics. He promised. Of course George W. Bush promised that, too. But once his administration ran into resistance in Congress, the Era of Good Feeling was out the door and the potted-plant index was in. (John Kerry was a begonia.)
 The endless transition period is giving us a little clearer picture of how the next president is going to govern. He is going to be civil, and if somebody forgets to tell the chairman of the intelligence committee who the next C.I.A. director is going to be, he will apologize. He does not want to let side issues get in the way of his big priorities, whether said issue is as large as the Gaza crisis (only one president at a time) or as small as Roland Burris, the successor to Obama's Senate seat who was chosen by the eminently impeachable governor of Illinois.
 ''We have an economy on the ropes; we need to move forward,'' said Dick Durbin, the senior senator from Illinois when -- after some pressure from the White House -- he and Reid, the majority leader, reversed course and appeared ready to eventually welcome Burris into the fold. 
 We are rooting for Burris to make it into office, since any Roland who names his kids Roland II and Rolanda is bound to provide a welcome diversion in the gloomy months ahead. And if the Obama administration ever goes to the Dark Side, we have definitely got an early front-runner for their philodendron designation. 
 But in all deference to Durbin, we've got to put an end to people banning topics of conversation on the grounds that we are living in a time of financial peril. Last month, the artistic director of a Manhattan theater company suggested to The Times's Patrick Healy that it was inappropriate to ask him to discuss sudden changes in the ''Pal Joey'' cast when ''the entire world economy is falling apart.'' Next thing you know, we'll be barred from saying anything negative about the Super Bowl in deference to the unemployment rate. 
 We also really need to clarify the limits to proper political civility. Everyone agrees that even if Mitch McConnell does resemble a large, root-bound sansevieria trifasciata, the Democrats will keep it to themselves. But there's such a thing as getting carried away with bipartisanship.
 Obama has made no secret that he wants whopping Republican support for his stimulus plan to send a message to the country that we are all on the same page when it comes to fixing the economy. That's apparently the impetus for all the business tax cuts that appeared in the mix this week. And at a Senate confirmation hearing, Tom Daschle, the secretary of health and human services nominee, assured Republicans that they were right in believing the administration wanted to craft a health care policy that was not ''a 51-vote solution, but rather a 70-, 80- or a 90-vote solution.'' 
 There are some things on which parties can work together very nicely. For instance, it was very clear from the committee hearing that nobody in the Senate supports childhood obesity and that Daschle, a popular former majority leader, would be confirmed even if he had showed up to testify in the nude. Maybe, if everybody in the House tries very hard to get along, the chamber will not find it impossible to reach accord on a resolution commemorating Mother's Day, as happened last year.
 But there are some things about which the two parties are supposed to disagree. During the presidential campaign, Obama talked constantly about creating a national health insurance program while John McCain said the government should just give people tax breaks for buying their own policies. Obama won, and the Democrats' job now is to figure out how to make sure the current economic crisis is solved in a way that allows him to deliver on his promise to do something big and ambitious about health care -- and his other signature issue, energy/global warming. The Republicans' job is to try to limit the big spending to tax cuts and short-term building projects. If the final bill passes by 80 or 90 votes, it's probably going to be because it's a watered-down mess.
 Which is the sort of thing that nobody wants. Unless they live in a pot. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); THEATER (65%); THEATER COMPANIES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ROLAND BURRIS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); RICHARD DURBIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (70%); HARRY REID (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



328 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: What Are Our Goals in Afghanistan?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Afghan Quagmire'' (column, Jan. 6):
 Bob Herbert states that President-elect Barack Obama would need to articulate clearly the goals for any additional commitment of troops by the United States in Afghanistan. 
 Before doing so, Mr. Obama can learn much from the past. President Bush and his apologists could get no further than the hollow word ''victory'' for what we were supposed to accomplish in Iraq. Nobody knows even today what would have constituted victory in Iraq for Mr. Bush. 
 Mr. Obama can surely do better than Mr. Bush in stating the goals of any future American military involvement. Mr. Obama would also do well to study the long Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and its debilitating effect on the Soviet economy. 
 The American economy is already debilitated enough without more wars to rob taxpayers of dollars that are needed to fix up our country. Ben Myers 
 Harvard, Mass., Jan. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert describes the greatest threat to a successful Obama presidency and, thereby, the greatest peril to the ability of the United States to mount a successful economic recovery program. Increasing, or even maintaining, current troop levels would undermine both our national and economic security.
 Mr. Herbert (and the sources he quotes) are correct: our national interest is to prevent Afghanistan from again becoming a safe shelter from which to attack the United States or our friends and allies. 
 The strategic reality goes beyond Mr. Herbert's assertion that this does not require us to maintain an occupation force in Afghanistan. Effective strategy requires that our armed forces preserve their unparalleled maneuverability to strike our enemies quickly when and where needed. This precludes being bogged down where they are not needed (or wanted) as an occupation force.
 Andre Sauvageot 
 Reston, Va., Jan. 6, 2009
 The writer, a retired Army colonel, served nine years in the Vietnam War.
 To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert writes, ''Our interest in Afghanistan is to prevent it from becoming a haven for terrorists bent on attacking us.'' It was this kind of thinking that led Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld to believe that Operation Enduring Freedom could be run as a sideshow, with scant attention to the threat that the Taliban posed to the security of ordinary Afghans. 
 This in turn stimulated the revival of the Taliban by their Pakistani backers, and the dangerous reflux of radicalism into a nuclear-armed, failing state.
 It is, of course, true that a mere increase in the number of foreign troops in Afghanistan will count for little unless the most careful thought is given to how they should be used. But a decision to walk away from Afghanistan would do little more than help re-establish, on a grander scale, the very conditions that gave rise to 9/11. William Maley 
 Canberra, Australia, Jan. 6, 2009
 The writer, the director of the Asia-Pacific College of Diplomacy at the Australian National University, is the author of two books about Afghanistan.
 To the Editor:
 Our aim in Afghanistan ought to be what it originally should have been: the capture and prosecution of Osama bin Laden. 
 Beyond this, Afghanistan is an ally, and we can support the country with money, arms, food and other aid, but we can't ''save'' Afghanistan, just as we can't ''save'' Iraq. 
 We shouldn't confuse our purpose there with a misplaced hero's quest. 
 Tyler Clements 
 Yarmouth, Me., Jan. 6, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); ARMIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); TERRORISM (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



329 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Korean Carmaker Seeks Receivership

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN and BETTINA WASSENER. 
Choe Sang-hun reported from Seoul, South Korea, and Bettina Wassener from Hong Kong. Anny Li contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Ssangyong Motor, the South Korean unit of the largest Chinese automaker, filed for bankruptcy protection Friday, becoming the first major casualty among Asian carmakers as demand plunged and credit dried up.
 Ssangyong, the smallest of the five automakers in South Korea, had been struggling to obtain cash after being hit hard by slumping sales. In the last month, it was unable to pay its employees while governments and creditor banks in China and South Korea were locked in a dispute about who should bail out the company. Ssangyong is owned 51 percent by SAIC Motor of China but runs its factories in South Korea, employing 7,100.
 The automaker needed 600 billion won, or $447 million, in new financing to stay in business, according to its biggest creditor, the Korea Development Bank. 
 On Thursday, Ssangyong's board met in Shanghai, where SAIC is based, to discuss the crisis.
 ''We were running out of time as we discussed what we could do to avoid going bankrupt and deal with the acute cash flow crisis,'' Choi Sang Jin, Ssangyong's executive in charge of corporate planning, said Friday.
 On Friday, Ssangyong filed for receivership -- similar to bankruptcy protection in the United States. If the request is accepted, SAIC maintains its share holding but must relinquish management control while court-appointed executives and creditor banks determine the company's fate.
 In South Korea, creditor banks usually take over a company in court receivership, overhaul it by selling assets and laying off workers, and then resell it. Or they can liquidate the company if it is deemed unviable.
 Like their rivals around the world, South Korean carmakers have been cutting production to cope with a slump in demand. On Friday, Hyundai Motor, South Korea's top automaker, announced plans to cut production at all its domestic plants, except one producing small cars, by 25 to 30 percent in the first quarter, a company spokesman, Jake Jang, said.
 The deteriorating industry environment also prompted Moody's, the ratings agency, to place the Japanese carmaker Honda on review for a possible downgrade.
 In the fallout from the Ssangyong collapse, its chief executives, Choi Hyung Tak and Zhang Haitao, resigned on Friday.
 ''SAIC's behavior so far has shown that it is not much interested in Ssangyong any more,'' an analyst at Woori Securities, Chong Yon Ho, said. ''Ssangyong will find it hard to find new investors, since demand for its main products, such as S.U.V.'s and oil-guzzling big sedans, will not improve in the next two or three years.''
 SAIC said in an e-mailed statement that the decision had been a tough one to make and that it would work with all parties to help Ssangyong normalize operations. 
 ''SAIC would like to play a role, if given the chance, during the process of reviving the company,'' Mr. Choi, the Ssangyong executive, said when asked about reports that regarded the filing for court receivership as a way for SAIC to exit South Korea.
 Ssangyong became South Korea's first high-profile victim of the global crisis Friday just as the country's central bank cut its key interest rate for the fifth time in three months. The bank worried about domestic economic activity ''slackening at a rapid pace.'' The rate is now 2.5 percent, a record low, down from 3 percent.
 Ssangyong, previously owned by South Korea's Ssangyong conglomerate, faced similar trouble in after the Asian financial crisis that began in 1997.
 When SAIC gained control of Ssangyong in 2004 for $500 million, it made headlines because it was the first acquisition of an overseas automaker by a Chinese company.
 But it shocked South Koreans who feared that their giant neighbor was quickly catching up in another important industry. Ssangyong has been plagued by negative news reports in South Korea, and prosecutors are investigating accusations of illegal technology transfers from Ssangyong to SAIC.
 Last month, Ssangyong and SAIC sought help from the Seoul government. But the government and Ssangyong's main creditor, the state-owned Korea Development Bank, insisted that SAIC as the majority shareholder take the lead in providing cash relief.
 SAIC faced its own troubles at home, with its sales plunging. In addition, the Chinese government complained that South Korean banks were reluctant to extend loans to Ssangyong, said people close to talks between Ssangyong and the South Korean banks. They spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter with the media.
 Ssangyong on Friday unveiled several measures to cut costs such as seeking voluntary retirement, wage cuts of up to 30 percent for the next two years and provisional suspension of welfare support.
 Manufacturers around the world have suffered greatly from shrinking demand, but some have received government assistance. American automakers, notably General Motors and Chrysler, have recently received emergency bailout money. 
 Because of its relatively small size and its Chinese ownership, Ssangyong has not stirred the kind of public sympathy that giant domestic companies in trouble had elicited.
 But political pressure is expected to mount on the government to save the company when Ssangyong begins shedding its local workers.
 Toyota Motor, which had been deemed relatively resilient because of its fuel-efficient cars, recently warned of a likely operating loss this year -- an announcement widely interpreted as a sign of worse to come.
 With an annual production capacity of 200,000 vehicles and 7,100 employees, Ssangyong has posted four consecutive quarterly losses. Its sales fell 30 percent last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SEDANS (63%)

COMPANY: SSANGYONG MOTOR CO (92%); SAIC MOTOR CORP LTD (85%); KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%)

TICKER: 003620 (KSE) (92%); HYUD (LSE) (53%); 005380 (KSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS811122 AUTOMOTIVE GLASS REPLACEMENT SHOPS (85%); SIC7536 AUTOMOTIVE GLASS REPLACEMENT SHOPS (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) EAST CHINA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009



330 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2308 words

HEADLINE: Museums Look Inward For Their Own Bailouts

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
THREE weeks ago the art world waited breathlessly for word on whether the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles would survive or go bust. The museum's problem wasn't the economic downturn so much as stupidity. During flush times, when it could have and should have been building a nest egg, it ran through its savings. 
 As museums go, this one, just 30 years old, is still young, and young is sexy. So of course a white knight, the billionaire art collector Eli Broad, rode to the rescue with a $30 million bailout plan. Some people cheered; others sneered. Few thought to point out that more venerable and vulnerable institutions across the country are also struggling, but with no bailouts in sight. 
 Major art museums in Detroit, Newark and Brooklyn are prime examples. Forged a century ago or more from idealism and dollars, they are American classics, monuments to Yankee can-do and, in the case of Detroit and Brooklyn, can-do-better-than-Europe. As latecomers to the culture game, American museums had to buy art fast and big, and they did. Their fabulous collections are our national treasures. 
 But times and fortunes -- we all know the story -- changed. Depression, recession and politics brought powerful cities to their knees. Populations shifted. Whites left as blacks and new immigrants came; a once predominantly European culture became African, Asian, Latino. 
 Through all of this the old museums held on. Some were content to be dinosaurs, artifacts, and that worked for a while. But for most, passivity is no longer an option. Savings disintegrate; benefactors die or look elsewhere; people forget that museums are there and what they are for. Reality issues an order: do or die.
 Several of our veteran museums are doing by undoing: loosening up the rigid values and temple-of-art models that shaped them, and replacing these with a new ''people's museum'' model, unsacred in atmosphere, fluid in values, with complicated answers to the question of what museums are. 
 The results of this thinking range from great to work-in-progress gauche to soul-selling bad. The goal in most cases is the same: to get visitors through the door. People bring museums to life. Lively museums feel young and hip, which brings rewards. 
 At least that's the idea. Time will tell. For now, as these older museums give it a whirl, they are setting examples that younger or better cushioned institutions should study. If they don't, and the economy continues its descent, they'll be out there too. 
 Detroit Institute of Arts
 The most striking change in institutional fortunes has been witnessed at the Detroit Institute of Arts, partly because the museum's form and ambitions were so grand. Founded in 1888, and later housed in a majestic Beaux-Arts building two miles from the city's downtown area, it was both a civic and cultural monument, ''dedicated by the people of Detroit to the knowledge and enjoyment of art,'' according to the words carved over its front door.
 The collection is extraordinary, with renowned pictures by Jan van Eyck, Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Giovanni Bellini; one of the country's premier troves of 19th-century American painting; and -- the modernist piece de resistance -- Diego Rivera's ''Detroit Industry'' murals, a proletarian fantasy paid for in 1934 by a heavy-hitting local patron, the industrialist Edsel Ford. 
 Comparable largess is all but nonexistent in Detroit today. Wealthy industrialists have faded from the scene. The Michigan state government gives almost no money to the institute, the city even less. In 1997 Detroit built the Museum of African-American History across the street from the institute, its spanking newness in sharp contrast to its older, crumbling neighbor. 
 Graham W. J. Beal, who arrived as director that year, has done much to stop the decline, largely -- and this is where other museums should pay attention -- through the use of material at hand. In 2007, to attract the city's black majority and woo back white suburbanites, the museum unveiled a top-to-bottom rethinking of all the permanent galleries, with strategic shifts in emphasis.
 The museum's very fine African collection, developed by the curator Michael Kan, was placed upfront, near a main entrance, where it offers a cool yet absorbing introduction to the institute's imperious interior. A gallery for African-American art, including Detroit artists, was added upstairs: it's an important gesture, although something should have been done to make it look commanding rather than dutiful. 
 Other parts of the collection have been reinstalled by interpretive theme, with wall texts reflecting the influence of a new art history that approaches objects as vehicles of social values. The texts are bland, but the idea is sound: this is the kind of context the Metropolitan Museum in New York should be offering in, among other places, its Greek and Roman galleries. Finally, child-friendly multimedia aids were added to deliver on the museum's twin promise of knowledge and pleasure. 
 Pure-art hard-liners will spurn all of this. Accessibility, they will say, means stripping the museum of the lofty mystique that is its strength. And giving prominence to what was once called ethnic art means perpetuating old cultural imbalances yet in reverse, in the interest of political correctness, the thinking goes. 
 I disagree. I'd be glad if the museum added even more interpretive stuff but made it sharper and more challenging. If this causes problems, it can always be changed, but what's the problem with causing problems? African art upfront? There's no art I'd rather see anywhere, so why not there? As for political correctness, I'm over the whole idea, especially when the expression is used to demean sincere belief. 
 Whatever its shortcomings, the reinstallation proves that a major museum can recharge itself from within, from its own holdings. And this kind of recharging could well become the only viable route for museums. That said, it is no guarantee of security. Mr. Beal will soon announce yet another rethought version of the Detroit Institute: a ''shrunken'' museum of radically reduced resources in a city in financial free fall.
 Newark Museum
 The Newark Museum, which will celebrate its centenary in April, was also the pride of a prosperous town hit later by economic reversals and population shifts, culminating in an explosion of racial violence in 1967. Yet it differs from the Detroit Institute in certain essentials: it is smaller, multidisciplinary and ''a people's museum'' by design.
 It began as two galleries on the top floor of the city's public library, one marked ''art'' and the other ''science.'' The museum's founder, John Cotton Dana, a librarian, made clear that his purpose was not to create ''a temple in a park,'' but a center for learning, with art being one of several sources of edification. When the museum's current building opened in 1926, it equally accommodated longtime citizens and new immigrants, who could study art but also learn a trade in shows that alternated between fine art and industrial design.
 The museum's multidisciplinary origins are still with it: along with art, it has natural history displays, a mini-zoo and a planetarium. Its early multicultural bias is evident too. African art bought by Dana at the turn of the century is on view. So is a cache of Tibetan art -- the largest ensemble in the West -- gathered by a local missionary, Albert L. Shelton, and displayed on a Tibetan Buddhist altar consecrated by the Dalai Lama. 
 The question of how to present religious material in the secular context of a museum has been much debated in the last few decades, after identity politics prompted a reassertion of the authenticity of certain spiritual traditions, and scholars insisted that performance has often constituted the meaning of ritual art. 
 The matter may seem purely academic for anyone committed to the Modernist divide between art and religion. But a belief in the active agency of sacred things has many implications. It is fire that burns beneath bitter repatriation disputes, and in places like India or Africa it shapes the very concept of what a museum is and does.
 The Museum for African Art is one of the few museums in Manhattan to regularly and seriously bring secular and sacred together in a gallery. But Newark has been doing so for years -- with Christian art too -- thus placing itself in the vanguard. 
 The museum is lucky in drawing substantial support from its home city and state, allowing visitors to pay what they wish. It certainly wouldn't make much if it depended for support on foot traffic from New York. I am always amazed to learn of art professionals who have never been to the museum, a mere half-hour PATH ride from Midtown Manhattan. Not that it needs New York's confirmation. Few museums feel both as wide-ranging and as self-sufficient.
 Brooklyn Museum
 Of all the veteran institutions banking on alternative status, the Brooklyn Museum's current and insistent version of otherness is the most controversial, although it does have a long history. 
 In the mid-19th-century Brooklyn was a flourishing independent city, the third-largest in the country, with ambitions to build the No. 1 museum. Taking Manhattan as the team to beat, it began erecting a gigantic multiplex affair.
 But no sooner had the first step of the plan been completed -- the Beaux-Arts building the museum occupies now -- than Brooklyn was merged into New York City, and the museum defaulted to No. 2, a position it has kept as its audiences changed from haute bourgeois to working-class and immigrant poor. 
 Despite a magnificent collection and a record of estimable shows, the museum is still routinely dismissed as a perpetual, and failed, Met aspirant, an identity it often seemed to accept as attendance declined. Not so many years ago its cavernous entrance hall was one of the emptiest big spaces in the city.
 In 1997 Arnold L. Lehman, a Brooklyn native, became director and said, ''Enough, already.'' The focus of the Brooklyn Museum, he reasoned, should be Brooklyn, with its multiethnic population and new crop of upwardly mobile young professionals. In so many words he told disapproving Manhattan critics to kiss off. Not that he turned his back on Manhattan. He rented expensive imported shows like ''Sensation,'' in 1999, and last season's Takashi Murakami survey, fare almost guaranteed to lure traffic across the Brooklyn Bridge. 
 Such shows put the museum, for better or worse (often worse), in the news. They also ratcheted up its youth presence, as, in different ways, did two other exhibitions, one of commercial hip-hop artifacts and another of ''Star Wars'' paraphernalia. 
 Both of these shows were panned, but what was the significant difference between them and the Guggenheim's much-praised motorcycle extravaganza, or the average design showcase at the Museum of Modern Art? The main distinction, I'd say, was class: high class (Guggenheim, MoMA) versus lower class (Brooklyn).
 For me those Brooklyn shows fell under the category of material culture, a legitimate candidate for art museum display though not necessarily approachable by traditional formalist critical standards. I saw the hip-hop show twice. It was packed. Being a greenhorn, I asked my fellow viewers questions -- who's this, what's that -- and learned a lot. It was a great museum experience. 
 Not everything Mr. Lehman programs has been so clearly box-office directed. The Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for feminist art isn't. It mostly draws a select audience with defined interests. But its presence for the museum is invaluable. It distinguished this institution from any other: you can only find this there, and this is something that reliable numbers of people will always want to find. A Manhattan museum should have thought of a feminist center decades ago. 
 The big failure under Mr. Lehman's stewardship so far has been the treatment of the museum's incomparable collection. Major permanent collection displays -- Egypt, Africa, Art of the Americas -- are badly designed. It's not a question of too many labels; I'm into labels. They just look cheesy. A change in the design team is long overdue. 
 It's too bad the museum recently had to transfer its priceless costume collection to the Met, but just as well. It's still in the city, and the Met has the resources to care for it. The big problem is that many of Brooklyn's holdings remain unseen -- and, chances are, undocumented. Here the Detroit Institute and the Newark Museum are examples to follow, but so is some work that Brooklyn itself has done in the past. 
 In the mid-1990s, when money was scarce, a team of staff curators went into the vaults, pulled out the museum's long unseen collection of Spanish colonial material and created a cross-departmental show, ''Converging Cultures: Art and Identity in Spanish America.'' People who saw it were stunned. 
 Who knew that this fabulous stuff -- textiles, portrait painting, furniture, glowing religious icons, high art and low art, elitist and popular -- had been there in the dark all that time? Clearly, everyone said, this museum is sitting on a gold mine. It is. Mr. Lehman should start digging now.
 Sooner rather than later, given the state of the economy, he may not have any choice. For our older, underprivileged, underloved museums, this is the silver lining of hard times. These institutions have the art, the real thing. They have the space; if not much. With luck they have scholarly expertise and curatorial imagination, which they should value like gold. Now is the time, if ever there was one, to look within and bring forth what's there. People will come. And bigger, richer, less adventurous museums will follow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jan van Eyck's ''St. Jerome in His Study,'' right, is among the renowned paintings at the Detroit Institute of Arts, below left. ''The All-Powerful Hand Mexico,'' below right, is at the Brooklyn Museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS
COURTESY OF THE BROOKLYN MUSEUM) (pg.AR1)
Students recently toured the exhibition ''Fire Escapes: Danger & Survival'' at the Newark Fire Museum, which is on the campus of the Newark Museum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN HEDDEN)
A Tibetan Buddhist altar is at the Newark Museum. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE NEWARK MUSEUM)
The Newark Museum moved into its current building in 1926 and will celebrate its centenary in April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONROE CREATIVE PARTNERS)
 Epa Cult Mask, by Bamgboye of Odo-Owa of Africa. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS) (pg.AR25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



331 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN WOODHAVEN, QUEENS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Diversity Under the El

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER

 BODY:
ONE sweet strand in the story of Woodhaven, a neighborhood in southwestern Queens, stretches back to 1925, when Schmidt's Candies opened on Jamaica Avenue near 94th Street. Today the shop's glass cases, lined with chocolates set by hand upon pale wax paper trays, are the province of the founders' granddaughter, Margie Schmidt, an abrupt, fast-talking single mother of three children, 9, 12 and 17. 
 One afternoon last month, at the peak of the holiday rush, Ms. Schmidt bounded behind counters to gift-wrap boxes of homemade ribbon candy, gabbed with customers about long-ago afternoons on front porches, and stole away in brief installments to the back room, where she dipped a plastic tub into a cardboard reservoir of melted chocolate and drizzled it onto miniature pretzels. 
 Ms. Schmidt grew up in Woodhaven in a house on 94th Street, about a block south of the family shop. In 1988, she bought the house next door to the shop, for $150,000. Behind the counter last month, wearing sweat pants and a baseball cap and T-shirt, both bearing the letters F.D.N.Y., Ms. Schmidt embodied the self-reliance and small town pride reflected in Woodhaven's motto: ''A Haven in the City.'' 
 ''Woodhaven has always been and continues to be a blue-collar, working-class immigrant neighborhood,'' she said.
 It occupies about a square mile, and of its 40,000 or so residents, 45 percent are Hispanic, 29 percent white, 14 percent Asian, and 5 percent black, with most of the rest multiracial, according to census estimates. It is bounded on the north by Park Lane South, on the south by Atlantic Avenue, on the west by Eldert Lane and the Brooklyn line, and on the east by 102nd Street.
 There are some longtime residents who say that new forces and faces have taken a toll on the neighborhood's hard-working ethic. But Joseph Ruggiere, for one, disagrees. The owner of Ohlert-Ruggiere Inc., a real estate and insurance company, Mr. Ruggiere, 80, sees new arrivals as carrying on the immigrant traditions, rather than debasing them.
 ''A lot of Latinos have moved into the community,'' he said. ''They buy houses and have this pride of ownership that is so great. They fix up their houses, and when I leave at night to go home from work, I see them sweeping their sidewalks and shoveling, sweeping up the leaves and the garbage.''
 Indeed, Jamaica Avenue is a testament to Woodhaven's diversity. It is lined with delis, halal bodegas and Mexican bakeries, in addition to shops like M. M. Housewares, owned by Jack Moy, who came to Woodhaven from China 20 years ago. Near 77th Street is the supermarket (now a Met Food) built by Fred Christ Trump, identified as ''Father of The Donald'' on a sign posted by the Woodhaven Cultural and Historical Society. 
 At the neighborhood's western edge, where a supermarket and housing development now stand, there was once a place called Dexter Park, which from 1911 to 1955 was a site for semiprofessional baseball games. Its field lights allowed for the first night game, in 1930, according to Leonora Lavan, the historical society president. 
 There are local groups that work to address neighborhood issues like graffiti on commercial properties along Jamaica Avenue.
 Maria Thomson, executive director of both the Woodhaven Business Improvement District and the Greater Woodhaven Development Corporation, is setting her sights on the elevated J and Z subway rails, which loom above Jamaica Avenue, the area's main thoroughfare, like a rusted spine. They are badly in need of cleaning, scraping and painting.
 ''Our avenue is clean and bright and very vibrant,'' she said, ''and then you look up and see all the peeling and the miserable damage to the el that has not been addressed in the last 25 years.'' 
 Anthony Fernandez, an agent with Re/Max Liberty, says some of his clients opt for neighborhoods other than Woodhaven because they dislike the idea of the trains constantly rumbling over the main shopping district. ''It sort of gives the neighborhood a dark side,'' he said, while also acknowledging that others consider the subway's proximity a strength.
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 During the holidays, the undersides of the J and Z rails are hung with colored lights and a sound system that blares Christmas music along Jamaica Avenue -- which divides the neighborhood into what brokers commonly call Woodhaven north and south. 
 The northern portion is smaller, while its houses are generally larger. Proximity to Forest Park and the size and quality of the housing stock make this area pricier. It has detached and semidetached wood frame houses on wide lots -- many with garages, wraparound porches, driveways and finished attics. Three- to six-story red brick co-op apartment buildings punctuate Park Lane South, steps from Forest Park. The land rises steeply to the park; full flights of stairs lead to front doors of houses perched along the incline.
 The post office and the library can be found on a stretch of Forest Parkway in the north; on the block near 85th Street is the house where Betty Smith wrote her 1943 novel, ''A Tree Grows in Brooklyn,'' according to Ms. Lavan.
 Woodhaven south, which stretches from Jamaica Avenue to Atlantic Avenue, contains some similar houses, but many more of its streets are lined with attached row houses, which tend to fetch lower prices.
 Ms. Lavan said the actress Mae West once lived on 88th Street near 98th Avenue and sang at the Union Course Tavern, several blocks away on 78th Street.
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Since this time last year, house prices have dropped 10 to 15 percent, brokers say. Similarly, houses that averaged three to six months on the market a year ago now sit for eight months to a year.
 Detached houses range from $450,000 to $520,000, according to Arturo Flores, an agent with Ohlert-Ruggiere. 
 Attached houses average $359,000, semidetached houses $450,000, according to Mr. Fernandez of Re/Max Liberty. 
 One-bedroom co-ops range from $110,000 to $130,000 and two-bedrooms from $180,000 to $210,000, according to Claude Marku, the owner of Century 21 Park Lane Realty. 
 Some rentals are available in private houses, he said. 
 WHAT TO DO
 The 543-acre Forest Park starts along Woodhaven's northern border. Tennis courts, a golf course and bridle trails are among its recreational offerings. The George Seuffert Sr. Band Shell, built in 1920 and named for a local military band leader who played at a bandstand on the same site, features free concerts in the summer. 
 The park has one of the five carousels operating in New York City parks. Built in 1903 by the master wood carver Daniel Carl Muller, it features a lion, a tiger and a deer in addition to painted horses. ''I call it the jewel of Forest Park,'' Ms. Thomson said.
 For one day each October, her group, the Woodhaven Economic Development Corporation, holds a street fair on Jamaica Avenue.
 Richard Kaiser, a 64-year-old retired banker who has lived in Woodhaven since he was 7, said that with all of Jamaica Avenue's offerings, one thing was conspicuously, and curiously, missing. ''It's probably one of the only neighborhoods that doesn't have any major restaurants,'' he said. There's a diner here, a diner there, he continued. But it's not the kind of place that has everything. 
 THE COMMUTE
 In addition to the J and Z subway lines, there are several buses, including the 11 and 53 along Woodhaven Boulevard, and the 56 along Jamaica Avenue. 
 THE SCHOOLS
 One of the neighborhood's two elementary schools is Public School 97, the Forest Park School, at 85th Street and 85th Road. Last year, 63 percent of its fourth graders met state standards in English and 85 in math, versus 61and 80 citywide. The school received an A on a city progress report. 
 Middle School 210, the Elizabeth Blackwell School, for Grades 6 through 8, is on 101st Avenue near 93rd Street, below Jamaica Avenue in Ozone Park. The school got a B on a city progress report last year. Of eighth graders, 55 percent met state standards in English and 65 in math, versus 43 and 60 citywide.
 Area high schools include Franklin K. Lane High School, on Jamaica Avenue just over the Brooklyn border. It has an enrollment of 1,781 in Grades 9 through 12. SAT averages last year were 375 in reading, 399 in math and 358 in writing, versus 438, 460, and 433 citywide. 
 THE HISTORY
 Once called Woodville, the neighborhood became Woodhaven to avoid confusion with a Woodville in upstate New York. In 1899, the opening of the Lalance & Grosjean enamel factory helped populate the neighborhood. The factory's clock tower still stands on Atlantic Avenue at 92nd Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STRONG SUPPORT: Under the subway rails along Jamaica Avenue, Woodside's thoroughfare, colored lights mark the season. As one official recently put it, ''Our avenue is clean and bright and very vibrant'' -- but the rails need sprucing up.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Woodhaven. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFECTIONERY (90%); FAMILY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); BAKERIES (68%); RELIGION (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (56%); CENSUS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



332 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: It's Come to This: Stick 'Em Up

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
IN an uncertain economy, when returns are poor on traditional investments, some people seek the haven of alternate revenue strategies. So, naturally, I'm thinking of taking up a life of crime.
 But which crime? Vice, clearly, is out. Just a hunch, really, but I've got to think that a 51-year-old is past his sell-by date in the sexual grocery. 
 Violent crime, like robbery, is probably also not a good idea. Anything I tried would end up a little like the story of the man who tried to hold up the Washman Auto Spa in Portland, Ore., last month. Wearing a white skeleton mask -- a nice touch -- he threatened a car-wash worker and demanded money. But his gun, which may have been an air pistol, broke apart. Undaunted, he threatened the worker with his fist; they proceeded to the till. 
 According to a report on KPTV in Portland, ''When the robber reached for the money, the employee grabbed a power washer and sprayed the man in the face.'' The would-be criminal mastermind fled; the report did not say whether the washer was set to dispense the hot wax. (See it at kptv.com/news/18377345/detail.html.)
 When it comes to crime, I like the wisdom from Teddy, the character Mickey Rourke played in ''Body Heat,'' the 1981 movie. Teddy said that whenever you try a decent crime, there are 50 ways you're going to mess up. ''If you think of 25 of them,'' he said, ''then you're a genius -- and you ain't no genius.'' 
 And he didn't say ''mess up,'' but it's easy enough to look up the accurately profane quotation. I don't print that kind of language; I'm no Rod Blagojevich, or even Patti Blagojevich. 
 Did somebody say Blagojevich? There's an idea. Of course, the helmet-haired governor has only been accused of dirty dealings like conspiring to sell Barack Obama's old Senate seat. But he provides inspiration nonetheless; a white-collar road could be the innovative path to the riches I'm seeking. Sadly, I've got the same problem here as with vice: no seat worth selling. 
 If you've been reading the news, however, there's been plenty of white-collar shenanigans to choose from. I could try the kind of intrigue that Marc S. Dreier, the highflying lawyer, is accused of engaging in. Mr. Dreier is said to have impersonated some guy in Canada to get some kind of deal signed, but I'm still trying to figure out what, if anything, he was trying to do. I've got a feeling he's not quite sure, either. 
 If I can't go Blago, and Dreier is beyond my ken, maybe I could try the full Madoff. There's something almost comforting about a Ponzi scheme like the one that Bernard L. Madoff has been accused of orchestrating. Ponzis, part of the grand array of pyramid schemes, are so storied and simple that one was the subject of an old episode of ''Dragnet.''
 SO I called an expert on corruption, Raymond Fisman, at Columbia Business School. He is co-author of a recent book, ''Economic Gangsters: Corruption, Violence and the Poverty of Nations,'' which delves into topics like corruption in the developing world and how skimming, embezzling and graft work and why they are so common.
 I called to ask whether I could use his economic treatise as a self-help book. He seemed a bit surprised. He had apparently not considered the possibility that such an angle could get him on ''Oprah.''
 Surprised, that is, but not appalled. I had stumbled on one of the core premises of the book, he said: ''Within each of us, there is this calculating gangster.'' Fear of getting caught keeps many of us from committing crimes, but if 95 percent of people around you are on the take, he said, ''you seem like a chump'' for living a clean life. 
 To start my criminal enterprise, I called a neighbor, Jon. He's a little unconventional in his views. I asked if he wanted to invest with me in a Ponzi-like scheme, robbing Peter to pay Paul. 
 He had one question: ''I get to be Paul?''
 Of course. What are friends for? I warned him, however, that he would probably be cheated eventually. He responded appropriately; my plan, he said, had the virtue of being ''upfront.'' He said he was weary of the standard approach of the investment world, where ''you know they're cheating you,'' but ''you don't know how.'' With regulatory crackdowns on the way for standard investment vehicles, crime could be ''the next bubble,'' he said. 
 Best of all, he added, ''everyone goes in with their eyes open, or at least their blindfolds neatly tied.''
 By the time we had gotten off the phone, he had bootstrapped my virtual spree into a franchise operation, or maybe a securitized portfolio, with various schemes laid in tranches. Frankly, my head was spinning. 
 Is that a go-ahead, then? Maybe not. 
 I've still got a job, and my mortgage isn't a killer. I hadn't planned on touching those lousy investments until retirement, anyway. Now that it looks as if I'll never be able to retire, everything will work out just fine. I accept that my 401(k) plan is there to teach me virtue, symbolically. It's like not eating all the cake in the fridge, and one day seeing that you've put off the pleasure of eating it so long that the cake has spoiled.
 Besides, when I look at those three guys -- Mr. Blagojevich, Mr. Dreier and Mr. Madoff -- they have one thing in common. They've all been arrested. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL VASCONCELLOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); ROBBERY (76%)

PERSON: ROD BLAGOJEVICH (64%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



333 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Money Market Funds Are a Refuge, Right?

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
THE amount of cash held in money market funds at the start of 2009 exceeded the money in stock mutual funds for the first time in more than a decade, as shaken investors sought a familiar safe haven.
 Yet 2008 may go down in history as the year that cast doubt on everything American investors thought they knew about money market funds.
 Their shares will always be worth 100 cents on the dollar? The oldest money fund sponsor in the country, the Reserve Fund, disclosed in September that its largest money fund had broken the buck, reporting a per-share price of 97 cents. 
 Immediate access to savings? Tens of thousands of Reserve Fund investors are still waiting to get the last of their money back in a liquidation, and may never get the last few cents on the dollar.
 A plain-vanilla, no-drama investment? Oh, please. The Reserve Fund battle already involves regulatory investigators, a giant Chinese fund caught in the mess and a federal judge in Minneapolis. The Treasury had to cobble together an ad hoc insurance program to keep the Reserve Fund panic from spreading. And the lawsuits stretch from here to next year, and include accusations -- denied by the fund -- that some big investors were warned of the crisis in time to get out whole.
 And yet, as the economic storm worsens, money funds still seem the refuge of choice. According to the Investment Company Institute, the nation's money funds held $3.83 trillion on New Year's Eve -- about $22 billion more than at Christmas, $110 billion more than at Thanksgiving and $712 billion more than at the end of 2007.
 Those billions could have flowed into F.D.I.C.-insured bank accounts. ''But for decades, people have had the choice between higher yield and absolute safety, and they've chosen yield,'' said Peter Crane, president of Crane Data, which tracks the mutual fund industry.
 That doesn't mean the money fund industry will not be changed by the fallout from the money fund crisis of 2008.
 For one thing, there is still a lot to learn about what actually happened with the Reserve Primary fund, the $64 billion money market fund that was the flagship for the Reserve Fund complex. 
 Last week, a federal judge in Minneapolis approved a request that a ''special master'' be appointed to monitor how the complex's managers use fund assets as the Primary fund and its sister funds are slowly liquidated. The request was made by lawyers for Ameriprise Financial, whose customers had about $1.2 billion in the fund. The judge also allowed Ameriprise to make public some previously confidential portions of its lawsuit supporting its allegation that some big investors were tipped about the crisis a day early.
 The Reserve Fund has attributed its troubles to a run triggered by fears about its $785 million stake in commercial paper issued by Lehman Brothers, which filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 15. 
 On that same day, the newly public lawsuit passages assert, Reserve Fund staff members told certain investors that writing off the Lehman stake would put the Primary fund at risk of breaking the buck and warned them that the fund was experiencing ''above normal'' levels of redemptions -- disclosures that, in effect, prompted the run that the fund blames for its problems.
 The Reserve Fund has called these complaints ''outrageous'' allegations that will be proved groundless in court.
 The fund complex, meanwhile, has been notified that the enforcement staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission is recommending a formal investigation of its affiliated management company; Bruce R. Bent, the management company's president; and Mr. Bent's two sons, also company executives. 
 Besides any fresh lessons that an investigation may produce, the money fund industry is also facing the uncertain ramifications of the Treasury's new insurance program, adopted in the wake of the Reserve Fund panic.
 The temporary program is more limited than it sounds: It insures only assets that were in a money fund on Sept. 19 and have been left there, not assets that have been invested since then.
 Nevertheless, if the program is expanded or becomes permanent -- as many in the industry expect -- the Treasury will most likely attach a few additional strings.
 ''If the Treasury is going to insure these funds, bank-style, we are likely to end up with bank-style regulations,'' said Matthew P. Fink, a former fund industry executive and author of ''The Rise of Mutual Funds: An Insider's View'' (Oxford University Press, 2008). 
 And the money fund industry will be one target of the broader regulatory reform effort that has been promised by the incoming Obama administration. Regulators may consider requiring greater portfolio diversification and minimum levels of cash as a buffer against a panic, according to Mr. Fink.
 BUT such steps would complicate the already challenging arithmetic confronting money fund sponsors. Most are already waiving fees so they can offer any yield at all, given today's very low interest rates; a higher cash requirement would push yields even lower, while more regulation could push up sponsor expenses.
 Of course, fee waivers can be a boon to retail investors for as long as they last. But only strong fund sponsors can afford to operate their money funds as ''loss leaders'' over the long run -- especially when they must also be prepared to step in and prevent those funds from breaking the buck in a turbulent market.
 Indeed, most fund analysts agreed that the clearest consumer lesson of the money fund crisis of 2008 is that the future of the industry belongs to the strong -- those sponsors that investors can credibly expect to step in and save them from the fate that overtook shareholders in the Reserve Fund. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); JUDGES (87%); LITIGATION (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (74%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); CHRISTMAS (64%); THANKSGIVING (64%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (80%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (80%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (53%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



334 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: In Nashville, A Ballot Measure That May Quiet All but English

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

DATELINE: NASHVILLE 

 BODY:
In crisp Japanese, the metropolitan councilman read aloud his resolution to limit Nashville government workers to communicating only in English. 
 ''Kono jyoukyou wa kaeru bekidesu,'' said the councilman, Eric Crafton, who is fluent in Japanese. Translated, it meant, ''This situation must change.''
 The fact that few people, if any, attending the council meeting understood Mr. Crafton proved his point. Nashville, like most cities in the country, allows government officials to communicate in any language they choose, and Mr. Crafton wants to end that practice.
 In a proposal that has defined him publicly and dominated local politics for two years, Mr. Crafton hopes to make Nashville the largest city in the United States to prohibit the government from using languages other than English, with exceptions allowed for issues of health and safety. On Jan. 22, city residents will vote on the proposal, which Mr. Crafton calls English First and critics call English Only. 
 ''I happened to see a state legislature meeting in California where several of the state representatives had interpreters at their desk because they couldn't speak English,'' Mr. Crafton said. ''That's not the vision I have for Nashville.''
 But the vision he does have for Nashville -- and eventually America -- has drawn criticism from Mayor Karl Dean and a broad coalition of civil rights groups, business leaders, ministers and immigration experts. The leaders of nine institutions of higher education in Nashville wrote an opinion article in The Tennessean newspaper opposing the proposal, which they said would sully the city's reputation for tolerance and diversity.
 ''The irony of the city known as the 'Athens of the South' becoming the first major metropolitan community in America to pass 'English only' is a distressing prospect,'' they wrote. 
 The Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce, in a rare alliance with liberal groups like the Green Party, has opposed the proposal for business reasons. 
 ''Economics is global, and to be competitive you cannot drive away immigrants and the businesses that rely on them,'' said Ralph J. Schulz, the chamber president. ''Businesses from outside Nashville have been calling and saying, 'Is Nashville a xenophobic place?' ''
 The city government spends more than $100,000 on translation and related costs every year, Mr. Crafton said, adding that he believes the cost of those services should be borne by the constituents who require them.
 Mr. Crafton, 41, who became fluent in Japanese after serving in the Navy in Japan in the 1990s, said he also believed that encouraging immigrants to learn English would help them assimilate.
 Jonathan Z. Crisp, a former chairman of the county Republican Party and a supporter of the proposal, said: ''Our opponents talk about Nashville being the 'Athens of the South.' But if you go to the other Athens, in Greece, all of the government workers are speaking Greek.''
 Thirty states, including Tennessee, and at least 19 cities have declared English the official language, according to Rob Toonkel, a spokesman for the U.S. English Foundation, which advocates such policies. But most of the cities are small, places like Hazelton, Pa., and Culpeper, Va.
 In Nashville, which has a population of about 600,000, two factors have been driving interest in Mr. Crafton's proposal: the booming immigrant population and the faltering economy. 
 In the 1990s, the number of immigrants in Nashville tripled, according to government estimates, and more than 10 percent of residents were born outside the country. But over the past year, as the state unemployment rate rose to 6.9 percent from 5 percent, experts say, immigrants came under greater criticism.
 ''While the immigrant population burgeoned, there was very little organized anti-immigrant attitude,'' said Daniel B. Cornfield, a sociology professor at Vanderbilt University. ''But the anti-immigrant sentiment seemed to mobilize as the economy slowed down.''
 On a recent weekend, volunteers for a coalition called Nashville for All of Us, which opposes the proposal, knocked on doors and distributed campaign literature in Woodbine, a heavily Hispanic neighborhood.
 Melissa Gordon, 29, a graduate student, and Laura Barnett, 24, a recent college graduate, rang the doorbell at David Morales's ranch-style house. Mr. Morales, a Mexican immigrant and language translator, told them he already knew about the proposal and planned to vote against it.
 ''It's part of a larger problem of people not understanding immigrants: their habits, their languages, their barbecues in the front yard,'' he said. ''It's more than just fear about jobs. It's fear about a whole way of life.''
 But Mike Watson, 40, a construction worker interviewed in downtown Nashville, said he supported Mr. Crafton's proposal. ''It's not about racism or anything,'' Mr. Watson said. ''I just think we need to save our money in this economy, and we can't be translating everything into any language all the time.''
 Early voting began on Jan. 2 and will continue until Jan. 17. With low turnout expected, as with any ballot initiative, the election will depend on which side can rally supporters without mobilizing the opposition, said Michael P. McDonald, a political science professor at George Mason University in Virginia. 
 ''There are high levels of support for these types of measures if people don't view them as punitive against immigrant communities,'' Mr. McDonald said. ''The trick is, you don't want to somehow motivate your opponent's voters with emotional rhetoric.''
 In 2006, Mr. Crafton drafted his first resolution to make English the official language of Nashville. The Metropolitan Council approved the bill in 2007, but Bill Purcell, the mayor at the time, vetoed it. In response, Mr. Crafton collected more than 5,500 signatures, nearly twice the number necessary, to force a referendum.
 Mr. Crafton's singular focus on changing the language policy has earned him a far larger profile than most council members. 
 In October, a Vanderbilt professor was investigated by the police for placing threatening phone calls to Mr. Crafton about the English proposal. Last month, an alternative newspaper spoofed a famous red-and-blue Obama poster, with the word ''English'' replacing ''Change'' under a drawing of Mr. Crafton. 
 Still, critics say he has wasted at least $350,000 of taxpayer money on a special election for an issue that does not matter to most voters. ''I don't think English Only would be an issue if it weren't for Eric Crafton,'' said Mr. Schulz of the Chamber of Commerce.
 But Mr. Crafton insists that momentum is on his side in Nashville and across the country. ''We'll make English the official language here,'' he said. ''After that happens, we're going to go city to city, show them how we've done it here, and let the dominos fall.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about an effort in Nashville to prohibit the government from using languages other than English included an incorrect statement from Councilman Eric Crafton of Nashville, the chief supporter of the city's plan, about the California State Legislature. The Legislature has never had members who needed the proceedings translated into English for them. (Mr. Crafton, contacted after a reader alerted The Times, said he recalled seeing a story about such translators on television, but could not provide specifics or documentation for his claim.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS:Melissa Gordon, left, and Laura Barnett spoke to Joy Bland as they campaigned door to door against the language proposal.
Eric Crafton, the metropolitan councilman behind the proposal, calls the plan English First.
 ''It's part of a larger problem,'' David Morales said of the plan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BALLOTS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



335 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Coming Home To Rough Times In a Tough Town

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
FIRST impressions, like small cars, are not Detroit's strong suit. Especially in January, when automotive journalists from around the world roll in for the annual auto show.
They drive in from the airport over the potholes of Interstate 94 past the city's unofficial gateway, an eight-story-high roadside tire, through the lock-your-doors blight of the west side and into the missing-teeth maw of downtown.
They don't get a whiff of Grosse Pointe, or Birmingham, or any of the other fine suburbs that ring the metropolitan area of 4.5 million people. Instead, the journalists peer out at something that resembles a big city -- tall buildings, check -- but is creepily empty of humans and even the gridlock you'd expect in such a car-centric place.
The accepted adjective is ''gritty,'' a nice way of saying ''hellhole.'' Now, before you say ''How dare you?'' I offer a welded-metal defense: I'm a Detroiter. 
Sure, my driver's license says New York, but I'm a transplant with greasy credentials. My grandfather and namesake worked in the Dodge Main plant in Hamtramck, a blue-collar Polish enclave, and had missing fingers to show for it. (This long-gone factory thrummed with 40,000 workers in World War II. A single Ford facility, the fabled Rouge complex, once had 100,000 workers punching the clock. Today, the combined Detroit Three employ fewer than 200,000 -- in both white and blue collars -- from coast to coast.)
My late blue-collar father and retired white-collar uncle worked for Budd, a parts supplier that was absorbed by a German steel company. My brother, Kurt, is a millwright at Chrysler, though he's been idle since Easter and has had two tours of Iraq as an Army reservist.
As a teenager in the '80s, I lasted a year in a union-free shop, a nasty corrugated bunker where accidents and callous managers taught me why unions came to exist. Now I'm back for an annual auto-show pilgrimage, which also allows a catch-up with friends, family and the city that I love -- sort of. Detroit and its eponymous industry are both like the relative who's in and out of rehab: you're never sure whether he needs a hug or a smack upside the head.
The unofficial theme of the 2009 show, of course, is Detroit's Last Stand. People from Washington will be sniffing around in hopes that their bailout money is being well spent. Writers will seek their very own Joe the Welder for predictable features on the plight of the working class. (They might try Miller's Bar in Dearborn, a Ford joint with the ideal blend of rec-room paneling and stoic, Bud-sipping Midwesterners.)
At every Detroit auto show, it seems, some out-of-towner will start with the easy put-downs -- Murder City, Land of the Dinosaurs and all that.
I always find myself mouthing defenses that any resident will recognize: The 'burbs are really nice. How about that music scene? I have my tourist-bureau fallbacks: the lovingly renovated Detroit Institute of Arts; Cranbrook, the suburban art school where Eliel Saarinen taught (and where my friends and I trespassed for moonlight swims).
The city itself has a rough charm for those who can see beyond the industrial decay. I lived downtown for years and attended Wayne State University there. High-decibel memories were made below Eight Mile Road, Detroit's northern border. I played Vox organ with the Hysteric Narcotics, one of the city's garage rock groups of the mid-'80s. Sharing bills with cool bands like the Gories, we made a home in a scene that the casual tourist would never find.
Our haunts included St. Andrew's Hall near Greektown, highlighted in the movie ''Eight Mile.'' In Hamtramck, not far from G.M.'s Poletown plant, we made a home at charming dives like Lili's 21, the CBGB of Detroit, where even stars like the Clash would pop in. Anyone who has lugged an amp into Lili's will raise a glass to the late Lili Karwowski. A big-haired Polish hostess in leopard prints, Lili took scruffy musicians like us under her wing, leaving one arm free to pour shots.
A few years later, when techno became the latest musical phenomenon with Motown roots, I attended underground raves in the apocalyptic ruins of the Packard auto plant. It was another only-in-Detroit example of ingenuity and resilience, stirring something from the ashes, celebrating amid wreckage.
This year, I'll point skeptics toward the Westin Book Cadillac. A short walk from the show at Cobo Center, the renovated hotel had moldered for decades, an embarrassingly vacant hulk on a prominent plot of downtown real estate.
The shame is that, until the recession arrived and the deposed mayor, Kwame Kilpatrick, became a punch line, Detroit was on the upswing. Housing prices soared. G.M. kept its headquarters downtown. The Lions moved back from Pontiac. (All right, forget the Lions.)
But when things go bust, it's impossible to separate ''Detroit,'' the city, from ''Detroit,'' the auto industry. This shorthand does the Big Three no favors. It makes it easy to isolate the damage, as though Detroit can be cut away like a dying man on an ice floe and floated across the river to Ontario.
What people generically call Detroit is actually domestic auto manufacturing, an industry that accomplished a few things in its day. This Detroit made the tanks and aircraft that helped to win World War II. It helped to create the vast middle class. It provided a beacon of freedom and jobs for Southern blacks.
Say what you will about the Big Three, but in my experience Detroiters aren't looking for pity or a handout. They do want fairness and perspective. They've noted how Southern states lured Asian and European automakers with huge tax giveaways, and how those states' representatives now rail against loans for the hometown team.
During a trip home for Christmas, my brother and other auto workers I talked to said they were being demonized for grossing $60,000 a year, enough to maybe own a brick ranch and send a kid to college. They've grown tired of the phrase ''gold-plated benefits,'' which they see as having health insurance and a pension. If that's gold, they ask, what does the bronze plan look like?
Yet other Detroiters frankly acknowledge the mistakes of the Big Three, or see union workers' complacency as part of the problem. To them, the recession is the automakers' latest excuse for 30 years of management fumbles. These guys were sinking for years before anyone heard of Fannie, Freddie or Bernie.
Like most Detroiters, I grew up driving the local product. I laughed and winced recently when Jon Stewart on ''The Daily Show'' skewered and eulogized the A.M.C. Gremlin he once drove. One of my first cars, too, was an orange Gremlin. But like many people of my generation, I began switching to cars designed by Germans and Japanese.
Sometimes I think Detroit could build cars twice as good as Toyotas and Hondas and it wouldn't matter. The Big Three are too far gone; they have broken too many hearts and too many promises. Then I remember Chrysler's Hail Mary plays over the years -- the K-car, the minivan. Americans seem to want to see the Big Three rebound -- if not for the shareholders, then for the employees and their dependents.
For we Detroiters, the industry that made us what we are, gave us jobs, homes, families and a future, has also been the sugar daddy that couldn't be escaped. The same failure of nerve and imagination that left the Big Three behind the curve has affected generations of residents. When the factory beckoned with a high-paying job, why bother going to college or encouraging children to aim higher? For people in government, why try to attract new industries?
Michiganders look at the general plan to rescue Detroit, the industry, and see that it runs counter, at least in part, to the needs of Detroit, the city. Congress hasn't asked the Big Three to crank up new factories in Michigan.
In 1927, The New York Times called Detroiters ''the most prosperous slice of average humanity that now exists or has ever existed.'' If Detroit ever again deserves such lofty accolades, it won't be for screwing cars together. Whether the Big Three survive or not, Detroiters must know it's time to punch out. Fewer of the next generation will walk through factory doors to take their place alongside fathers, brothers and friends.
Now this sounds like heresy. But the sooner the city gets used to the idea, the brighter its prospects. For Detroit to have a future, it has to imagine what the future might look like without cars.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AU1)
FINAL OUT: Right, Tiger Stadium during its partial demolition. The baseball team now plays at the new Comerica Park downtown. Above, Eight Mile Road separates Detroit from its northern suburbs. Below, St. Andrew's Hall, a music mecca.
GHOSTS AND NEW LIFE: From far right, the restored Detroit Institute of Arts
the new MGM Grand hotel and casino
the abandoned Michigan Central Station. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 TOWER OF POWER: G.M.'s headquarters on the riverfront isn't far from meaner streets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI) (pg.AU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); CITIES (77%); ARMIES (74%); DRIVERS LICENSES (72%); WORLD WAR II (64%); BASEBALL (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011



336 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Commodities Could Take Another Scary Ride

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
FOR much of this decade, investing in commodities was akin to striking a backyard oil gusher. But that well ran dry in the fourth quarter.
 Even during the boom years, many advisers recommended using natural resources funds sparingly -- if at all -- in your portfolio.
 ''If you own a typical large-cap core stock fund, you will be exposed to natural resources in companies like Exxon Mobil and Chevron,'' said Jeff Tjornehoj, a fund analyst at Lipper. ''Then ask yourself, do you really need to double down on that?'' 
 It may seem obvious, Mr. Tjornehoj said, but commodities tend to do well when the economy is growing. ''Why would producers be buying more oil, more steel or more copper now?'' he asked.
 The natural resources fund category of Morningstar, the fund tracker, tumbled more than 34 percent in the fourth quarter last year. The category includes two different types of portfolios: funds that own the stocks of commodity producers, and funds that track commodity prices. The two kinds were equally volatile in the last quarter, said Michael Herbst, lead natural resources fund analyst at Morningstar.
 Mr. Herbst said he expected commodity prices to be volatile, though, over the next few months, as investors consider the potential for deflation. Commodities are generally viewed as a hedge against inflation. But if the economy is in for a bout of deflation, a result could be lower commodity prices.
 Mr. Herbst likes the BlackRock Global Resources fund, which focuses on small-capitalization stocks in the oil, coal and natural gas industries. Some 95 percent of the fund is invested in the energy sector. 
 Daniel Rice, the fund's longtime manager, said that after the steep sell-off in energy stocks in the fourth quarter, they were trading as if the average commodity prices over the next three to five years would be roughly what they are today. But he predicts that commodity prices will bounce back.
 For example, Mr. Rice said, oil production companies were trading as if oil would sell for around $45 a barrel, on average, over the next five years, while he predicted that the average price would be around $90. He based this on his expectation that the global economy would grow around 2 percent to 3 percent a year, on average.
 Mr. Rice attributed much of the selling pressure that drove down energy stocks in the fourth quarter to hedge funds, which, he said, were ''overweighted in these stocks, so it was a crowded trade.'' 
 The fund fell 42 percent in the fourth quarter, and lost 53 percent for all of 2008; it has had average annual returns of 8.5 percent over the last five years. One of its share classes waives the front-end load of 5.25 percent. Both the load and no-load classes charge 1.29 percent in annual expenses.
 If investors prefer to bet directly on a wide range of commodity prices, Mr. Herbst recommends the Harbor Commodity Real Return Strategy fund, which started trading in September. It is a lower-cost version of the Pimco Commodity Real Return Strategy fund, and both portfolios are managed by Mihir Worah at Pimco.
 Both funds track the Dow Jones A.I.G. Commodity index, a basket of 19 commodities that is rebalanced each year so that no sector weighs more than one-third of the total. Mr. Worah tracks the index by using swaps, which are a type of derivative.
 This strategy requires him to hold the money that investors put into the fund as collateral for the swaps, and he invests this cash in Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS. These are government bonds that pay a fixed rate of return, with regular adjustments for changes in the Consumer Price Index. 
 ''This fund is hedging two different aspects of inflation, at the wholesale level and at the retail level,'' Mr. Worah said. ''Commodities hedge wheat prices, and TIPS hedge bread prices.''
 Lately, of course, both wholesale and retail prices have gone in only one direction: downward.
 So the portfolio was hit with a double-whammy in the fourth quarter. While the commodities index that it tracks was plunging, bondholders were also selling TIPS, because investors were suddenly more worried about the prospects for deflation.
 MR. WORAH predicted that the economy would see deflation this year. But he said the TIPS market was pricing in deflation for the next eight years, which he thought was overblown. So Mr. Worah said that intermediate-term TIPS had become a relative bargain compared with Treasuries.
 Pimco Commodity Real Return Strategy fell nearly 36 percent in the fourth quarter and 43 percent for all of last year. It has fallen roughly 1 percent a year over the last five years. The Pimco fund has a 5.5 percent front-end load, and charges 1.24 percent in annual expenses. The Harbor fund does not have a sales load, and comes with 0.94 percent in annual expenses.
 Mr. Worah says commodities have recently been living up to their reputation for volatility, and he advises investors to have a long-term horizon.
 ''You shouldn't invest in them now if you will need that money in the next six months,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Chevron tanker truck unloading gas in California. With many investors concerned about possible deflation, commodity prices are expected to fluctuate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED PROUSER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: METALS MARKETS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COAL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



337 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK OBSERVED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Fertility Rites

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GILMORE. 
Jennifer Gilmore is the author of the novel ''Golden Country.''

 BODY:
IT was on Sept. 29, the day the first bailout failed, and I was on the train from Carroll Gardens to the financial district -- an area I normally hit only for Century 21 -- for drugs. Not recreational drugs, vestiges of my waning youth, but the outrageously expensive fertility medications not covered by my insurance. (Thank you, national health care system.) I was setting out for the law office of an extraordinarily charitable woman who no longer needed her drugs and whose far more beneficent insurance plan covered them. I had never met her and she was about to hand over a cooler of these medications in the lobby. 
 Getting off the train at Fulton Street, the unusually blustery wind against me as I walked toward the East River, placed me in the thick of an environment that, as a writer working at home in Brooklyn, I experience only distantly. (The economy has been busted for me and my kind for quite a while.) 
 I heard snippets of conversations I had only read about: murmurs about A.I.G., rumblings over the bailout. On the corner of Broad and Pearl Streets -- the Brooklyn Bridge shining in the distance -- someone warned a fellow pedestrian: ''Watch out; you're going to get hit by that bus!'' 
 ''Who cares?'' the man responded, stepping off the curb.
 As I waited at the security desk for the woman to emerge from the elevator bank, I realized that I knew her age and her entire medical history, but I had no idea who she was. Illness gives you only a diagnosis, and it was our prognosis that we'd been discussing with hundreds of other women on anonymous Internet message boards for infertile New Yorkers.
 We knew what brought us here, the number of in vitro procedures we'd undergone and whether our bodies had responded well to the unthinkable amount of hormones we'd shot into them. We knew the grade of our surgically retrieved eggs, and whether they had been perfect little chickens, fertilizing properly.
 We knew how many of those embryos were transferred back in, and we knew whether we were imperturbable women who waited the nerve-racking two weeks for our blood tests to confirm or deny what we've wanted more than anything -- we had not previously known the meaning of want -- or whether we were completely insane with anticipation and dread and panic, and resorted to early pregnancy tests at home. 
 We conferred about the toll all this medical intervention took on our bodies and the way it was ruining our relationships, and we bickered over the moral implications of outing celebrities seen at New York clinics. Some, though I cannot claim to be among them, threw imaginary baby dust for good luck. We didn't even know our real names, but this woman knew that I was paying for everything out of my increasingly empty pocket. She had been lucky, and now her extra drugs would be mine.
 THIS was not my first time at such an encounter. Several months earlier, I had another generous message board friend. Because she lives on Long Island, she had dispatched her husband to bring me her unneeded medications. We were to meet at Penn Station, right by the Long Island Rail Road. 
 As I waited for him, with police officers in their stiff blue caps and shining badges surveying the commuters, I felt as if I were doing a drug deal true and blue. People rushed by, heading from their jobs in the city back to the Long Island suburbs, discussing their everyday concerns: carpooling, picking up elderly parents, Huntington happy hours. 
 Who, I wondered, would this man be? And how would he behave, handing over 4,000 bucks' worth of hormones that he had shot into his wife so that they could get pregnant when nature just wouldn't cooperate? How uncomfortable would he be? Should I hug him? 
 Exactly at our appointed hour, a man in a navy suit stepped off the escalator from 34th Street and out of a line of men in navy suits, a stuffed Gap bag dangling from his wrist. He handed it over, shook my hand and, with feeling, wished me good luck. 
 I thought of this man as I waited this day, watching women rush out of the lobby elevators -- all dressed for the world, all, I imagined, making more money than God despite the tanked economy, each with 13 children, I was sure, and a house in the country, too -- wondering what the woman would look like. 
 Black, white, Latina, Asian? Like any disease or disorder, infertility is race-blind. It doesn't care a bit about class, either; and I wondered, would she be dressed head to toe in Prada (I have this unsupported idea that every high-powered attorney in this city is outfitted as such)? Or perhaps she would be a secretary in crisply ironed Ann Taylor, or a paralegal dressed in H & M's coarser cuts. 
 I was on my way to teach a writing class; whom did I look like? To me, I had become someone unimaginable, one of those women desperate to have a child, when that isn't the only woman I am. I've had many hopes and ambitions, but each ladybug, every eyelash and every clover, I had been so stupid: I wished for the wrong things; perhaps, I thought, my wishes were all used up.
 A woman emerged from an elevator holding a little cooler. She looked like everyone. She looked like me. I have no idea what she was wearing. Thank you, I said with feeling. I have not felt this understood, this given to, by just one look since I was a child.
 As I headed away from the river, I faced a gathering of men, their suit jackets open and flapping in the wind, expressions frozen with worry. I felt as if I were sneaking off with an illicit organ, someone's heart. 
 I felt exposed -- to this strange September wind and to this woman, but also to the world, which now seems to distinguish me by what I do not have. I had become so vulnerable to the woman I now was, engaged in a scrappy if mismatched fight against time and my past, an uncertain future. 
 And then the strangest thing happened. Walking into the subway and out of the wind, I felt something aside from the throbbing ache and lack that has informed my life for the past few years. That man may have wanted to throw himself in front of a bus -- that sentiment was now the state of our country -- but for the first time in a long while, my own sad want had turned to incredible, soaring gratitude. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DUNNING/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (89%); TRAINS (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); POULTRY (76%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); HEALTH CARE (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



338 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Emerging Markets, Caught in the Storm

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE love affair with emerging markets has turned cold. Stocks everywhere had a horrible year, but the performance in developing economies was especially bad, and the bigger they were, the harder they fell.
 The MSCI Barra BRIC index, comprising companies in the four largest emerging economies -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- lost 60.3 percent in 2008. That compares with 54.5 percent for the broader-based MSCI Emerging Markets index and 38.5 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 If the sellers tried to explain their disenchantment with the BRICs and the rest of the developing world, the best way might be to invoke that most unsatisfying of excuses: ''It's not you, it's me.''
 Many global crises of the past have arisen in emerging markets. Poor political and economic judgment led to excessive debt, shrunken corporate profits, much weaker growth and widening imbalances in fiscal and trade accounts. 
 There are similar troubles today, but they started in the mature Western economies, which are suffering from huge indebtedness, defaults and recession, and ballooning fiscal deficits created by kitchen-sink stimulus plans. In emerging countries, by contrast, economic output continues to grow, albeit more slowly than before, and finances are sound, supported by prudent policies and huge and expanding stockpiles of foreign currency.
 ''The shoe is on the other foot,'' said Mark Mobius, executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management. Recalling the most serious global financial breakdown before this one, he added: ''During the '97-'98 crisis, Asian companies and banks owed U.S. dollars and not the other way around. Now countries have tremendous foreign reserves and are in a much stronger position.''
 Investment advisers and international organizations forecast economic growth to be 6 percent or more this year in China and India and a few percentage points less in Brazil and Russia. In the United States, Japan and Western Europe, the recession is expected to linger for much of the year.
 Jonathan Bell, a manager of the Forward Emerging Markets fund, is interested in differences among the BRICs, not just between them and other markets. He expects long-term growth rates and share-price performance to diverge across the BRICs because of differences in the quality of political leadership. In his view, China and Brazil are very well run, Russia is not and India is somewhere in between.
 The connection among the four has always been tenuous. Their industrial bases, political systems and overall progress varies, but they are populous countries that have narrowed the development gap with wealthier, more mature ones. Those similarities enabled investment firms to package and sell them as ready-for-prime-time emerging markets.
 But not lately. The resilience of the BRICs and other emerging economies has not kept the public from dumping their stocks aggressively. Investment advisers attribute the weakness to a general aversion to risk, which keeps money flowing into assets deemed safe and close to home, like Treasury bonds, and out of anything volatile and far away.
 Beyond that, investors in mature economies need the money. Forced selling by hedge funds and others with heavy losses and unwieldy debt loads is also thought to have played a role. The BRIC markets have been hit especially hard because they are dominated by large, actively traded companies that are easy to sell -- but they also tend to benefit first in a rebound.
 ''When confidence globally comes back, it's the BRICs that will lead the recovery,'' predicted Josephine Jimenez, chief investment officer of Victoria 1522 Investments in San Francisco. Confidence is still hard to glimpse, but as the financial crisis plays out, stocks in the spurned BRIC markets are starting to look desirable again to fund managers and strategists. With global conditions still unsettled, however, some prefer to play hard-to-get and not rush into anything.
 Simon Hallett, co-manager of the Harding Loevner Emerging Markets fund, became cautious last year, sooner than many of his peers, but low valuations after the ''sharp and brutal reversal'' are turning him bullish again.
 ''The risks in the world are in the U.S., U.K. and the fringes of Western Europe,'' he said, concurring with Mr. Mobius. By contrast, ''investors are starting to get paid to take emerging-market risk. I don't think the risks have gone up as much as prices have gone down.''
 Mr. Hallett says he is interested in ''high-quality companies taking their place on the global stage,'' and he finds many of them in the BRIC markets. A prime example is Petroleo Brasileiro, or Petrobras, the Brazilian energy company that has grown fast enough to enter the major leagues and compete against the likes of Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell.
 ''Petrobras is a very good company that happens to be in an emerging market,'' he said. ''It's a world leader, and it's had a tremendous year in terms of finding assets.''
 Petrobras is also a favorite of Ms. Jimenez, who is heavily invested in commodities. Her selections include several mining companies, notably Companhia Vale do Rio Doce known as CVRD, and Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais in Brazil, Polyus Gold in Russia and Zijin Mining and China Molybdenum in China.
 Among her other selections are Banco do Brasil and Trisul, a Brazilian property developer.
 Ms. Jimenez is steering clear of India, whose stocks she finds expensive, but Mr. Hallett has several holdings there. He praised the country's leaders for sound economic management during a difficult time, although he wishes that they would upgrade the country's roads and other infrastructure.
 His favorite stocks include the banks HDFC, Icici and Axis, as well as Hindustan Unilever, a large provider of consumer staples.
 With so much of the world struggling, Mr. Bell, at the Forward fund, is concentrating on defensive sectors like telecommunications and utilities. His largest holdings include China Mobile, the Russian phone service provider Mobile TeleSystems and Bharti Airtel in India.
 ''We don't think things are going to turn around in a V-shaped recovery,'' he said.
 Mr. Mobius said he was ''very positive for markets generally, not just emerging markets,'' but he did express some caution.
 He said he expects the BRICs to attract new money when investors realize just how cheap these markets are and when it becomes clear that economic stimulus plans are starting to work. While he waits, he prefers defensive plays in consumer industries, like Natura Cosmeticos in Brazil and China Green Food, a maker of processed foods.
 Another way to emphasize safety, he said, is to own enormous blue chips, companies ''that will survive and thrive'' through the global crisis. He highlighted China Mobile and a quartet of energy suppliers: PetroChina and Sinopec in China, Lukoil in Russia and, in one more vote of confidence, Petrobras.
 ROBERT ARNOTT, the chairman of Research Affiliates, an investment management firm in Los Angeles, says he expects ''a fast recovery in emerging markets because there's more room for growth.'' He says he is not sure when it will start, however, so the heavy dependence on exports, especially commodities, in the BRIC economies makes him wary enough to advise avoiding stocks there for now.
 A better alternative for him is sovereign and corporate debt. Many issues offer ''juicy yields'' in the low double digits, he said.
 Looking further out, Mr. Arnott becomes more hopeful about BRIC stock markets. He doesn't recommend them for a casual fling, but he thinks they are ideal for a long-term relationship.
 ''Investments made today might be regretted one year from now,'' he said, ''but they won't be regretted five years from now.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Petrobras worker on a deep-sea drilling platform. Petrobras, of Brazil, has become an oil giant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERALDO PERES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (93%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BRIC COUNTRIES (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POLITICS (68%)

COMPANY: BARRA INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



339 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Chief Executives' Pay: How Much Is Too Much?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Should Congress Limit Executive Pay?'' (Economic View, Jan. 4), in which Robert H. Frank said C.E.O. pay caps aren't a good idea, except at companies that have received federal bailout money: 
 One argument for high executive pay is that companies need to attract the best talent from outside. But why not seek and find talent inside the company? Only in exceptional cases need the company look outside; inside is a pool of experience and familiarity unique to each business. 
 Going outside for a chief executive can even be considered a danger sign; it can contribute to lower morale. The focus needs to be on bringing forth talent from within, using a reasonably stepped pay scale.
 Nandarani Evans
 Hilo, Hawaii, Jan. 5
 To the Editor:
 Here is one counterpoint to the rationales for high executive pay discussed in the column: 
 A veteran of many company compensation committees once told me that these panels like to look at the going rate for a chief executive in an industry, then position their own C.E.O. at the top of the third quartile. 
 Though this strategy may not sound wildly generous, consider this: as the old 75th percentile becomes the new 50th, the whole field keeps moving sharply higher in pay. It doesn't take long for things to get silly, as they have. 
 Charlie Brenner
 Lexington, Mass., Jan. 4
 To the Editor:
 Why is it so important to a chief executive's welfare or job satisfaction to earn, say, $20 million a year instead of $15 million, or perhaps $25 million instead of $20 million? What additional gratification can really be derived from such increments? At some point, the practical value in meeting even the most frivolous of material desires approaches zero.
 So I am left with the conclusion that the appeal of these stratospheric salaries is entirely symbolic, a pretext for bragging rights: ''I'm making more than you are!'' 
 Frank Rettenberg
 San Rafael, Calif., Jan. 4

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BAILOUT BONUSES (90%); BAILOUTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HILO, HI, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); HAWAII, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



340 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Off the Charts, in the Wrong Direction

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE devastating declines in most investments last year were relentless and persistent and set off by no single trigger, so it seems wrong to call what happened a crash. It may be fair to say, though, that these worst markets in at least two generations succumbed to the effects of a financial crash diet.
 Credit is the nourishment that keeps markets and economies functioning. Too much of it created bloated, unhealthy expansions in preceding years, and the sharp reduction in its availability in 2008 resulted in plunges in domestic and foreign stocks, real estate, commodities and corporate bonds -- almost any asset not considered free of risk.
 No stock market escaped. The research firm MSCI Barra compiles indexes for 67 markets around the world, and not even one showed a gain last year. Tunisia, with a loss of 8.7 percent, came closest to breaking even. 
 It may seem hard to believe -- and small consolation when fund shareholders open their year-end statements and survey the damage -- but American stocks were among the standouts. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 38.5 percent, compared with a decline of 45.2 percent for an MSCI index of global stocks that excludes the United States.
 Most of the year's decline here was in the fourth quarter, as investors concluded that government efforts to rescue the financial system and economy were insufficient, and insufficiently thought out, to get the job done and prevent a severe recession. The S.& P. 500 fell 22.5 percent in the quarter.
 That sent the domestic equity funds in Morningstar's database to an average loss of 22.6 percent for the quarter and brought the full-year decline to 36.7 percent. The average foreign stock fund fell 21.1 percent during the final quarter and 42.9 percent for the year, dragged down especially by the performance of emerging markets.
 There was at least one place to hide last year, and it became awfully crowded. Treasury securities soared in an overbooked flight to safety as yields descended to their lowest levels in more than a half-century.
 Funds specializing in long-term government bonds had an average gain of 17.5 percent in the fourth quarter and 20.4 percent for all of 2008. It was the best performance by far among the 50 or so asset classes that Morningstar follows, other than funds that bet on a declining stock market, and one of the few that ended ahead for the year.
 The extreme market action and the uncertainties hanging over the economy and the financial system have made strategists and portfolio managers more circumspect than usual when issuing forecasts. Getting a handle on 2009 is tricky because they are still trying to make sense of 2008.
 ''No one has ever seen these kinds of readings,'' said James Swanson, chief investment strategist for MFS, the Boston fund manager.
 He and other advisers highlighted one reading that would be encouraging under normal conditions: the waves of urgent selling have left stocks remarkably cheap by longtime benchmarks.
 ''Every single traditional measure shows that the stock market is ridiculously undervalued,'' said Jonathan Golub, who runs an investment strategy firm, Golub Market Insights. 
 Mr. Golub is reluctant to proclaim the market a bargain, however, because growing concern about the most insidious economic plague -- deflation -- could keep the public from investing, borrowing or spending.
 ''The deflationary psychology hasn't played through yet,'' he said. ''Once you get into that negative spiral, it's extraordinarily difficult to break it.''
 Investors often bank on the future as soon as they see a glimmer of clarity and hope, so stocks may rally when the economic backdrop offers little reason for it. James Margard, chief investment officer of Rainier Investment Management, expects another expedition up the wall of worry this year.
 ''Unemployment will get worse, we will continue to see more bankruptcies, and the consumer will continue to be stressed,'' he said, but he predicted that the market would be increasingly upbeat nonetheless.
 Mr. Margard highlighted ''certain signs of encouragement'' already, including the improved affordability of housing and the savings for motorists now buying gasoline for a fraction of its summer 2008 cost. The impact of near-zero interest rates after Federal Reserve cuts should help, too, he said, along with the hundreds of billions the Treasury has spent or will spend to stimulate the economy.
 ''There hasn't been a recession in modern history where the markets didn't bottom in the middle of it,'' he said.
 The middle of a recession is where Mr. Margard expects certain stocks to come into their own, including the Apollo Group, a provider of adult education, and a consultancy -- Watson Wyatt Worldwide -- whose services should be in demand among nervous, befuddled employers.
 Two companies in the railroad industry, Norfolk Southern and Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies, or Wabtec, should do well ''if we're within a year of the end of the recession,'' he said.
 As it turns out, we're no longer within a year of the start of the recession. The National Bureau of Economic Research determined only last month that the economy was in recession -- and that it began in December 2007.
 Bob Turner, chief investment officer of Turner Investment Partners, is willing to bet that times have been hard enough for long enough to make it worthwhile to return to stocks. He thinks the market has already hit bottom and that, if the historical pattern holds, it will bounce about 40 percent from the low.
 HE recommends ''high-quality growth companies at bargain-basement prices,'' like the tech blue chips Apple, Qualcomm and Google. He also likes several industries -- retailing, homebuilding, financial services and semiconductor manufacturing -- that are highly sensitive to economic conditions and are thus potentially big beneficiaries of a recovery.
 Robert Arnott, chairman of the asset management firm Research Affiliates, is far less confident about the stock market's prospects. He warns of a further decline and sees a better buying opportunity in 6 to 12 months.
 While he is avoiding stocks, he finds investment-grade corporate bonds a worthwhile middle ground for investors looking to assume a bit of risk. With recent yields roughly six percentage points above those of Treasury bonds, he wondered, ''How on earth could they have defaults large enough to make that 6 percent spread reasonable?''
 For his part, Mr. Swanson at MFS suggests taking the long view. With the outlook for the economy and corporate earnings so iffy, he says that he doesn't know if stocks are a short-term bargain, but that they look cheap to him for anyone who can hold on for, say, a decade. He called stocks and high-quality corporate bonds ''two glaring opportunities to ride out the storm.''
 The short-term outlook for some investors is so up in the air in this perilous economy that they don't have the luxury of considering the long term, Mr. Golub said. 
 ''If you have a cyclical job, you don't have the ability to take on a lot of stock market and economic risk, and you should be much more conservative,'' he advised.
 Patient investors with more secure circumstances and an appetite for risk, meanwhile, stand a good chance of getting fat again after such a lean year.
 ''If you're a tenured professor, a physician at a hospital or a fireman, you should be looking at these opportunities in the market and think: 'This is fantastic, I can buy cheap inventory. Time is on my side.' '' Mr. Golub said. ''Your goal should be taking the most risk you can as long as you can survive the worst possible outcome.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A strategist says a railroad stock like Norfolk Southern may benefit if the recession's end is near. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM ROBINSON) (pg.BU22) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM ROBINSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%)

COMPANY: BARRA INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



341 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Those 'Gap Years' Aren't Just for Students

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
DENNIS R. SINAR, 61, a doctor from Washington, N.C., is quick to explain why he took a yearlong break from his job. 
 ''I was pretty burned out after practicing medicine for 26 years,'' said Dr. Sinar, a gastroenterologist and professor of medicine at East Carolina University in Greenville, N.C. ''I needed a recharge.''
 So he took a ''gap year,'' from July 2007 to June 2008, to explore things like stone masonry, antique restoration, archaeology and traditional Eastern medicine, in locations spanning from Alaska to Nepal to Romania. ''I think everyone in his heart of hearts has some things they have always wanted to do but for one reason or other never does,'' Dr. Sinar said. 
 Taking a break from work is an excellent way for adults to segue into a new career or invigorate an old one, said Holly Bull, president of the Center for Interim Programs in Princeton, N.J., which sets up gap-year programs. The group works mainly with college-age students, but it has also served older adults since it was formed 28 years ago, Ms. Bull said. In recent years, midcareer breaks have been garnering more interest, she said.
 A report on adult gap years released in July 2008 by Mintel International, a market research company, described the potential American market for gap years as a ''sleeping giant.'' And now, with job cuts on the rise, the newly unemployed may find the timing for a gap year to be ideal.
 Planning a gap year ''takes a little more preparation for adults,'' Ms. Bull said. Concerns about finances and job prospects are more common, she said. 
 Costs range widely, depending in part on location and the types of programs. Ms. Bull estimates that an average gap year runs $6,000 to $15,000, or less ''if you keep travel down and do low-cost programs.'' Of course, that does not include financial obligations like a mortgage, although some people can rent out their homes to finance their year away. 
 You don't have to be wealthy to finance a gap year, said Susan Griffith, author of ''Gap Years for Grown-Ups.'' If a schoolteacher were to rent out his or her home for six months, ''the rent would go a long way to paying their daily expenses in a developing country like Cambodia or Bolivia,'' she said.
 Dr. Sinar limited expenses by working for room and board on some programs. In Nepal, home stays with local families were arranged, which helped to lower costs.
 The entire year does not have to be spent away from home, either. Dr. Sinar was away about seven months during his year off, which included extended stays at home between programs. That schedule made the experience easier for his partner, Kathryn, who also visited him on location several times. 
 ''A gap year is a challenge for the older individual to step out of a comfort zone and take a risk; I enjoyed that side most,'' said Dr. Sinar, who kept a daily blog about his experience. His time studying Eastern medicine ''reaffirmed the reasons I went into health care'' said Dr. Sinar, who returned to practice medicine at his old job, although he works fewer days. ''I use those experiences to provide more compassionate care,'' he added. ''And I listen better than I did before.'' 
 By contrast, Lee Attix of South Portland, Me., 52, used skills gained during a gap year more than 10 years ago to switch careers from sales and marketing into work focused on wildlife. ''I wanted more than just a paycheck and doing a job,'' he said. 
 His gap-year volunteer experiences included trail maintenance in Vermont, a stint at a farm in Arkansas devoted to ending world hunger, and study of endangered hawks in Utah. It paid off. He was offered paid seasonal work in loon conservation. Today he is a manager for BioDiversity Research Institute, a small nonprofit in Gorham, Me. Taking a gap year ''was the best thing I ever did career-wise,'' he said.
 Tari Marcou, 54, of Hamilton, Ohio, was working as a program coordinator for an adult leadership program at Ohio State University several years ago when she realized she needed a midcareer break. Her children were grown, and she was able to sell her house for a profit. She gave her dog and her furniture to her daughter for safe-keeping and started a gap year that included time at a meditation retreat in France, organic farms in Italy and a wildlife awareness center in South Africa.
 After returning to the United States, she was approached about a new job at Ohio State ''for a sizable increase in salary'' she said. Instead of pursuing the job, she parlayed her passion for travel into a new career by becoming a certified tour director. ''I feel like I finally found where I need to be,'' she said. 
 Dennis J. Garritan, chairman of the department of leadership and human capital management at New York University, said a gap-year experience could be worthwhile for employees and companies.
 For employees, ''investing in themselves and enhancing skill set is a strategic move that will pay dividends throughout their career,'' Dr. Garritan said. He added that returning employees feel refreshed and have given thought to their careers. 
 For companies, offering unpaid leaves makes good sense for recruitment and retention of talented employees, and is a more creative long-term way to weather the economic downturn than layoffs. 
 BUT Dr. Garritan cautions that those returning from a gap year and looking for a new job could run into problems. Some companies may perceive these prospective hires as turnover risks. He also suggests that gap-year workers who intend to switch careers keep the door open to returning to the same profession: if an accountant hoping to become a chef goes to Paris to study culinary arts, he should plan to devote a little time to learning the European accounting system or to doing accounting work for a nonprofit. 
 ''But my hope is that this takes off,'' Dr. Garritan said. ''We're all thinking, 'What's my next act?' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Dennis R. Sinar, a gastroenterologist, with a patient in Greenville, N..C. Dr. Sinar took a career break to explore several interests around the globe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOBAL PEREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (72%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (65%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); ARCHAEOLOGY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); NEPAL (91%); ROMANIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



342 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE ISLAND PATCHOGUE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: For Immigrant Families, A Killing Raises Vigilance

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN. 
E-mail: theisland@nytimes.com

 BODY:
PATCHOGUE
SEVERAL blocks from the modest, candlelit shrine that marks the sorry spot where Marcelo Lucero, the Ecuadorean immigrant who the police say was accosted and stabbed by a pack of teenagers on a racist rampage, died of his wounds, Pablo Matute hoisted a trayload of votive candles much like those flickering at the shrine.
Then he quietly distributed them on the tables at Mangia Mangia, the Main Street restaurant where, in a formal tie and apron, he has worked as a busboy since November, the same month Mr. Lucero, a friend of his parents and a familiar face in this neighborhood, was attacked. 
''I don't know how someone can kill someone else just because they are from a different race,'' said Pablo, 16, a junior at Patchogue-Medford High School, the school attended by the gang arrested in the ambush of Mr. Lucero. Pablo was not acquainted with those seven teenagers, but he does have friends at school who knew them, and hence he has heard accounts of how an act of random mayhem became an act of fatal violence: when Mr. Lucero did not surrender to the beating, it escalated to another level. ''Like he made them mad because he fought back,'' Pablo said.
Submission to their bullying had been the desired result. ''Violence like that is just so stupid,'' he said with a shrug. ''I know it made my parents sad and very mad.'' And more vigilant about his whereabouts after dark: busboys sometimes work late, and even though their apartment is just around the corner from the restaurant, they worry. After all, the alley where Mr. Lucero, who was 37, died is not far away, either.
Like his parents, who moved from Gualaceo, Ecuador (the same hometown as Mr. Lucero), to New York three decades ago in search of steady work (his mother cooks for a local Head Start program, and his father drives a delivery truck for a florist), Pablo is an American citizen. And a citizen of Patchogue where, he said, he knows most everybody in the village and had always felt safe. And welcome. ''If you really think about it, the first people who lived in this country were American Indians, and that means the rest of us are basically all aliens. Or that we are all the same.''
He said he still feels safe here ''except maybe at night on weekends.''
Pablo got back to his predinner assignment, creating a pleasing ambience in the dining room. One votive candle for every table. Each candle strategically placed, much like those at the shrine down the street.
He said this is a job he is grateful to have -- he and his fellow busboy, Jose Granados, also 16 and also an American citizen, although of Salvadoran descent, intend to go to college to study mechanics. Both said their boss, Angelo Galeotafiore, treats them well. No condescension; no hint of anti-immigrant bias; no racism, or racist jokes, in his kitchen. ''He's good to everyone,'' Pablo said. ''He teaches us the right way to do things.''
And why not, said Mr. Galeotafiore, 37, whose father, Carmine, immigrated to Brooklyn from Italy in 1965 and has presided over Patchogue's signature Italian butcher shop, the Del Fiore Italian Pork Store, for 38 years. ''My father was an immigrant with a seventh-grade education who came here from Tufino, Italy, because there were no opportunities for him to better himself there,'' Mr. Galeotafiore said, taking a break from his duties as chef at Mangia Mangia, which opened in 2005. He views the path taken by the Matute and Granados families as not so different from that blazed by his own parents.
''What if Patchogue had closed its doors to my father? What if it had discriminated against his dream?'' Mr. Galeotafiore said. ''The Marcelo incident makes me sick to my stomach; I'm afraid to talk in absolutes, but I'm sure it's not who we are as a community. I'm an immigrant's son, and like the rest of this family, I'm invested in this community.''
So Carmine Galeotafiore, with help from his son Lorenzo, still runs the Pork Store and still hand-shapes its famed mozzarella balls. ''That seems to be one business that's recession-proof,'' said Angelo Galeotafiore, a 1995 graduate of the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park. He chose to branch out, first with a gourmet pizzeria opened in 1997, then with Mangia Mangia and most recently with Muchachos, a fast-fresh-food Mexican spot that opened in October.
Assisted by a new generation of immigrants -- his line cooks, Rodolfo Diaz and Arsenio Fernandez, are from Ecuador and the Dominican Republic, respectively -- Mr. Galeotafiore seems intent on reviving Patchogue's reputation as a melting pot rather than a hot spot for racist division. But for the time being, safe rides home after the night shift ends are available to the staff members; Mr. Galeotafiore considers it a service he owes them.
He just wishes the courtesy was extended out of something besides his awareness of an undercurrent of fear that has nagged immigrants and their offspring since Mr. Lucero's violent demise -- Pablo pedals his bike extra fast after dark; Jose said that, as a precaution, he never ventures out alone at night.
''A lot of my staff come from countries where there is very little opportunity for them to earn a living, same as what my father went through in his time,'' Mr. Galeotafiore said. ''Take it from me, there's no way to survive in this business without help from these beautiful people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HELPING ALONG: Pablo Matute, right, with his boss, Angelo Galeotafiore, owner of Mangia Mangia in Patchogue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011



343 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Three Who Steered Away From the Cliff

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
WHEN the stock market tanks, mutual fund managers prove their mettle. After all, neither investing in Amazon during the tech bubble nor in Exxon Mobil during the oil boom required great resourcefulness or a well-tuned strategy. But it was helpful to have both qualities in the meat-grinder market of 2008 -- not to mention a dollop of luck.
The managers of three of the better-performing funds in the fourth quarter found refuge in far-flung places and divergent strategies.
One invests only in Japan. Another aims to achieve gains by betting partly on the likelihood that mergers will close. And the third uses computers and statistics to profit from short-term mispricings in stocks. Whatever their strategy, their shareholders benefited in the quarter, receiving some respite from crashing markets around the world. 
No Gain, but Limited Loss
The Nikkei 225, the Japanese stock index, fell 42 percent in 2008 -- even steeper than the 38.5 percent plunge by the Standard & Poor's 500. It was the worst performance in the 58-year history of the Japanese benchmark. And while Taizo Ishida, manager of Matthews Japan, did not make money for investors, he limited his fund's losses to 9.7 percent for the quarter and 28 percent for the year.
Many managers stick to the weightings of the indexes that serve as their performance benchmarks. Thus, a Japan fund might keep 10 percent of its money in energy stocks because they also represent that much of the Nikkei.
But Mr. Ishida, who is based in San Francisco, regularly strays from his index -- in his case, MSCI Japan -- and thus lately shied away from sectors like utilities. Unlike some managers of Japan-only funds, he also loads up on small- and mid-capitalization stocks.
''I'm sector-agnostic,'' he said. ''If I like the company, I put it in the portfolio. And my fund is biased toward big themes.''
Among his themes is the aging of Japan -- about one in five Japanese are 65 or older, according to the country's national statistics bureau. Mr. Ishida said he reasoned that older people long for companionship and thus acquire pets, so he accumulated a big stake in Unicharm Petcare, which makes pet supplies.
Similarly, as people age in Japan and elsewhere, Mr. Ishida expects them to turn to more health care. So he gravitated to medical device companies like Sysmex and Terumo. But he shunned Japanese drug makers because he rates them as costly compared with their counterparts in the United States.
''Why pay 15 times earnings for a big Japanese pharma,'' Mr. Ishida asks, ''when you can buy Johnson & Johnson at 10 times earnings?''
The fund, which carries a 1.23 percent expense ratio, has had an uneven record. It has performed well lately -- Mr. Ishida took over two years ago -- but it has been erratic over longer periods. Over the five years that ended Dec. 31, it lost 3.5 percent, annualized, putting it among the worst-performing international funds for that stretch. But over 10 years, it fared better, with an annualized return of 2.4 percent, 1.1 percentage points better than its peers.
Assessing the Deals
Like Mr. Ishida, Mario J. Gabelli, of the Gabelli ABC fund, does not emphasize whether a stock appears in an index or represents a particular sector when he makes picks for the portfolio.
Mr. Gabelli earned his reputation as a value investor -- someone who tries to find stocks trading for less than his estimate of their intrinsic worth. Value managers typically seek out-of-favor offerings and hold them for a long time. But with Gabelli ABC, Mr. Gabelli wants a lot of small, quick gains that can add up to a stable return.
''This fund is designed to always be up,'' he said. ''And we're willing to give up upside to do that. It's not going to be 20 percent in a year. We didn't quite make our goal this year, but I'm not complaining about losing a toe when other people lost their feet.''
The fund was down 1.2 percent for the quarter and 2.6 percent for the year.
One of Mr. Gabelli's tactics is scooping up acquisition targets. Once a deal is announced, he assesses whether it will close. If he thinks that it will, he buys. That led him to Anheuser-Busch after InBev of Belgium made a bid of $65 a share. Uncertainty about the deal's prospects stemmed from resistance in Missouri, Anheuser-Busch's home state. InBev sweetened its offer, and Gabelli ABC pocketed a profit.
Not every deal closes, of course, and the fund can suffer as a result. Mr. Gabelli accumulated shares of Yahoo after Microsoft offered about $45 billion for it. In his view, Yahoo made a mistake in saying no: ''Microsoft knocks on the door with an all-cash bid. All they had to do is say, 'Give us another buck.' '' Instead, Yahoo spurned its suitor, and its shares have sunk with the market since.
Gabelli ABC zips in and out of many stocks. The fund's annual turnover ratio is about 200 percent, meaning it holds a stock, on average, for about six months. The typical fund turns about 80 percent of its portfolio a year.
Frenzied Trading
Mr. Gabelli's trading looks quiet next to the frenzied style of JPMorgan Highbridge Statistical Market Neutral. With a turnover ratio of nearly 400 percent, it effectively flips its entire portfolio four times a year.
Whippet-fast reactions are part of its quantitative strategy. Statistical arbitrageurs like Evan L. Dick, the senior portfolio manager, use computers to spot short-term pricing anomalies and try to exploit them quickly. Sometimes, they are in and out of a stock within a day. In effect, they skitter around trying to grab nickels and dimes, while other investors pray for dollars.
The fund both buys shares in companies and sells them short, which is a way of making money on stock drops.
In 2008, Highbridge managed to deliver positive returns even as the rest of the market dropped. It had a total return of 3.2 percent for the quarter and 10 percent for the year. It had an expense ratio of 1.95 percent.
Managers of quantitative funds typically do not reveal much about their investing formulas, and the Highbridge group is little different in this respect. Mr. Dick and Alain M. Sunier, the portfolio manager, would not say much about exactly where they found values in the fourth quarter, though they were happy to talk about the advantage of computers over humans in buying and shorting stocks.
''A human could've had a fight with his wife,'' Mr. Dick said. ''Humans forget things.''
Computers are hardly infallible, but he said he trusts his machines enough that his mother invests in the fund.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Matthews Japan fund, led by Taizo Ishida, likes to venture beyond the index that serves as its performance benchmark. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Alain Sunier of JPMorgan Highbridge Statistical Market Neutral. It trades often, with a turnover rate of nearly 400 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 At the Gabelli ABC fund, Mario J. Gabelli studies acquisition targets as possible candidates for investment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.BU23) CHARTS: FARING BETTER IN A BAD MARKET: Three funds that outperformed the overall market and their peer groups of stock funds -- in the fourth quarter. (Sources: Morningstar, Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BENCHMARKING (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (83%); MERGERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); STATISTICS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); PETS (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); MEDICAL DEVICES (60%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); JAPAN FUND (54%); UNICHARM PETCARE CORP (51%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (60%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS453910 PET & PET SUPPLIES STORES (51%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011



344 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; DINING MAPLEWOOD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: One Man, One Woman and a Lovely Place

BYLINE: By DAVID CORCORAN

 BODY:
AS she cleared away our appetizer plates, Tonian Irving -- the unruffled, hyperarticulate one-woman band who manages to wait every single table at Luke's Kitchen -- smiled cheerfully and told us, ''I'd like a detailed report on what can be improved so I can send it up to Corporate.''
 Her little joke. Corporate would be the one-man band in the rear of the house: Rod Hernandez, the chef and owner of this delectable little bring-your-own in downtown Maplewood. You'll see him in the open kitchen -- a compact whirligig of a guy in white chef's tunic, presiding over a stove with 10 burners, each one dancing with high blue flame. 
 Mr. Hernandez, a 45-year-old veteran of the Rainbow Room and Lutece in Manhattan, opened Luke's 15 months ago in the storefront that had been American Fare. (Luke is his 5-year-old son.) A onetime mortgage broker, Mr. Hernandez says he has been agreeably surprised that diners keep coming back despite the foul economic weather. 
 He needn't be. Even if Ms. Irving's heartfelt welcome didn't melt your mood, Luke's would have you at the amuse-bouche: on both of our visits, a complex and intriguing mouthful of brandade (pureed, herb-infused fish and potatoes) in a crisp won-ton wrapper over a little pool of sherry-and-lobster vinaigrette.
 The happy surprises do not let up. Appetizers here are terrific, with deft, original touches that let you know there's a sharp culinary mind at work. Smoked salmon came with pale-green sweet-pea pancakes and a palate-awakening yogurt-and-cucumber salad. Fish soup tasted like Marseille, with its saffron-and-tomato broth, and it gained textural interest from cellophane noodles. 
 Onion tart couldn't have been more tender or full-flavored; Mr. Hernandez sweats the onions for two full hours to bring out every isotope of sweetness. Shrimp took on an insistent but well-modulated heat when roasted under a mantle of black pepper. Only goat-cheese salad was thrown out of balance by an overdose of candy-sweet spiced cashews.
 I've heard complaints that the service can be slow -- understandable, given the size of the staff -- and on a busy Saturday night, with most of the 32 seats full by 8 p.m., at least half an hour passed between appetizer and main course. But we didn't have a curtain to make, just conversation. And Luke's is a lovely place for it -- neat, understated and pleasantly dim, with original art on the wheat-colored walls. When entrees arrived, we were ready for them, not famished. With a single exception, they didn't disappoint.
 That exception was rack of lamb, done in by an overdose of salt. But roast chicken -- a dish so often dry and underflavored that I've about given up ordering it -- had beautifully crisped skin and a juicy interior with the free-range taste of real chicken. Pork chop Oaxaca was bathed in an unctuous mole sauce composed of tomato, Mexican spices and (yes) strawberry and chocolate.
 Seafood entrees were outstanding, especially roasted sea scallops whose top surfaces were crunchy and faintly sweet; and the sole-like John Dory, perfectly cooked to bring out its mild, nutty flavor. The Japanese sea bass called suzuki had a meatier texture and a more assertive flavor.
 Desserts didn't disappoint, either. I particularly liked a shortbread of preserved lemon, white chocolate and cranberry with a nifty house-made goat-cheese ice cream; and bananas with white chocolate in phyllo dough, their sweetness offset by a chocolate-chili sauce that left a spicy afterglow.
 In the French manner, the prix here is fixe: $38 for three courses, with numerous and forgivable supplements for high-end ingredients like truffles and John Dory. ''His philosophy,'' Ms. Irving said of her boss, ''is that 80 percent of cooking is done at the grocery store.'' If so, the other 40 percent is intangibles like talent and brio, commitment and originality. And if that adds up to 120 percent, that's what Maplewood is getting from this fine restaurant. 
 Luke's Kitchen
 175 Maplewood Avenue
 Maplewood 
 (973) 763-4005
 lukeskitchen.com
 VERY GOOD
 THE SPACE A downtown storefront, small and narrow but comfortable and tastefully decorated. Everything is on one level, but the restroom is not wheelchair-accessible.
 THE CROWD Well-heeled locals, casually dressed.
 THE STAFF Exactly one server, charming and in complete control. Still, service can feel leisurely.
 THE BAR Bring your own wine.
 THE BILL $38 for three courses, with supplements of $7 to $12 for many entrees. Discover, MasterCard and Visa accepted.
 WHAT WE LIKE Onion tart, smoked salmon, roasted shrimp, fish soup; chicken, suzuki, scallops, John Dory, pork chop Oaxaca; bananas in phyllo, chocolate lava cake, shortbread, all ice creams.
 IF YOU GO Dinner: Tuesday to Saturday, 5:30 to 10 p.m. Reservations recommended (necessary on weekends). On-street parking is very limited; a map showing lots is at maplewoodonline.com/alliance/parking.php.
 Reviewed Jan. 11, 2009 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BRIO: At Luke's Kitchen, scallops, top left, are served with cepe mashed potatoes and asparagus.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); TEXAS, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



345 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; FRUGAL DESTINATION OF THE YEAR; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: 5. Las Vegas: Bargain Hunters Can Go All In

BYLINE: By MATT GROSS

 BODY:
FIVE years ago, a good day for Meital Grantz went like this: Sell $10,000 worth of glitzy women's wear (Chloe, Stella, Missoni) at her boutique on the Las Vegas Strip, Talulah G. Then, a group dinner at Le Cirque or Circo, both in the five-star Bellagio, followed by wild times at Light (with its European-style bottle service), with everyone eventually winding up at a friend's pad for yet more after-hours revelry.
 ''Money was not an issue at all,'' said the 34-year-old Ms. Grantz, sounding a little incredulous at the extravagance of the past. 
 Times, as they say, have changed. No other city in America has been hit by the economic crisis quite as dramatically as Las Vegas, where more than two decades of outsize boom have turned into a big-time bust. Unemployment hit 7.9 percent in November, and Clark County's foreclosure rate is one of the nation's highest. 
 Sin City's lucky streak, it seems, has gone sour.
 But for frugal travelers, Las Vegas is, suddenly, a sure bet. The city now has some 141,000 hotel rooms, and occupancy rates are down 15 percent, according to Dr. R. Keith Scher, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. So hotels at all ends of the price spectrum are offering outrageous deals. 
 ''You can stay at the Trump that was just built here for 99 bucks now,'' said Anthony Curtis, the founder of LasVegasAdvisor.com, a booking site that tracks deals (and offers further discounts to its members, who pay $37 a year). ''You can stay at Wynn Las Vegas for well under $200.''
 Similar five-star hotels in New York or Los Angeles, he added, might cost four times that. 
 At the low end, he said, are downtown hotels like the newly renovated El Cortez, where rooms were going for as little as $14 a night. Even rental-car companies are getting into the spirit, he said, with some cars going for $8.95 a day on Hotwire.com.
 The jaw-dropping bargains extend to restaurants as well, with culinary hotspots like L'Atelier de Joel Robuchon and Craftsteak serving multicourse tasting menus (langoustine fritters, diver scallops) for $75. 
 At happy hour, Red Square, in the Mandalay Bay, is throwing in a free ounce of caviar (with the fixings) with two martinis. Granted, those drinks will run you $13 or $14 a pop -- which could buy you two $6.99 steak-and-beer dinners at the Ellis Island Casino and Brewery -- but still, how often do you get free caviar?
 Need a show to go with your dinner? Cirque du Soleil is now discounting tickets for the first time ever, according to Jack Kenn, the vice president and general manager of the troupe's Las Vegas shows. 
 ''As we get deeper into this debacle,'' he said, ''we're finding that we have to open up more seats.'' Which means as much as 50 percent off on extravaganzas like Ka if you book a package through Travelzoo.com.
 These frantic price cuts, welcome as they seem, can also be a bit worrying. After all, is a half-empty, half-price, down-on-its-luck Vegas still fun?
 Worry not, said Abby Tegnelia, a former editor in chief of 944 Vegas, a party magazine.
 ''The last huge party I went to was definitely a little bit scaled down,'' Ms. Tegnelia said, referring to a recent outing to the nightclub Tao. ''Definitely more vodka, less champagne, because the vodka lasts longer. 
 ''But it was the most fun that I've ever had. It's almost like they're making up for it -- you know, everyone was dancing, huge groups of people, everyone was really excited, all the best V.I.P. tables are flooded with people who enjoy going out again.''
 More fun, fewer crowds and for less money? Sounds like everybody wins. (Just don't tell the house.) 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A listing on Jan. 11 about 44 Places to Go in 2009 included several errors.
 The entry about Las Vegas (No. 5) misspelled the surname of the director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. He is Dr. R. Keith Schwer, not Scher.
 The Dakar, Senegal, entry (No. 10) misspelled part of the name of a cultural center. It is the Institut Francais Leopold Sedar Senghor, not Sedor.
 The Monument Valley entry (No. 27) located the park incorrectly. It is in northeast Arizona, with a small section extending into Utah; it is not in northwest Arizona.
 And the Stockholm entry (No. 35, on the Web site) misspelled the surname of a Finnish architect and designer. He is Alvar Aalto, not Alto. 
A listing on Jan. 11 about 44 Places to Go in 2009 included several errors.
 The entry about Las Vegas (No. 5) misspelled the surname of the director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. He is Dr. R. Keith Schwer, not Scher.
 The Dakar, Senegal, entry (No. 10) misspelled part of the name of a cultural center. It is the Institut Francais Leopold Sedar Senghor, not Sedor.
 The Monument Valley entry (No. 27) located the park incorrectly. It is in northeast Arizona, with a small section extending into Utah; it is not in northwest Arizona.
 And the Stockholm entry (No. 35, on the Web site) misspelled the surname of a Finnish architect and designer. He is Alvar Aalto, not Alto. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Las Vegas has been buffeted by the economic crisis, and deals are plentiful along the Strip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) MAP: Las Vegas, Nevada 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (72%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); BEER & ALE (64%); BREWERIES (60%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: HOTWIRE INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (98%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



346 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Away From the Herd

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHERRINGHAM. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
MY father was British and my mother French. As a child, I learned to think about things from multiple perspectives, which was good preparation for what would become the global village.
 I obtained an undergraduate degree in economics from Paris University and a graduate degree in business from HEC Paris. In graduate school, I also studied in London and New York as part of an exchange program with the London Business School and New York University.
 I found a sense of personal freedom and opportunity in the United States that I didn't feel in Europe. I moved here after school and started my career in Los Angeles with a program sponsored by the French government. It was designed to entice American manufacturers to start businesses in France. 
 The job didn't pay much. It was basically a business development job. I was 23. I was a bit intimidated at first, but it didn't take long for me to become comfortable. That job gave me a lot of confidence.
 When my contract with the French government was near its end, I was talking to a company that was about to locate a plant in eastern France to build turbochargers for automobiles. One of the executives expressed frustration in dealing with a French official about the project. I suggested that I could help him out, so he hired me for that task. 
 After that, I moved to an oil company. I noticed that many manufacturing and oil companies were run by engineers, so I knew that they wouldn't be places where I could prosper. I got a call from a recruiter about a position at a bank that, at the time, was called Home Savings and was in Los Angeles. 
 I went for the interview and attempted to persuade the interviewer that I could walk on water. After a while, he looked at me and said, ''That's all well and good, but don't you think your lack of banking experience might be an issue in your attempt to become head of corporate planning for our bank?'' 
 I said: ''Well, I can tell you one thing. If you hire me, I bring no preconceived notions.'' 
 He later told me that's why he hired me.
 I was promoted to senior vice president and director of financial services there, which gave me an introduction to the entire industry. After that, I worked at three other California banks.
 In 2003 I joined what was then People's Bank in Connecticut, as chief financial officer. After living in Southern California for 27 years, my first winter in the Northeast was a shock. I thought that by moving in March I'd be O.K., but there was a freak snowstorm in April. I had no idea what to do. I scraped the snow off the windshield with a credit card.
 The bank wasn't performing well when I joined. I was able to help turn it around by refocusing on the core businesses. I thought our job was primarily to raise deposits from local communities where we have branches and, in turn, lend the money to local businesses. If that's done well, it can be very profitable. 
 I took over as president and chief executive after John Klein, who had been C.E.O., died of cancer last January. It was a difficult experience because we were friends as well as colleagues. I had worked hand in hand with him, even as he was dealing with his disease. The first six months after John's death, I performed both the C.E.O. and C.F.O. jobs, which are vastly different.
 It's an interesting time to be in banking. I never followed the herd, so we're not experiencing the same challenges as many banks. We're one of the largest New England banking organizations, with branches in six states. We never issued one subprime loan. When the government issued the Troubled Assets Relief Program, in which it would buy troubled assets of banks, we never even applied. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PHILIP SHERRINGHAM (PHOTOGRAPH BY J.J. MISENCIK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (68%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (64%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF ZANZIBAR (51%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF VIRGINIA BEACH (51%); PEOPLE'S BANK & TRUST CO (51%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ELKTON INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



347 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: Daddy's Home, and a Bit Lost

BYLINE: By PEG TYRE

DATELINE: Darien, Conn. 

 BODY:
 SCOTT BERRY has always been a morning person. For years he would wake up at 5 a.m., shower, shave and, tamping down a twinge of regret, plant quiet kisses on his two sleeping children and his wife, before backing his BMW out of the driveway.
 As the family breadwinner, he worked long hours at his job as a technology analyst for a boutique investment firm in Manhattan. The demands of his work and the substantial commute from his home in Darien meant he rarely saw Samantha, 8, and Max, 7, before his wife, Tracey, had them in their pajamas and ready for bed. 
 Then in December 2007, Mr. Berry, 49, lost his job. He immediately looked for a new position but found opportunities puzzlingly elusive. In mid-2008 came the rout on Wall Street. ''The good news is, I don't feel singled out for unemployment,'' he said, running his hand through his light-brown hair. 
 But his plan for his next job -- as an analyst in a venture capital firm or as an executive at a start-up -- has been deferred. So Scott and Tracey Berry have faced a complex series of choices about work, money and the roles and responsibilities each would assume in the family. Their goals: to keep their domestic economy from mirroring the national one -- and to stay married. 
 As unemployment has hit a 16-year high and Wall Street shakes off tens of thousands of jobs, affluent couples in the New York area find their families suddenly in flux. It's not only the high-flying income and the attendant abundance that have evaporated. For many couples, it's also the assumption of what their marriages would look like; the traditional model -- executive husband and stay-at-home wife -- may be a little dated, or unworkable. 
 One mother in TriBeCa, who is married, at least for now, to a Wall Street executive, put it rather bluntly: ''My job was to run the household and the children's lives,'' she said. ''His job is to provide us with a nice lifestyle.'' But his bonus has disappeared, and his annual pay has dropped to $150,000 from $800,000 a year. ''Let me just say this,'' she said, ''I'm still doing my job.'' 
 The Berrys' marriage isn't as fraught, and they were never the kind of couple who lived bonus to bonus -- which may explain why they, unlike most newly unemployed Wall Street families, are willing to open their lives to a reporter. In good times, they saved, set up college funds for their children and paid off their mortgage. Aside from a modest car loan, they don't carry any debt. Despite their year of little work, their 11-year marriage seems as solid as their spacious five-bedroom Colonial home. 
 It helps, too, that they are not the only ones making adjustments. They live in an affluent bedroom community of New York, one whose very name has become synonymous with wealth. The median income for Darien, a village of about 20,000 in Fairfield County, is $180,000. The median price for homes sold last year was well into seven figures. But when Scott Berry walks along Darien's commercial strip on a weekday, he sees many middle-aged men like him: part of the growing corps of the newly unemployed. At his local Y.M.C.A., the out-of-work Masters of the Universe and the professionals who relied on those huge salaries -- architects, landscape designers and high-end contractors -- can be found pumping iron together at 10 a.m. 
 ''A lot of them have a deer-in-the-headlights kind of look to them,'' he said. ''If you have a massive mortgage and your wife has been out of the work force for a decade or more, being laid off can seem crushing.'' 
 But, he added, ''If you can learn to roll with it a little bit, you'll be fine -- I mean, you know, probably.''
 The couple's first upheaval was Tracey Berry's short-lived effort to join the opt-out revolution. Two years ago, she left a job in Manhattan negotiating contracts for Ralph Lauren to spend time with her aging parents and children. After her husband's job search stalled, Tracey, 47, found a job at a local reinsurance firm. It doesn't nearly make up for her husband's salary, but she is home by 6 o'clock every night. 
 Scott's response to her new job was pure relief. 
 ''If she wanted to be home more and we could swing it financially, I was happy for her to be at home,'' he said. ''Now, things being what they are, I'm happy for her to work again. I always wanted a marriage of equals. And frankly, having a wife who works or can readily join the work force is a good risk-management strategy.''
 Tracey was more ambivalent. ''I'm pretty vocal in my marriage,'' she said. ''I said to him, 'I thought this was my turn to be home with the kids.' I wanted another summer with them, but what are you going to do? Beat him up for it? I assumed I'd re-enter the work force at some point, and right now, I'm proud to be able to go out there and earn money.'' 
 Shortly after Scott lost his job, the couple replaced their full-time nanny with a more cost-effective au pair and began choosing long-weekend getaways instead of weeklong family vacations. Some expenses, though, haven't changed: they still shell out for membership at a local country club (''the most modest one in town,'' Tracey said); they rented a condo last summer on Block Island; and they continue to pay hundreds a month for soccer, skating, T-ball and karate lessons for the children. They afford these things by dipping into the savings Scott put away during the flush years. 
 How to spend is a continuing negotiation -- one that sometimes devolves into heated discussions, outright arguments and bouts of sulking. Tracey is trying, often unsuccessfully, to spend less on clothing for herself and the children. ''Don't make me look like a jerk,'' she told a reporter, ''but I cannot bring myself to buy my children's clothes at Wal-Mart.'' 
 ''But do you have to buy them at Ralph Lauren?'' Scott shot back. 
 The Berrys have been at this long enough to make light of the well-worn nature of their disagreement. ''It goes like this,'' Scott said. '' 'How can you complain about me not earning an adequate income, when you can't control your spending?' '' 
 On cue, Tracey chimed in. ''And I say, 'How can you complain about my spending when you don't have an adequate income?' '' 
 To try to keep their spending under control, Scott and Tracey collect their receipts each week. Every Sunday, Scott calculates their weekly expenses. Then he compares the balance in their savings account with the rising cost of college tuition. ''There was a time when we had saved up enough to send both kids to Harvard,'' he said. ''Now I tell myself Harvard is not the only school.'' Then he calculates how their dwindling savings will affect their annual retirement income. 
 ''Right about then,'' Tracey said, ''he blows a gasket.'' 
 At times like this, a big house helps. ''We go to separate corners,'' Scott said. ''I have a big glass of wine and watch TV for couple of hours or do a sudoku puzzle to clear my head.'' 
 Alone in another part of the house, Tracey decompresses by phoning girlfriends and makes a mental list of Scott's virtues. ''The danger is that we'll have saved enough money for our retirement, but I won't like him enough to want to spend it with him,'' she said wryly, her affection for Scott clear.
 IN many ways, couples today have better resources to weather the economic storm. This is the best-educated generation of women in history. If their husbands face a prolonged period of unemployment, women are more qualified than their mothers or grandmothers were to re-enter the work force or expand their jobs and make a significant contribution to the family's bottom line. Gender roles have softened, too.
 ''In the past, working women were the target of great resentment,'' said Stephanie Coontz, a professor at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Wash., who studies marriage. ''Husbands felt emasculated when their wives went to work. All that has changed.'' 
 And while gallons of ink have been spilled about men who don't do enough housework or don't do it well, men today are more likely to cook, clean, set up a play date, phone the pediatrician and wash a load of laundry than their fathers ever were. 
 Which is not to say that they are perfect. 
 Scott does the daddy stuff with enthusiasm. ''I love that he's a great father,'' Tracey said. ''He takes them on outings. He coaches soccer. He's signed them up for a Y.M.C.A. program and they all get Indian names -- Samantha is Smiling Fox and Max is Flaming Arrow. It's so adorable.'' 
 But the vacuuming? ''When I come home at the end of the day, the house is cluttered,'' Tracey said. ''There are dishes in the sink and stuff underfoot. I leave the recycle at the top of the stairs. When I get home, the recycle is just where I left it. I don't want to be critical, but it's taken some getting used to.'' 
 Amy Reiss, a divorce lawyer in Manhattan, said that she had seen a spate of women seeking to end their marriages after they re-entered the work force or expanded their careers to replace their husbands' income. The wives don't resent working, she said. In fact, they're pleased to contribute. 
 But ''the husbands become what I call 'clickers,' '' Ms. Reiss said. ''These are unemployed men who sit on the couch all day, holding the remote and watching TV, unable to step up and take over some of the household tasks and chores associated with raising the kids.''
 Those women, she said, come to her looking for an exit strategy. The Berrys are not seeking Ms. Reiss's services. For one, they are better at coping in lean times. Scott hopes he will be making money again soon: he is consulting on a start-up that may receive financing, which would generate a modest but regular paycheck. 
 He is still a morning person. The first out of bed, he wakes his wife and helps the children get ready for school. Once the school bus pulls away, he heads for his regular workout at the gym. By 11 a.m., he's showered and dressed in a pressed oxford shirt and sitting at the computer in his home office. He writes a blog (scottjberry.com). He handles phone calls stemming from his consulting work. He knocks off at about 5 for dinner. 
 ''My job right now is looking for a job,'' Scott said. ''I may not be getting paid, but when I sit down at my computer I'm ready to work -- physically, mentally and psychologically.'' 
 Learning to roll with it? He has become something of an expert. ''We're making a lot of changes,'' Scott added. ''It isn't always comfortable, but we're doing it.'' 
 Tracey sounded more tentative. She and Scott sat on either end of the couch during an interview not long ago as she used two hands to tick off the number of marriages that she knows are foundering or ending. 
 ''Economics isn't the only reason, of course, but it doesn't help,'' she said. She paused for a moment, considering the distance she and Scott have traveled. Then she shifted her seat to move closer to her husband.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FULL-TIME DAD: Tracey and Scott Berry with Samantha, 8, and Max, 7.(PHOTOGRAPH BY M. J. FIEDLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 NEW LIFE: Since losing his job, Scott Berry of Darien, Conn., spends days in his home office and with his children, Samantha and Max.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); DISMISSALS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



348 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Conquering Financial Fears, Rationally

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
WHILE waiting for the markets to settle down, and for publishers to rush versions of ''Personal Finance 2.0,'' the post-2008 apocalypse edition, to stores, it's a good time to ponder how to decrease our investing mistakes the next time around.
 Unfortunately, that's harder than it may seem, according to ''Free Market Madness,'' by Peter A. Ubel (Harvard Business School Press, $26.95).His subtitle provides the clue: ''Why Human Nature Is at Odds With Economics -- and Why It Matters.'' 
 Many traditional economic theories are based on the assumption that people make rational decisions. But Dr. Ubel, a physician who directs the Center for Behavioral and Decision Sciences in Medicine at the University of Michigan, surveys the psychological and economic literature and finds countless examples of otherwise rational people acting irrationally, especially about numbers and finances.
 ''People are much more likely to undergo a surgical procedure advertised as having a 90 percent survival rate, for instance, than one described as having a 10 percent mortality rate,'' he writes. ''When considering the latter procedure (which of course is the same surgery as the former) they focus on the mortality rate and become averse to the potential loss of life.''
 This aversion to loss applies to money. The prospect of financial loss affects people more acutely than that of financial gain, even if the odds are the same. That could explain why investors are so reluctant to sell stocks that declined after they bought them. 
 ''If we hope to understand not just the strengths but also the weaknesses of free markets,'' he writes, ''we need to understand the strengths and weaknesses of human nature.'' Once we do, he says, we can make better decisions on personal and public policy levels.
 For example, it would be good to raise the savings rate. But consider the way most companies offer retirement plans: The ''default option'' is that the employees don't contribute. The only way they can, even if the company offers some kind of match, is for them to say ''sign me up.''
 But if automatic enrollment were the default option, more employees would probably participate. Such a change, Dr. Ubel argues, doesn't limit people's freedom, because they can still opt out. 
 He is not claiming this idea as his own. As he points out, behavioral economists and others have suggested this approach. He cites it as a way to deal with the fact that people can make irrational economic decisions.
 As many behavioral economists do, Dr. Ubel favors ''mandating better information about financial transactions,'' like adjustable-rate mortgages and rent-to-own deals that often end up costing much more than if the item was bought outright. But much of the time, he seems to favor direct government intervention in the marketplace.
 Here is just one example: ''The preponderance of scientific evidence now points to direct causal relationships between calorie-dense food and obesity,'' he writes, adding later that ''the government has a right to step in and see whether it can change the situation.''
 He goes on at great length to analyze the question of obesity, and its prevention. While this is an important subject, the discussion seems excessive in a book about personal finance.
 MORE irksome from time to time are statements of apparent surprise at how the real world works -- that advertisers, for example, would deliberately place ads where they think they'll find the most receptive audiences. (The book singles out nightly news programs as examples: because they tend to attract older viewers, they may be filled with pharmaceutical ads.) 
 ''Does this feel Big Brother-y to you?,'' it asks. ''Are you bothered that some advertisers know so much about your aches and pains? Would it bother you to know that you've also been typecast according to where you live, what magazines you subscribe to, or any other number of habits you have?''
 Though it is a rhetorical question, many people would answer no. Still, the book contains some intriguing information. Dr. Ubel writes that advertisers have hired neuroscientists who say that ''as people age, they base an increasing proportion of their decisions on emotion rather than strict deliberation.'' As a result, ads aimed at older adults often have a large emotional component.
 Dr. Ubel's fundamental premise seems sound: We are not as rational as we would like to believe, especially in economic matters. That is something to ponder before making an important investment decision. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



349 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Where the Pros Are Heading

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
ULAN BATOR? Maybe not this year. Facing an uncertain economic year ahead, as travelers continue to cut back their discretionary spending, tour operators are focusing on tried and true destinations to draw travelers in 2009. 
 They're betting on popular places like Europe, Mexico and the Galapagos to continue to lure vacationers despite recessionary challenges. At the same time, they're hedging those bets with itineraries that are closer to home and can be reached by car or require cheaper airfare than longer, international trips. 
 ''Far-flung places still on the fringe -- any of the really, really out-there destinations -- this isn't the marketplace,'' said Melissa Famiglietti Snape, vice president of product for Collette Vacations based in Pawtucket, R.I., which introduced a train trip to Tibet last year. This year, in response to demand for tours closer to home, the company has added four new train journeys along the Eastern Seaboard of the United States, California and British Columbia, with starting prices ranging from $1,899 to $3,299 a person. 
 Go Ahead Tours, a tour operator from Cambridge, Mass., which recently added a nine-day trip from Mexico City to Acapulco and a 10-day trip to Hawaii, will begin a series of domestic tours in early spring to national parks, New England, the South and the West Coast, with prices starting at $1,299 a person. And Globus brands, including Globus, Cosmos and Monograms, has added several getaways in North America including a seven-day driving vacation through Charleston and Savannah from $529 a person and a 10-day getaway to Boston, New York and Washington from $1,689.
 Banking on Europe's continued popularity, Globus has also added four new trips designed for first-time visitors to Europe as well as new vacations for repeat travelers that offer more in-depth itineraries in already popular destinations like Italy. The company's Avalon Waterways river cruise brand is introducing two new ships in Europe and five new European itineraries, ranging from 8 to 23 days and cruising from Frankfurt to Prague, Paris to Amsterdam, or Amsterdam to Bucharest. Prices range from $1,709 to $6,729 a person.
 Similarly, Trafalgar Tours, another large tour operator, has added several trips to its European roster including a 13-day Highlights of Italy and Switzerland tour from $2,775 a person and a 17-day journey through southern Spain and Portugal with a Douro Valley cruise from $4,150 a person. It has also added four new tours and three special itineraries in North America and Mexico. 
 That's not to say that tour operators are ruling out exotic destinations completely. Morocco, with its great geographical diversity and cultural opportunities, is proving particularly popular this year. Collette Vacations, Abercrombie & Kent, and Tauck World Discovery are among the travel companies that have added it to their rosters for 2009.
 Why Morocco? ''It has that heavy European and Mediterranean influence to it that the rest of Africa doesn't have,'' said Ms. Famiglietti Snape of Collette Vacations, which is combining Spain with Morocco on a 13-day trip starting at $3,449. She added that getting there was also a lot easier than getting to South Africa or other popular safari regions like Kenya. ''Flights are not anywhere near as long.''
 For travelers who are looking to go farther off the beaten path, Abercrombie & Kent has a 13-day trip from $7,510 a person tracing the northern route of China's historic Silk Road, and Asia Transpacific Journeys has a 14-day trip (from $6,995) to Yunnan Province in China, where local ethnic groups continue to hold fast to their tribal cultures. And Travcoa, a luxury tour operator based in Newport Beach, Calif., has a new 22-day journey (from $11,995) through China, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan that travels along ancient caravan roads used by traders.
 Mountain Travel Sobek, an adventure travel company from Emeryville, Calif., recently added five new trips to the ever-popular Galapagos Islands, including new shorter cruises, combination itineraries to the Ecuadorean highlands or the Amazon, and a new luxury cruise aboard a 24-cabin motor yacht. It also has new trips to Egypt, Jordan, Albania and Madagascar this year.
 Australian-based Intrepid Travel is going to Colombia, northwest Iran and Albania. The company, which already has trips to both Turkey and Iran, added northwest Iran this year because of the growing popularity of the Middle East, the company's fastest-growing region for American travelers. Albania has gained interest as Croatia has become increasingly popular. And Colombia, which the company is calling ''South America's best-kept secret'' with verdant mountains, coffee plantations and powdery beaches, ''is finally emerging,'' said Patrick Lavin, a spokesman for the company.
 ''The legitimate security concerns with Colombia 5 to 10 years ago are no longer a concern today,'' he said. ''Demand from travelers looking for a new and unspoiled destination make this the time to go to Colombia.'' 
 Some travel companies are going after specific niches. Abercrombie & Kent is introducing Philanthropic Journeys, a group of four new luxury tours that include an element of volunteering or giving back to the visited community. On its 11-day Belize journey, from $9,080 a person, travelers dive with whale sharks and assist researchers as they net and band birds in a nature preserve. For its 10-day Southern Africa trip, from $7,200 a person, travelers can assist a mobile health-care provider with cleaning, cooking and distribution of care-parcels during home-visit rounds or cultivate a vegetable garden at a local school. 
 Globus is betting on religious travel in 2009 by adding to its faith-based journeys with a new 10-day trip to Israel from $2,099 a person and an eight-day Vatican, Assisi and southern Italy trip from $2,049 with an optional extension to Medjugorje in Bosnia. Group sales of religious vacations are tracking ahead of where they were at this time last year, said Steve Born, vice president of marketing. In 2008, overall sales to Europe were down about 10 percent compared with the previous year, he added, but religious vacation sales stayed level. 
 ''They seem to be somewhat recession-proof,'' he said. 
 And Tauck World Discovery is targeting baby boomers with its new Tauck Culturious (short for ''culturally curious'') tours. ''They are the ones still spending with the discretionary income,'' said Jeremy Palmer, director of Tauck Ventures, who helped create the Culturious trips. 
 The trips, designed for well-traveled vacationers who want the experience of a guided tour but don't want to be micromanaged every second of the day, are more regionally focused, offer more time for independent exploration and incorporate hands-on experiences.
 For example, in Provence, travelers have the opportunity to kayak on the Sorgue River, enjoy a picnic lunch of regional specialties they have purchased at a local outdoor market, visit the haunts of the painter Paul Cezanne with an art scholar and have a chance to create a painting of their own. Cost: about $400 to $500 a person a day. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEIF PARSONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TOUR OPERATORS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (89%); TRAINS (78%); CRUISES (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); AIR FARES (56%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & KENT USA LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (50%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (76%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (73%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); XIZANG, CHINA (56%) MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NETHERLANDS (88%); SPAIN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); MOROCCO (79%); TIBET (76%); GERMANY (73%); FRANCE (72%); CHINA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



350 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: Eight Years of Madoffs

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
THREE days after the world learned that $50 billion may have disappeared in Bernie Madoff's Ponzi scheme, The Times led its front page of Dec. 14 with the revelation of another $50 billion rip-off. This time the vanished loot belonged to American taxpayers. That was our collective contribution to the $117 billion spent (as of mid-2008) on Iraq reconstruction -- a sinkhole of corruption, cronyism, incompetence and outright theft that epitomized Bush management at home and abroad.
 The source for this news was a near-final draft of an as-yet-unpublished 513-page federal history of this nation-building fiasco. The document was assembled by the Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction -- led by a Bush appointee, no less. It pinpoints, among other transgressions, a governmental Ponzi scheme concocted to bamboozle Americans into believing they were accruing steady dividends on their investment in a ''new'' Iraq. 
 The report quotes no less an authority than Colin Powell on how the scam worked. Back in 2003, Powell said, the Defense Department just ''kept inventing numbers of Iraqi security forces -- the number would jump 20,000 a week! 'We now have 80,000, we now have 100,000, we now have 120,000.' '' Those of us who questioned these astonishing numbers were dismissed as fools, much like those who begged in vain to get the Securities and Exchange Commission to challenge Madoff's math. 
 What's most remarkable about the Times article, however, is how little stir it caused. When, in 1971, The Times got its hands on the Pentagon Papers, the internal federal history of the Vietnam disaster, the revelations caused a national uproar. But after eight years of battering by Bush, the nation has been rendered half-catatonic. The Iraq Pentagon Papers sank with barely a trace.
 After all, next to big-ticket administration horrors like Abu Ghraib, Guantanamo and the politicized hiring and firing at Alberto Gonzales's Justice Department, the wreckage of Iraq reconstruction is what Ralph Kramden of ''The Honeymooners'' would dismiss as ''a mere bag of shells.'' The $50 billion also pales next to other sums that remain unaccounted for in the Bush era, from the $345 billion in lost tax revenue due to unpoliced offshore corporate tax havens to the far-from-transparent disposition of some $350 billion in Wall Street bailout money. In the old Pat Moynihan phrase, the Bush years have ''defined deviancy down'' in terms of how low a standard of ethical behavior we now tolerate as the norm from public officials.
 Not even a good old-fashioned sex scandal could get our outrage going again. Indeed, a juicy one erupted last year in the Interior Department, where the inspector general found that officials ''had used cocaine and marijuana, and had sexual relationships with oil and gas company representatives.'' Two officials tasked with marketing oil on behalf of American taxpayers got so blotto at a daytime golf event sponsored by Shell that they became too incapacitated to drive and had to be put up by the oil company. 
 Back in the day, an oil-fueled scandal in that one department alone could mesmerize a nation and earn Warren Harding a permanent ranking among our all-time worst presidents. But while the scandals at Bush's Interior resemble Teapot Dome -- and also encompass millions of dollars in lost federal oil and gas royalties -- they barely registered beyond the Beltway. Even late-night comics yawned when The Washington Post administered a coup de grace last week, reporting that Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne spent $235,000 from taxpayers to redo his office bathroom (monogrammed towels included). 
 It took 110 pages for the Center for Public Integrity, a nonpartisan research organization, to compile the CliffsNotes inventory of the Bush wreckage last month. It found ''125 systematic failures across the breadth of the federal government.'' That accounting is conservative. There are still too many unanswered questions. 
 Just a short list is staggering. Who put that bogus ''uranium from Africa'' into the crucial prewar State of the Union address after the C.I.A. removed it from previous Bush speeches? How high up were the authorities who ordered and condoned torture and then let the ''rotten apples'' at the bottom of the military heap take the fall? Who orchestrated the Pentagon's elaborate P.R. efforts to cover up Pat Tillman's death by ''friendly fire'' in Afghanistan? 
 And, for extra credit, whatever did happen to Bush's records from the Texas Air National Guard?
 The biggest question hovering over all this history, however, concerns the future more than the past. If we get bogged down in adjudicating every Bush White House wrong, how will we have the energy, time or focus to deal with the all-hands-on-deck crises that this administration's malfeasance and ineptitude have bequeathed us? The president-elect himself struck this note last spring. ''If crimes have been committed, they should be investigated,'' Barack Obama said. ''I would not want my first term consumed by what was perceived on the part of Republicans as a partisan witch hunt, because I think we've got too many problems we've got to solve.''
 Henry Waxman, the California congressman who has been our most tireless inquisitor into Bush scandals, essentially agreed when I spoke to him last week. Though he remains outraged about both the chicanery used to sell the Iraq war and the administration's overall abuse of power, he adds: ''I don't see Congress pursuing it. We've got to move on to other issues.'' He would rather see any prosecutions augmented by an independent investigation that fills in the historical record. ''We need to depoliticize it,'' he says. ''If a Democratic Congress or administration pursues it, it will be seen as partisan.'' 
 We could certainly do worse than another 9/11 Commission. Among those Americans still enraged about the Bush years, there are also calls for truth and reconciliation commissions, war crimes trials and, in a petition movement on Obama's transition Web site, a special prosecutor in the Patrick Fitzgerald mode. One of the sharpest appointments yet made by the incoming president may support decisive action: Dawn Johnsen, a law professor and former Clinton administration official who last week was chosen to run the Office of Legal Counsel in the Department of Justice. 
 This is the same office where the Bush apparatchik John Yoo produced his infamous memos justifying torture. Johnsen is a fierce critic of such constitutional abuses. In articles for Slate last year, she wondered ''where is the outrage, the public outcry'' over a government that has acted lawlessly and that ''does not respect the legal and moral bounds of human decency.'' She asked, ''How do we save our country's honor, and our own?''
 The last is not a rhetorical question. While our new president indeed must move on and address the urgent crises that cannot wait, Bush administration malfeasance can't be merely forgotten or finessed. A new Justice Department must enforce the law; Congress must press outstanding subpoenas to smoke out potential criminal activity; every legal effort must be made to stop what seems like a wholesale effort by the outgoing White House to withhold, hide and possibly destroy huge chunks of its electronic and paper trail. As Johnsen wrote last March, we must also ''resist Bush administration efforts to hide evidence of its wrongdoing through demands for retroactive immunity, assertions of state privilege, and implausible claims that openness will empower terrorists.'' 
 As if to anticipate the current debate, she added that ''we must avoid any temptation simply to move on,'' because the national honor cannot be restored ''without full disclosure.'' She was talking about America regaining its international reputation in the aftermath of our government's descent into the dark side of torture and ''extraordinary rendition.'' But I would add that we need full disclosure of the more prosaic governmental corruption of the Bush years, too, for pragmatic domestic reasons. To make the policy decisions ahead of us in the economic meltdown, we must know what went wrong along the way in the executive and legislative branches alike.
 As the financial historian Ron Chernow wrote in the Times last week, we could desperately use a Ferdinand Pecora, the investigator who illuminated the history of the 1929 meltdown in Senate hearings on the eve of the New Deal. The terrain to be mined would include not just the usual Wall Street suspects and their Congressional and regulatory enablers but also the Department of Housing and Urban Development, a strangely neglected ground zero in the foreclosure meltdown. The department's secretary, Alphonso Jackson, resigned in March amid still-unresolved investigations over whether he enriched himself and friends with government contracts.
 The tentative and amorphous $800 billion stimulus proposed by Obama last week sounds like a lot, but it's a drop in the bucket when set against the damage it must help counteract: more than $10 trillion in new debt and new obligations piled up by the Bush administration in eight years, as calculated by the economists Linda J. Bilmes and Joseph E. Stiglitz in the current Harper's Magazine. 
 If Bernie Madoff, at least, can still revive what remains of our deadened capacity for outrage, so can those who pulled off Washington's Ponzi schemes. The more we learn about where all the bodies and billions were buried on our path to ruin, the easier it may be for our new president to make the case for a bold, whatever-it-takes New Deal.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PONZI SCHEMES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ETHICS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); SCANDALS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); SEX SCANDALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (78%); ALBERTO GONZALES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



351 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: Always a Frog, Now My Prince

BYLINE: By JULIA GORIN. 
Julia Gorin, a stand-up comedian in Las Vegas, is the author of ''Clintonisms'' (Cambridge House Press).

 BODY:
MY mother called one day asking if I remembered a ''Lev'' from high school. I thought back to my Randallstown, Md., childhood and recalled a yucky Russian immigrant (I considered myself a non-yucky Russian immigrant) I had met in seventh-grade science, the boy whom I'd designated to do my computer labs in 12th-grade advanced physics and to take me to the junior prom when my college boyfriend wouldn't. I wrinkled my nose at the image of a short, pimply, pasty, kinky-haired but muscular boy and answered: ''Vaguely. Why?'' 
 ''I bumped into his mother at a party,'' she explained in Russian. ''I didn't recognize her, but she recognized me and asked if you were married yet. I said you were still single and asked about Lev. She said he was also single, so we exchanged your numbers.''
 Great. 
 ''So you might be hearing from him soon,'' she said, ''because he has a friend in New York he'll be visiting.''
 ''That's fine,'' I answered apathetically. He was sweet enough, a pitifully adorable munchkin, and the prospect of seeing someone from high school appealed to the nostalgic in me. I hung up, went back to my life as a writer and stand-up comic and forgot about the whole thing -- until a few days later, when my phone rang with a Maryland area code on the ID.
 ''Hello?'' I said.
 ''H-h-h-h --'' he stuttered. 
 ''Hello!''
 And there it was -- the awkward, halting cadence that hadn't changed since junior high. Eventually he managed to convey that he would be visiting his friend Len (also a Russian) in New York and asked if I wanted to meet them for lunch. I could pick the restaurant, and they would treat me. 
 Not being one to turn down free meals from strange men, I agreed and said ''Carmine's.''
 I was putting on lipstick when Lev and Len knocked. (Just because I wasn't interested didn't mean I didn't like advertising what I had.) Lev was exactly as I remembered him, minus the pimples and kinky hair. He still radiated a happy-go-lucky goodness. Aw. But his friend was sexy. Len looked like a Wall Street type in his black wool trench coat, and there was something devious in the eyes. Being Russian immigrants, naturally they were also computer programmers. 
 In the cab, Lev asked if I had a boyfriend. I launched into a dissertation on how I had no need for such things as I was independent and far too ambitious to devote any energy to a ''relationship.'' The truth was, I had gone through a lot of men that year trying to stave off the loneliness of living in a windowless, kitchenless, 150-square-foot basement apartment and was not in ''man mode'' by the time Lev and Len knocked.
 The three of us talked and ate for more than two hours. I regaled them with tales of reporting on the Brighton Beach Russian community and lamented the more diversified politics of the post-1980s immigrant group, which was not voting uniformly Republican as my wave did. At which point both guys breathed a sigh of relief, and Lev said, ''When we heard you became a writer, we were worried you were one of those people''-- meaning, I suppose, a crusading, self-righteous, left-leaning journalist type. The fact that I wasn't jazzed them up even more, as our date didn't end at Carmine's.
 They wanted to know if I would be doing stand-up anywhere that night, so I scheduled myself at Gotham Comedy Club, and they agreed to meet me. If my speech in the cab hadn't scared them off, the stand-up routine should have. My comedy was in its anti-sex stage, and the audience had to suffer through gems like: 
 ''Sometimes I'll spot a guy I'd been with and wonder: 'Why on earth did I sleep with him? Oh, yeah. He wouldn't leave.' Let me explain something: If you ever want to get rid of a guy fast and never hear from him again, sleep with him. He'll be on his way after five minutes, which is a lot less than the half hour he was going to spend at your door trying to get you to let him in. Then you can go to the bathroom, which is all you really felt like doing after dinner anyway.
 ''Of course, this approach often leads to regrets -- like that I didn't get paid. Because sometimes the sex is so blah, and I know there are women getting paid for that sort of thing, and it makes me feel like a sucker. Be honest: Wouldn't sex be just a little more exciting if you knew you would at least get a dollar afterward?''
 The audience became disturbed and depressed, though the same routine had worked in the past. But my two dates just wanted to know where I was headed next. I told them I was going to a Ukrainian cafe called Veselka for my friend Heather's birthday gathering. Lev and Len came along. 
 Heather asked me about the two mesmerized ''suitors,'' and I told her about the so-far seven-hour double date. The plan after Veselka was to go to a West Village jazz club; the guys came along. 
 Lev and Len weren't big talkers, so again I held the floor. Except for when Lev leaned over and whispered, ''I'm so attracted to you, it's killing me.''
 ''Oh. Sorry. I do it on purpose,'' I responded glibly, ending the conversation. 
 When we finished at the jazz club, everyone went home. Except for Lev and Len, who stood in the street with me, apparently still not ready to say good night. And truthfully, I was in the mood for a midnight movie. So the three of us went to see ''Starship Troopers.''
 After, the guys walked me back to my building, and at the gate I made some closing remarks to the effect of ''I had fun'' and ''Great to see you.'' But Lev and Len insisted on walking me to the front door, three steps beyond the gate. O.K., I'm at the front door. Goodbye. 
 No, they followed me down the stairwell until I was at my door, key in hand, hesitating. At which point Lev and Len must have sensed my discomfort, so they said a quick good night and left.
 Two days later, I got the following e-mail message:
 ''Hey, Jules!
 ''It was really awesome seeing you. It's a great pleasure to hang out with a hot/down-to-earth/republican/fun/artistic woman. You're PERFECT. NEVER change. Cause if you do, I'm going to come up there and give you a spanking! :o)
 ''O.K., enough compliments ... Whenever you're in Baltimore, call me. Actually, just call me whenever you feel like it. 
 ''I'm always there for you, Jules. 
 ''Lev''
 Thus began a daily e-mail correspondence whose pith and wit (don't go by the message above) I shared with two girlfriends, who each separately asked, ''And why is this guy not your boyfriend?'' 
 It was through his letters that I saw Lev for the first time. They didn't stutter, they had style and they revealed a guy who had complexity -- and who appreciated it in others. This wasn't just another Jewish man living with his mother. (Did I mention he lived with his mother? He stayed with her after his father died during our senior year of high school.)
 I was amused, however, when Lev told me he had looked up and saved my phone number two years earlier, but didn't use it until his mother handed him the same number.
 I came home for Thanksgiving less than two weeks after the endless rendezvous. As promised, I called Lev to let him know we could hang out, which we did every day, on his tab, and exclusively at fancy spots, except for the gun range on Friday.
 After messing around with him Friday night, I had the distinct feeling that I was unofficially dating my husband. This just wasn't a guy you moved on from. The situation felt peacefully out of my hands. Lev made it semiofficial as we said goodbye before I got on a bus back to New York, saying: ''See you in two weeks. Please don't cheat on me.'' 
 My mind reeled as I tried to process the possibility that after all this time, distance and indiscriminate fornication, the frog-legged, compact, 5-foot-4 Russian Lev had been my intended. Lev! About whom I'd thought sexually exactly once, as a teenager, and purely as a gross-out exercise. 
 Then again, those squat frog legs were wrestler's legs, I reminded myself. He had been a high school wrestling champion. (He noted that I never went to see a single wrestling match, even though he saw every play I was in.)
 Lev asked if I would move in with him should he find work in or near New York, and I said I would. He found a software job in Connecticut that February, and moved into my tiny apartment. He worked, I looked for a bigger apartment and we went out to a different restaurant every night. I became fatter and his wallet became thinner. He didn't seem to mind either one. 
 AS for Len, Lev related the conversation they had had after dropping me off that first night. Lev had said: ''It doesn't look like she's interested in me. You should ask her out.'' To which Len shook his head emphatically and said, ''No, I'm scared.''
 My mother was overwhelmed by the snowball-like pace of things. I suspect that when she exchanged numbers with Lev's mother at that party, she feared she was ultimately just adding another innocent soul to her daughter's slush pile of bodies. Nor did Lev's mother realize what she had set in motion, much less that it would cause her son to leave her, which was when she started asking him to reconsider. 
 My mother called the first week of May with her perpetual concern about her permanently unemployed daughter: ''When are you going to get health insurance already?''
 ''Hold on. Lev, when will I have health insurance?''
 ''End of the month?''
 ''End of the month, Ma.''
 ''So you're getting married at the end of the month?''
 ''I guess so.''
 ''Nice to know. Congratulations. Are your father and I invited?'' 
 And so it happened that six months after our all-day micro high school reunion, Lev and I were married at City Hall. About 11 people attended, and afterward we went to Carmine's.
 Ten years later, Lev does everything I ask, helps me with my work and hopes in vain for sex. Sort of like in 12th-grade advanced physics.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHER SILAS NEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); RESTAURANTS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



352 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; QUICK BITE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Who Needs Soil?

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BROOKS

 BODY:
Ordinarily, Joseph and Susan Donato, who run the Woodbury Farm Market, would be spending the winter down south. Not this year. ''You have to make do in this economy,'' Mr. Donato said. 
 For the Donatos, making do comes in the form of their namesake, Donato's Hydroponic House of Greens, which was added to the garden center last July. After starting with geraniums, the Donatos filled the expansive greenhouse with lettuce and arugula, creating a welcome oasis of green in this drabbest of seasons. 
 ''The idea was to make it possible for people to come in and walk down the wide aisles, almost like a pick-your-own,'' Mr. Donato said. Most of the actual picking, though, is done by the Donatos, who welcome visitors with explanations about the hydroponic process. 
 The Donatos raise numerous varieties of lettuce ($3 a head, $7 a pound for arugula), including romaine, dark red galactic and buttercrunch, with bibb the most popular. ''It looks great, and it doesn't wilt,'' Mrs. Donato said. And while a red bibb and frisee were recently added to the lineup, attempts to grow tomatoes and basil have been discontinued, at least for now. ''They don't pay, because they require too much heat,'' Mr. Donato explained. On the other hand, strawberry plants are coming along quite well, with berries expected to be ready by Valentine's Day. 
 From its start as a seedling, lettuce takes from 32 to 40 days to reach full maturity, growing in row upon row of planters -- plastic rain gutters, actually, that Mr. Donato purchased at a local hardware store. Water, infused with an organic nutrient solution, flows through those channels, nourishing the greens without the ''benefit'' of a bed of soil, chemical fertilizers and pesticides -- although a natural pest-killer is available if needed. ''We do have a refrigerator in the back full of lady bugs,'' Mr. Donato said. ''They're great for eating aphids.'' 
 Donato's Hydroponic House of Greens, 717 Main Street, Woodbury; donatoshouseofgreens.com; (203) 263-2175. Open Wednesdays, 2 to 5 p.m., and weekends by appointment.
 CHRISTOPHER BROOKS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



353 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Striking The Brothels' Bottom Line

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: POIPET, Cambodia 

 BODY:
 In trying to figure out how we can defeat sex trafficking, a starting point is to think like a brothel owner.
 My guide to that has been Sok Khorn, an amiable middle-aged woman who is a longtime brothel owner here in the wild Cambodian town of Poipet. I met her five years ago when she sold me a teenager, Srey Mom, for $203 and then blithely wrote me a receipt confirming that the girl was now my property. At another brothel nearby, I purchased another imprisoned teenager for $150.
 Astonished that in the 21st century I had bought two human beings, I took them back to their villages and worked with a local aid group to help them start small businesses. I've remained close to them over the years, but the results were mixed. 
 The second girl did wonderfully, learning hairdressing and marrying a terrific man. But Srey Mom, it turned out, was addicted to methamphetamine and fled back to the brothel world to feed her craving.
 I just returned again to Ms. Khorn's brothel to interview her, and found something remarkable. It had gone broke and closed, like many of the brothels in Poipet. One lesson is that the business model is more vulnerable than it looks. There are ways we can make enslaving girls more risky and less profitable, so that traffickers give up in disgust.
 For years, Ms. Khorn had been grumbling to me about the brothel -- the low margins, the seven-day schedule, difficult customers, grasping policemen and scorn from the community. There was also a personal toll, for her husband had sex with the girls, infuriating her, and the couple eventually divorced bitterly. Ms. Khorn was also troubled that her youngest daughter, now 13, was growing up surrounded by drunken, leering men.
 Then in the last year, the brothel business became even more challenging amid rising pressure from aid groups, journalists and the United States State Department's trafficking office. The office issued reports shaming Cambodian leaders and threatened sanctions if they did nothing.
 Many of the brothels are owned by the police, which complicates matters, but eventually authorities in Cambodia were pressured enough that they ordered a partial crackdown.
 ''They didn't tell me to close down exactly,'' said another Poipet brothel owner whom I've also interviewed periodically. ''But they said I should keep the front door closed.''
 About half the brothels in Poipet seem to have gone out of business in the last couple of years. After Ms. Khorn's brothel closed, her daughter-in-law took four of the prostitutes to staff a new brothel, but it's doing poorly and she is thinking of starting a rice shop instead. ''A store would be more profitable,'' grumbled the daughter-in-law, Sav Channa.
 ''The police come almost every day, asking for $5,'' she said. ''Any time a policeman gets drunk, he comes and asks for money. ... Sometimes I just close up and pretend that this isn't a brothel. I say that we're all sisters.''
 Ms. Channa, who does not seem to be imprisoning anyone against her will, readily acknowledged that some other brothels in Poipet torture girls, enslave them and occasionally beat them to death. She complained that their cruelty gives them a competitive advantage.
 But brutality has its own drawbacks as a business model, particularly during a crackdown, pimps say. Brothels that imprison and torture girls have to pay for 24-hour guards, and they lose business because they can't allow customers to take girls out to hotel rooms. Moreover, the Cambodian government has begun prosecuting the most abusive traffickers.
 ''One brothel owner here was actually arrested,'' complained another owner in Poipet, indignantly. ''After that, I was so scared, I closed the brothel for a while.'' 
 To be sure, a new brothel district has opened up on the edge of Poipet -- in the guise of ''karaoke lounges'' employing teenage girls. One of the Mama-sans there offered that while she didn't have a young virgin girl in stock, she could get me one.
 Virgin sales are the profit center for many brothels in Asia (partly because they stitch girls up and resell them as virgins several times over), and thus these sales are their economic vulnerability as well. If we want to undermine sex trafficking, the best way is to pressure governments like Cambodia's to organize sting operations and arrest both buyers and sellers of virgin girls. Cambodia has shown it is willing to take at least some action, and that is one that would strike at the heart of the business model.
 Sexual slavery is like any other business: raise the operating costs, create a risk of jail, and the human traffickers will quite sensibly shift to some other trade. If the Obama administration treats 21st-century slavery as a top priority, we can push many of the traffickers to quit in disgust and switch to stealing motorcycles instead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (93%); SEX TRAFFICKING (90%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); WRITERS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); METHAMPHETAMINE (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



354 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Combing the Boroughs

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

 BODY:
WITH her Brooklyn rent rising even as rents were falling elsewhere, Chloe Sowers figured she could find a better deal than the one she had.
 For two years, Ms. Sowers had lived on Water Street in Dumbo, in a nice two-bedroom with a great view. But the rent, which began at $2,400 a month, was scheduled to rise to around $2,800. Heat wasn't included.
 In the second bedroom, she had a series of roommates, who usually stayed for a few months. ''There were other places they could rent for less,'' she said. And there was another deterrent, as she noted in her Craigslist ad seeking roommates: her father slept on the living-room couch.
 Ms. Sowers, 34, a native of Tampa, Fla., studied computer engineering at the University of South Florida, worked as a Web developer in Orlando and was transferred to New York nearly five years ago. When she rented the Dumbo apartment, ''it was still the bubble days,'' she said, and the rent seemed reasonable. 
 Last spring, Ms. Sowers was laid off. With computer work being outsourced, she worried that any job she had would always be at risk. 
 But she has an entrepreneurial mind-set, and assumed that self-employment would give her more control over her finances. ''I was always a worker bee until I read a few books,'' she said, including the best-seller ''Rich Dad, Poor Dad,'' which advocates financial independence through passive investment income. ''It is not the type of thing you would be exposed to growing up poor,'' she said. ''It is kind of eye-opening.''
 She now does Web development from home, and owns five houses near Charlotte, N.C., that she rents out. ''I make modest income,'' she said.
 Last spring, her long-divorced father, Joseph Sowers, 55, formerly a computer programmer, arrived from Florida to work as a stockbroker. His home base was the living room. ''I've always slept on the couch,'' he said. ''I guess it's strange.'' 
 After his arrival, Ms. Sowers had to lower the rent to attract roommates. Her most recent roommate, Marie Tan, 21, paid $900 a month. ''I didn't mind at all'' having him there, Ms. Tan said. ''He was unobtrusive and was a very nice person.''
 Ms. Sowers's lease was expiring in the fall. With the softer market, she knew she could rent a two-bedroom, with heat included, for several hundred dollars less than she was paying in Dumbo.
 ''It might not be a newer building,'' she said, ''but it's cheaper. If you can save money on rent, you can apply that toward other things.''
 At first, she hoped to take advantage of economies of scale. A three-bedroom, with a relatively low price per bedroom, would work for her, her cat, her father and Ms. Tan. She wasn't particular about the neighborhood, but she preferred an elevator. Ms. Sowers, a fan of alternative transportation, gets around on an electric foot scooter. (She hopes to start a scooter-importing business.)
 Using the Yahoo Pipes application, Ms. Sowers set up an RSS feed to receive listings only for units in pet-friendly elevator buildings with a price of less than $900 per bedroom. ''I had to create a little sub-pipe to do the arithmetic,'' she said. 
 In the fall, she almost rented a sunny three-bedroom for around $3,400 on West 107th Street near Central Park. The agent advertised it as a five-bedroom, noting that there was a home office and a living room where a wall could be added. This would allow for additional roommates. 
 But the management company required proof of income that equaled or exceeded 45 times the monthly rent, or more than $150,000. Otherwise, Ms. Sowers would need a guarantor. The management company noted that she could buy a lease guarantee from Insurent.com, which for a fee assumes the risk from tenants who don't meet their landlord's stringent financial requirements. 
 The agent also said a ramp for her scooter could be installed on the outside steps. ''I asked them to double-check'' with the management company, Ms. Sowers said, ''because that's how brokers are, and they said, 'Oh, no, we can do that only if you're handicapped.' ''
 She decided instead to find a less expensive place for just her and her father. The Century, a 600-unit building on Netherland Avenue in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, was lovely and modern and ''like a city in itself,'' she said. But ''it took forever to get there,'' she added. ''Plus, you had to hike up that hill unless you take the bus.'' 
 At $1,450 or so, the apartment wasn't a bargain, either. The amenities -- including a private health club with a pool, tennis courts and basketball courts -- cost extra. (Building residents pay $880 a year for a basic membership, but a membership including year-round tennis is $2,000.)
 Ms. Sowers turned to a $1,090 one-bedroom in a midrise building in Flushing, Queens. After she left a $20 application fee, her messages to the management office were never returned. ''I don't know if they were just running a scam and collecting application payments,'' she said. 
 Her roommate, Ms. Tan, told her that rents were especially low in Staten Island. So Ms. Sowers decided to hunt there.
 By now she was tired of Craigslist. A three-bedroom for $3,000 a month with an incentive of one free month would be advertised for $2,769, which is the ''net effective rent'' on a 12-month lease if the cost is spread over 13 months. 
 ''I figured, does anyone use the newspaper anymore?'' Ms. Sowers said. Maybe she would be missing something if she didn't. She circled an ad for a one-bedroom for only $999 in the St. George neighborhood of Staten Island. 
 The apartment was old, big and just blocks from the ferry terminal. In the fall, she and her father moved in. He took the couch.
 ''Her standards are higher than mine, I guess,'' Mr. Sowers said. 
 Ms. Tan found a Staten Island place of her own. It's just $400, but requires a trip on the Staten Island Railway. 
 Ms. Sowers's new place, with heat included, is so toasty warm that ''you have to open a window to cool down,'' she said. ''It is not one of those refurbished apartments with granite everything. The cabinets are really old, and they don't close at all, and the sink was leaking. But I thought maybe I would live here for a year and invest the money saved in my businesses.''
 E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Heat is included in the rent of Chloe Sowers's new apartment.
A one-bedroom in the St. George section of Staten Island is $999.
Amenities cost extra at the Century in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
 A guarantor was needed for a place on West 107th Street in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); OUTSOURCING (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (71%); ENGINEERING (68%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (56%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



355 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; TBR; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: TBR: Inside the List

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

 BODY:
BABY BUST: Are you sitting down? I have some news. Yes, ''What To Expect When You're Expecting'' has fallen off the paperback advice and how-to list, after a run of 391 weeks. So far, there has been no official reaction from the Voluntary Human Extinction Movement (motto: ''May We Live Long and Die Out''), but I can feel them gloating. 
Does the dethroning of ''What to Expect'' merely reflect the renewed strength of upstarts like Cesar Millan's ''Be the Pack Leader'' (No. 10) and war horses like Rick Warren's ''Purpose-Driven Life'' (back on the list at No. 8)? Or is there some deeper civilizational shift at work? Birth rates do tend to fall in tough times: during the Depression, the United States rate declined by 15 percent, prompting popular writers to warn of a ''baby crop shortage.'' But a countervailing economic trend offers some hope. According to a recent article in Forbes, sex-toy manufacturers are broadening their product lines to meet surging demand. ''The industry is shielded in a way,'' a spokeswoman for the company Adam & Eve told Forbes. ''It does seem people use us even more heavily in bad times.'' 
 BRINGING SEXY BACK: It's too soon to say what the shift toward home-based recreation will do for another below-the-waist classic, ''The Joy of Sex.'' The latest version of Alex Comfort's hippie love manual, which spent 343 weeks on the list after its original 1972 publication, hit the stores last week, bearing the tag line ''The Ultimate Revised Edition.'' (Is that a threat or a promise?) In her recent book, ''The Dangerous Joy of Dr. Sex and Other True Stories,'' the journalist Pagan Kennedy calls Comfort ''one of the greatest and strangest minds of the 20th century.'' Great might be a stretch, but I'll buy strange. A scholarly expert on snails, Comfort insisted his shy wife garden in a bikini -- this was in not-yet-swinging London -- and once built a television out of spare parts and glue made from disintegrated Weetabix. Bored with married sex, he took up with Jane Henderson, a librarian friend of his wife's, often speeding toward their secret pleasure lab with a condom taped to the dashboard. He nicknamed himself ''John Thomas,'' after the gamekeeper's penis in ''Lady Chatterley's Lover,'' and compiled his and Jane's ''kitchen tested'' recipes in a privately circulated pamphlet titled ''Doing Sex Properly.'' In 1961, he published ''Come Out to Play,'' a novel about a doctor who opens a sex academy in Paris. In his 1963 book ''Sex in Society,'' he argued for free love and denounced chastity as a public health menace. When ''Joy'' came out in 1972, it was an immediate sensation. ''Without quite realizing what he was up to,'' Kennedy writes, Comfort ''had found a way to re-brand sex. He'd taken stunts seen nowhere outside of triple-X porn and turned them into entertainments suitable for a suburban couple to try after a few glasses of merlot.'' Sadly, the new edition, edited by the British sexologist Susan Quilliam, does not seem to include the homespun sewing pattern for a G-string featured in the original, but it does contain entries on AIDS, Viagra and Internet porn. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (87%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (79%); TRENDS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



356 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: At the Old Navy Yard, Niche Manufacturers Weather the Recession

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
The workshop where John Randall assembles $3,000 pine-beam tables is so cramped that he holds client meetings at a sawdust-covered worktable and has to shuffle his equipment around to make elbow room for himself and a co-worker. 
 But the recession notwithstanding, he has enough orders to keep busy through April and hopes to buy a $2,000 drill press and hire another full-time woodworker soon. So Mr. Randall recently signed a lease to double his space at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. 
 ''It doesn't feel like a slowdown,'' he said. ''We all may not have any work in three months. But we've been saying that for three months.''
 Mr. Randall's three-man company, Bien Hecho, may be one of the brighter lights in the city's darkening economy. For more than 50 years, large-scale manufacturing in New York has been shrinking as textile factories, printing plants and sugar refineries have shut down or moved south and overseas. 
 But in recent years, small manufacturers like Bien Hecho (Spanish for ''well made'') have been on the rise, making products for niche markets and wealthy customers. And now, even as the broader economy is suffering, many of those manufacturers are proving surprisingly resilient, city officials and economic analysts say. 
 Some businesses are making products that government agencies and companies are still buying, like body armor for soldiers in Iraq and sets for television programs like ''Saturday Night Live.'' They also make food products like tortillas for local immigrant communities and baguettes for Manhattan restaurants. Others make luxury goods, like high-end audio speakers, that affluent customers are still buying. 
 ''There's quite a market for niche products in New York City,'' said Jonathan Bowles, the director of the Center for an Urban Future, a nonpartisan research group in Manhattan, and an author of several manufacturing studies. ''For a lot of the niche manufacturers, including those that are broadly appealing to the high-end market, they may be doing O.K.''
 The Brooklyn Navy Yard, on the East River between the Williamsburg and Manhattan Bridges, has become a hot house for more than 200 of the city's small manufacturers, its sprawling 300-acre campus filled with the sounds of hammering and drilling on any given afternoon.
 Indeed, the Navy Yard has had so much demand for new space that despite the recession, it plans to add 1.5 million square feet in the next two years, its largest expansion since World War II, said Andrew H. Kimball, the president and chief executive of the Navy Yard. The expansion is expected to be completed by January 2011, and Navy Yard executives hope that the tenants' total work force, currently 5,000, will grow by 2,000. While data is sparse, many experts and city officials say they believe that smaller companies are helping the broader manufacturing sector to perform better than other parts of the economy. 
 A recent study of unemployment data by the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research group, shows that the number of workers in manufacturing who are receiving unemployment benefits grew by 11 percent between October 2007 and October 2008, compared with a 67 percent increase in the finance and insurance industries and 56 percent in the construction industry. 
 ''If they've been flourishing, they'll be able to survive,'' said Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University who has tracked the rise of the city's niche manufacturers. ''Their competitive advantage is the quality and design of their production.''
 That is not to say that all niche manufacturers will avoid the recession or that their prosperity will boost the economy. At least one woodworking company at the Navy Yard has gone out of business. Some businesses there reported that business is not as strong as before. And many face limited growth because there are only so many customers for products like body armor, $6,000 speakers and $3,000 tables.
 ''There's a natural limitation to what they do,'' said Cliff Waldman, an economist with the Manufacturers Alliance/M.A.P.I., a research organization in Arlington, Va., that is supported by multinational manufacturers. ''They have a few people with specialized skills and they service a few markets.''
 But it is also clear that smaller manufacturers have been expanding even as the city's more traditional industrial base has continued to shrink. In Brooklyn, the number of jobs for niche manufacturers, which are not only small but also tend to have local clients, rose by 17 percent between 2001 and 2007, said James Parrott, the chief economist of the Fiscal Policy Institute. In the same period, the number for manufacturers making products for mass markets declined by 48 percent. 
 Niche manufacturers currently make up a quarter of the more than 25,000 manufacturing jobs in Brooklyn, Mr. Parrott said. No similar statistics were available for the rest of the city, which has a total of more than 92,000 manufacturing workers, he said. 
 The Brooklyn Navy Yard has housed manufacturing tenants since the city bought the land for $24 million in 1967. 
 Today, 70 percent of the Navy Yard's 243 businesses have roughly five employees or fewer and specialize in niche products. Many business owners interviewed said they were staying strong in this market by employing few workers and keeping their products specialized. 
 ''They tend to be very nimble, even in the downtimes,'' said Mr. Kimball. ''They can make it through a difficult stretch easier than the bigger players.''
 Stiegelbauer Associates, which makes sets for television productions, remains profitable partly by limiting the staff to 15 workers and employing extra union workers for bigger jobs, according to Steve Paone, its vice president. The business has declined in recent years as soap operas like ''Guiding Light'' have invested more in permanent rather than temporary sets and have filmed more on location.
 But because he ran a leaner business, he said the company was able to profit when a regular client, ''Saturday Night Live,'' added three election specials to its standard schedule of 22 shows in the fall. The company also picked up work with the new Jimmy Fallon show. Still, Mr. Paone is cautious about whether the recent streak will continue because so many television programs have cut back. 
 ''They've been busier than ever. But they're one of the few,'' he said about ''Saturday Night Live.''
 Other manufacturers are thriving by selling products that government agencies consider essential. 
 Caleb Crye, the managing director of Crye Precision, said he had not seen any decline in demand for his security products, which include body armor for Navy Seals, flame-resistant uniforms for military officials and nape pads -- Army helmet attachments that protect soldiers' spinal cords by covering the backs of their necks. 
 Business has been good enough, he said, to avoid layoffs and keep his 70 workers at the Navy Yard and 30 workers in New Jersey busy. 
 Some products that have become too expensive for some people remain necessities for others. 
 John Devore, whose three-person company, DeVore Fidelity, designs $2,000 to $16,800 speakers, said that since Thanksgiving, business had dropped off among buyers from England, France and Israel. But that decline was balanced by orders from smaller West Coast audio stores, where consumers are spending more on fine speakers for their homes.
 ''While my business hasn't really dropped off, it seems like it's coming from different stores,'' he said.
 Then there are New Yorkers who still seem to have enough money to spend on luxury goods like custom-designed furniture. 
 Scott Jordan, a custom furniture maker at the Navy Yard, saw his business dip by more than 30 percent in November from the year before. But since Christmas, weekly sales for his $2,600 sleeper sofas and $3,000 beds have picked up. He says that while his more affluent clients may be cost-conscious, they are not ''worried about where their next paycheck is coming from.''
 ''A good night's sleep is more important than ever,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the resiliency of niche manufacturers at the Brooklyn Navy Yard industrial park omitted credit for a newsletter that first reported that the number of Brooklyn jobs for niche manufacturers rose by 17 percent from 2001 to 2007 while the number of manufacturers making products for mass markets declined by 48 percent, and that niche manufacturers currently make up a quarter of the more than 25,000 manufacturing jobs in Brooklyn. That information was published in September in the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce's Brooklyn Labor Market Review. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: High-End Furniture: Scott Jordan, a custom furniture maker at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, said that weekly sales of his $2,600 sleeper sofas and $3,000 beds have picked up.
 Thriving Market: Despite the recession, the navy yard, top, is adding space. A welder at Stiegelbauer Associates, above, which makes sets for TV programs. The company has had to limit staff but is profitable.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); CITIES (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (71%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); WORLD WAR II (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); TEXTILE MFG (67%); SUGAR MFG (67%); FABRIC MILLS (67%); TEXTILE MILLS (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009



357 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Children of the Left, Unite!

BYLINE: By CALEB CRAIN. 
Caleb Crain has written for n+1, The New Yorker and The London Review of Books.

 BODY:
Financial behemoths have been nationalized. The government is promising to spend liberally to combat recession. There are even rumors of universal health care. Socialism is on the march! As we leave capitalism behind, the traditionalists among you may be wondering: Will they come for our children? 
 Too late. As Julia L. Mickenberg and Philip Nel document in Tales for Little Rebels: A Collection of Radical Children's Literature (New York University, $32.95), Marxist principles have been dripping steadily into the minds of American youth for more than a century. This isn't altogether surprising. After all, most parents want their children to be far left in their early years -- to share toys, to eschew the torture of siblings, to leave a clean environment behind them, to refrain from causing the extinction of the dog, to rise above coveting and hoarding, and to view the blandishments of corporate America through a lens of harsh skepticism. But fewer parents wish for their children to carry all these virtues into adulthood. It is one thing to convince your child that no individual owns the sandbox and that it is better for all children that it is so. It is another to hope that when he grows up he will donate the family home to a workers' collective. 
 Mickenberg, an associate professor of American studies at the University of Texas, Austin, and Nel, a professor of English at Kansas State University, have nonetheless found 44 texts that attempt to attach children to social justice permanently. As they note in an introduction, the tentacles of the left reach deep. Crockett Johnson, creator of the innocuous-seeming ''Harold and the Purple Crayon,'' was an editor at The New Masses, a Communist weekly. Syd Hoff, known for ''Danny and the Dinosaur,'' wrote for The Daily Worker. Environmentalism is more or less explicit in such crowd pleasers as ''The Lorax'' by Dr. Seuss. In fact, so permeated is children's literature by progressive ideals that Mickenberg and Nel were forced to narrow their scope by focusing on texts that have fallen out of print. They group their rediscoveries according to such themes as economics, unionization and respect for individual difference. 
 A less ideological reader might be tempted to divvy them up into the categories Charming, Insufferable and Inappropriate. Let's get Charming out of the way first. In 1939, under the pseudonym ''A. Redfield,'' Hoff wrote and illustrated ''Mr. His,'' a book about a portly capitalist with a top hat, a tuxedo and a droopy mustache -- like the Monopoly man but more personable. Though elsewhere Mickenberg and Nel warn against trafficking in ''the stereotype of the fat capitalist,'' they're lenient with Hoff, perhaps because the rotundity of Mr. His is so charismatic. Mr. His owns a whole town, Histown, where he lives in luxury and the workers in squalor. He gets away with it because ''there were no strikes in Histown -- and no picket lines and no unions. The newspapers, which Mr. His owned too, said that these things were wicked.'' Since this is a children's story, the workers manage to defy Mr. His despite the false consciousness foisted on them by his mass media, whereupon he temporizes by trying to foment race hatred: ''Wuxtry!'' he exclaims, hawking issues of his newspaper in person. ''Blondes -- your real enemy is brunettes!'' Unable to resist a villain who shouts ''Wuxtry!'' I wandered off to the Internet to try to buy a copy of ''Mr. His'' for my niece. None were for sale. By their reprinting, Mickenberg and Nel have rescued Mr. His from near-complete oblivion. 
 It is not their only success. In ''The Story of Your Coat'' (1946), Clara Hollos elaborates an idea from ''Das Kapital'' by tracing a coat from its origins on the backs of Australian sheep through a unionized textile mill and into a department store. The writing is simple but not simplified; it reminds me of the casual but illuminating way V. S. Pritchett explains the leather trade in his memoir ''A Cab at the Door.'' In Yehoshua Kaminski's tale ''A Little Hen Goes to Brownsville'' (1937), translated from the Yiddish, a chicken sets out to use her near-superhero-caliber egg-laying skills to help the Brooklyn neighborhood's babies, which she hears are ''small and pale, thin and weak.'' So unstoppable is her nutritional charity that she lays an egg in Times Square, gets arrested, pays her fine with another egg, and then pays her bus fare with yet another. The moral, Mickenberg and Nel infer, is that ''justice is best served by a system that is not defined by the strict and inflexible administration of a legal code.'' Also, that children should not go hungry. 
 It's harder to say exactly what's politically radical about Lydia Gibson's ''Teacup Whale'' (1934), in which a boy finds in a puddle a tiny whale, which his mother persistently mistakes for a polliwog, and which in time must be carted to the wharf in a truck. Does the whale represent the proletariat? Is the boy the opposite of Captain Ahab? The story is, in any case, pleasant to read, and the illustrations are lovely. 
 As much cannot be said of the Insufferable. I hasten to say there are a lot of stinkers in children's literature, and I suspect capitalism is responsible for more of them than socialism is. The real culprit isn't political economics; it's morality. There seems to be a slightly higher propensity for self-consciously virtuous books to be written by people whose personalities have been paved over by their superegos. In Oscar Saul and Lou Lantz's insipid ''Revolt of the Beavers'' (1936), for example, a rebel beaver explains his campaign to a couple of 9-year-olds thusly: ''All the beavers were very sad . . . and me too, so I said why don't you make a club for sad beavers to become glad. So all the beavers say Yayy!'' Language so insipid risks turning a sensitive 9-year-old to a life of orthodoxy if not reaction. When I was a child, I felt guilty that I was never able to read more than a few pages of a beautiful edition of Carl Sandburg's ''Rootabaga Stories'' (1922), given to my sister and me by our parents. But Mickenberg and Nel reprint a story from the book's 1923 sequel, and I am at last set free. I didn't read the stories because no child could -- they are stomach-churningly, almost incomprehensibly saccharine. Here, for example, is how Sandburg describes the cost of an episode of militarism: ''And the thousand golden ice tongs the sooners gave the boomers, and the thousand silver wheelbarrows the boomers gave the sooners, both with hearts and hands carved on the handles, they were long ago broken up in one of the early wars deciding pigs must be painted both pink and green with both checks and stripes.'' 
 Last but not least among Mickenberg and Nel's selections are the Inappropriate. For all their caution about the fatness of capitalists, no warning is given that Julius Lester's ''High John the Conqueror'' (1969), a retelling of several African-American folk tales, deploys the N-word with gusto. Another stumper is a 1954 retelling and reillustration by Walt Kelly, of ''Pogo'' fame, of an episode from Lewis Carroll's novel ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.'' The King of Hearts is drawn as a burly, sinister cat with the face of Senator Joseph McCarthy. To show that the McCarthy cat is evil, Kelly gives its eyes no pupils. It hasa 5 o'clock shadow, and there's hair -- fur? -- on the backs of its hands. The effect is grotesque, of a feline Tony Soprano brutalizing and carnalizing Carroll's delicate surrealism. I imagine it would give children nightmares. As might the verses of Ned Donn's 1934 ''Pioneer Mother Goose'': ''This bloated Pig masters Wall Street, / This little Pig owns your home; / This war-crazed Pig had your brother killed. . . .'' 
 But you can't make an omelet without laying a few eggs, as any hen can tell you. And in the next few years, as America backs cautiously away from its laissez-faire disasters and reluctantly into an unfamiliar, communal style of politics, some of us may find ourselves wishing we had been scared with such rhymes in kindergarten instead of having had to live through them as adults. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: ''Mr. His,'' by A. Redfield (aka Syd Hoff), 1939. (DRAWING FROM ''TALES FOR LITTLE REBELS'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PARENTS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Tales for Little Rebels (Book)>; Tales for Little Rebels (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



358 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: First, a Dreadful Year. And Now the Tax Bill.

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
 MOST mutual fund investors endured horrendous losses in 2008, but the pain may not be over yet. After seeing their portfolios' values melt away like snowmen in the sun, many investors still need to pay taxes on their funds' dividends.
 ''People have a feeling they have been ambushed'' when this happens, said Michael Stolper, head of Stolper & Company, an investment manager in San Diego. ''It's counterintuitive. When the market is down big like this, it doesn't seem logical or reasonable or fair.'' 
 Nevertheless, many people will soon be receiving Form 1099s showing that they have taxable income from the dividends paid by their mutual funds.
 When markets plunged in the fall, many investors rushed to redeem shares, causing fund managers to sell some holdings to raise cash to make redemptions. And some managers had already sold some holdings and currency contracts. Whatever the reason for the sales, many resulted in capital gains. 
 Mutual funds are legally classified as pass-through entities, meaning they must pass along any net realized capital gains to shareholders as dividends. But most fund investors choose to have their dividends reinvested, and if they look only at the net value on their statements, the dividends paid may have escaped their notice. There is no current tax liability if the holding is in an I.R.A. or a tax-deferred retirement account like a 401(k), but if shares are held in a regular account, dividends are taxable. 
 Christine Benz, director of personal financial planning at Morningstar in Chicago, said certain fund categories -- notably those that specialize in Asian and developing markets -- were more vulnerable than others.
 Morningstar does not have a compendium of funds that made high distributions to shareholders in 2008, Ms. Benz said. But some examples that have attracted notice include Oppenheimer Developing Markets, which paid out $8.88 a share on Dec. 8, more than 35 percent of its net asset value just before the distribution. (The fund, by the way, was down 48 percent for 2008.) Others with high distributions included Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining, at almost 18 percent of net asset value; Tweedy Browne Global Value, about 15 percent; Tweedy Browne Value, 13 percent; and Dodge & Cox International, more than 10 percent.
 If your nest egg has shrunk, you probably won't be happy to pay capital gains tax. But at least taxes on capital gains and most dividends -- those labeled ''qualified'' on the 1099 -- are now low by historical standards. For most shareholders, the rate is 15 percent, and some will escape the tax entirely. 
 On 2008 returns, taxpayers in the regular 10 percent and 15 percent brackets will not be subject to capital gains taxes. That means taxable income for single filers below $32,550 and for married couples filing jointly below $65,100. 
 Mark Luscombe, a lawyer and accountant who is principal federal tax analyst for CCH, which publishes books and software for tax professionals, said that some people in the upper brackets would also escape the tax on their mutual fund dividends because they had capital losses on sales of other securities that would offset the fund income. Capital gains and losses are netted on tax returns, and if the result is a net capital loss, up to $3,000 can be taken against ordinary income and the rest carried forward to future years.
 Mutual funds that have a net loss are not allowed to pass the loss on to shareholders as they do gains. But they, too, can carry the loss forward to offset gains in future years. Therein lies an opportunity, Mr. Stolper said. 
 ''An embedded loss means shareholders can get a free ride back up the hill,'' he said. ''Everyone has this fear of buying now. There is a lot of cash, a lot of negativism. This is typically when markets begin to climb back up.'' 
 Ms. Benz said two fund categories that ''have big losses on their books'' were large-cap growth funds and technology funds, some of which never recovered fully from their losses of 2000-2.
 One lesson investors can learn from 2008, she said, is to consider holding income-producing funds in tax-deferred retirement accounts. The income can grow tax-free until retirement, when distributions are taxed at regular rates. For taxable accounts, she suggested index funds -- which typically have very low turnover and thus aren't likely to spring gains surprises -- or tax-managed funds. The Vanguard 500 Index fund had turnover of less than 5 percent last year. 
 She cautioned, however, that buyers should consider ''investment merits ahead of taxes,'' adding that taxes ''are a wild card,'' especially now with an economic crisis and an incoming administration and Congress. 
 If you sold fund holdings last year, Mr. Luscombe said, you should check past records of reinvested dividends. That could cut the tax liability because reinvested dividends become part of the cost basis. Say you initially invested $5,000 and over the years received 1099s reporting dividends and capital gains totaling $1,500, and, of course, paid the tax. Then, last year, you sold the holding for $8,000. The taxable gain is $1,500, not $3,000, so at least you won't be taxed twice on the fund's gains. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); TAX LAW (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (64%); MARRIAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



359 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2363 words

HEADLINE: When a Wealth of Food Options Dwindles to Two: Eat or Go Hungry

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
With specialty food stores and every kind of restaurant, New York is an eater's paradise for the well-to-do. But as the economy slows, more of the city's residents are struggling to pay for rent, utilities and other necessities without scrimping on food. Inexpensive foods are often calorie-dense but nutritionally deficient, and such a diet can contribute to health problems, including diabetes, which is increasing among the poor more than among the wealthy.
 More than 1.2 million New Yorkers receive food stamps, a 23 percent increase in five years. And with food prices rising, more people, including working families and retirees, are turning to food banks and food pantries. According to the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, emergency food providers reported serving 28 percent more people in 2008 than in 2007. But according to the coalition, nearly 69 percent of food pantries and food banks in 2008 reported not having enough food to meet demand, up from 59 percent in 2007. 
 The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund does not directly buy food, but the seven agencies it supports do operate food pantries and cafeterias. Often, drawing from the fund to pay for something else -- an electricity bill, clothing or furniture for an empty apartment -- means a person need not choose between buying a meal and covering another necessary expense. 
 Crisis, Strain and Hope: A Family's Balancing Act
 Soilange Villagran, 49, tapped on a computer keyboard at the Grace Institute on the Upper East Side. She looked well put together and cheerful, showing little sign of the strain she has been through in recent years. 
 ''I have a concept of presence -- it is very important,'' said Ms. Villagran, a mother of three, during a break from her computer class. But her body aches. She has lupus, a chronic autoimmune disease that attacks normal tissue. 
 Since her diagnosis in 2000, she has tried to manage her illness while confronting one family crisis after another. 
 In 2002, her youngest child, Diana Guijarro, now 11, struck her head on the concrete during school recess, causing brain damage. The accident changed her daughter from an outgoing child to one who tires easily and needs regular stimulation and therapy to improve her cognitive skills.
 The same year, her husband's sister died of cancer. Anguish struck again in 2003: her oldest children, Marcy Palacios, now 22, and Christian Palacios, now 23, were critically injured in a car accident. Their recovery was sure but slow. Both are now in college.
 More recently her husband, George Guijarro, 47, suffered a severe heart attack. No longer able to carry heavy equipment, in 2007 he lost his job as a contractor. ''I feel that we are fighting -- swimming against the waves,'' she said, then adding more hopefully, ''but then something comes.''
 Being accepted to the Grace Institute, she said, is affirmation that good things can happen. The institute is a beneficiary of Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 She found out about the agency last fall. Her husband persuaded her to accompany him to a job fair. While he was inquiring about a new career with the United Parcel Service, a job counselor gave her a number for the Grace Institute, which offers office training and administrative placement for women. The next day she went to their offices, where she took a typing test and was interviewed. She qualified for a scholarship. ''I felt like I won the lottery,'' she said.
 While she studied, her husband continued his efforts to find work. They used his $400 in weekly unemployment benefits to pay the $750 rent on their one-bedroom apartment -- a reconfigured storage room in Queens where they live with their youngest child -- and utilities. But there is little left for groceries: $80 every two weeks to buy lentils, beans, sardines, bread and, her biggest extravagance, milk.
 In October, Ms. Villagran could see that the financial strain was affecting Diana, who was becoming more despondent. 
 At the Grace Institute, a social worker offered help. ''She really needed a coat and something educational,'' said Ms. Villagran. They were items the family once could afford, but their money now goes exclusively to necessities, like putting food on the table. 
 Through Catholic Charities, Grace Institute was able to secure $250 from the Neediest Cases Fund for a new coat, some other clothes and music therapy -- in the form of seven piano lessons -- for Diana. ''It made a difference immediately,'' Ms. Villagran said. ''The piano wakes her senses and helps on her self-esteem.''
 Then, in the second week of December, Mr. Guijarro's unemployment benefits ended. 
 For the first time, Ms. Villagran lined up at a church food pantry, and she applied for emergency food stamps. 
 But just when things looked bleak, they got better. On Dec. 24, she learned that the Grace Institute had collected $160 for her. With that money she was able to pay a few bills and buy a $20 drugstore Christmas tree and a small bounty for a Christmas dinner. 
 Shortly after, an extension to her husband's unemployment benefits was approved. And she learned that the Neediest Cases Fund would cover the fee for her husband's commercial driver's license exam. 
 Their future looks brighter now, Ms. Villagran said. She will graduate on Feb. 2. With her certificate from the institute, and her husband's opportunity to get a new license, she is optimistic that they will find jobs. 
 ''I would like work in a hospital or a nonprofit,'' she said. ''I know I can be helpful to people who have been in pain. I understand what they have been through.''
 In Learning to Serve Others, Building a Skill Set to Serve Oneself
 Shatara Nieves is awakened by her mother at 6:30 a.m. She takes her 1-year-old son to day care before arriving at the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service on Schermerhorn Street, where she takes part in a food-service training program for learning and developmentally disabled adults. 
 She washes her hands, puts on a hairnet and ties on a plastic apron before getting to work. 
 ''When I first started I was nervous,'' said Ms. Nieves, 22. ''I didn't know what to do.''
 Now, after about six months of training, she feels at ease in the long, narrow kitchen. She can scramble and fry eggs and make toast, and knows how to properly present a meal on a plate before giving it to the customer. ''Now I feel great,'' she said. 
 Ms. Nieves is one of nine employees of a cafeteria that is operated by clients for clients. Their instructor, Herma Markland, who has managed the cafeteria for eight years, teaches them the importance of punctuality and to work together: collaboration is important in a kitchen. They also clean the grills and the refrigerated cases, and wash all the dishes. 
 On average, the cafeteria workers prepare 100 to 150 hot meals each weekday, earning earn $3 to $4 an hour. Ms. Nieves dreams of working at McDonald's. At a fast-food restaurant, she could earn minimum wage, $7.15 an hour. 
 But the cafeteria is not just a training ground for aspiring food-service workers; it is also part of the agency's goal of improving the lives of its clients, most of whom have a psychiatric or developmental disability. A hot, nutritious meal at the bureau's first-floor cafeteria plays a crucial role in keeping people healthy and stretching scant incomes a little further.
 Those in the day rehabilitation program, which offers vocational training and skills required for independent living, and those in Project Moving On, which offers counseling and support, receive vouchers for the meals, but those in workshops and a skills training program pay $1.75 per meal.
 A comparable lunch -- consisting of a hot entree, a piece of fruit and a beverage -- would cost three times as much outside the bureau, said Daniel Giuseffi, coordinator of skills training.
 The menu varies; on a recent Wednesday, the staff was preparing baked chicken wings and macaroni and cheese. ''We have a focus on wellness,'' Mr. Giuseffi said. The cafeteria follows state and federal nutritional guidelines. ''We are getting more and more away from fried foods,'' he added. 
 Sensitive to the clients' limited means, Mr. Giuseffi strives to keep the cafeteria prices low. But this past year, with the rise in food costs, the $7,000 monthly budget was falling short. The cafeteria is not subsidized by the government and does not make a profit. It seemed Mr. Giuseffi's only choice was to raise the prices for the meals. 
 Then the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service came up with a solution: The bureau, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, decided to draw $350 a month from the fund to cover the increase in costs. 
 Michael Montgomery, who has been a client in Project Moving On for the past four years, is thankful that prices remained unchanged. ''My money is tight,'' he said. ''It really helps.''
 Even a small increase might mean that some patrons would choose not to eat, Mr. Giuseffi said. ''Nutrition is an important part of education. By providing an affordable meal, it really gets their day started right.'' 
 $74 in Food Stamps Doesn't Go Far Enough at the Grocery Store
 Around the 10th of the month, Margaret Callahan maneuvers a small cart down six flights of stairs to the supermarket one block from her one-bedroom apartment in Astoria, Queens.
 As she pushes the cart slowly down each aisle in the store, she surveys her choices, checks prices and calculates how much she can afford on the $74 that she receives monthly in food stamps. 
 She also considers her diabetes, she said. ''If I eat stuff I'm not supposed to, my body acts up right away.'' 
 ''I buy some vegetables, milk, fruit, cold cuts,'' she said. ''I try to buy stuff on sale as much as I can.'' 
 At the register, she swipes her food stamp debit card and taps in a PIN. (Paper coupons were replaced with electronic benefits and debit cards starting in 1994.)
 Food stamps, plus $1,200 a month from Social Security, is all she has to live on. ''I have no savings, no bonds, no C.D.'s. Nothing.'' 
 Ms. Callahan, 64, who is single, had to stop working in 1992 because of poor health. She had been in the accounts receivable department at Smith Barney for nine and a half years. ''I just couldn't deal with asthma attacks -- I was in the hospital all the time,'' she said. In addition to diabetes and severe asthma, she has high cholesterol.
 ''I have good medical coverage, but I have to pay a co-pay,'' she said. After paying $563.96 for rent and her utilities, she said she has barely enough to cover co-payments for medications, leaving little for emergency or discretionary purposes.
 ''My check doesn't go so far -- it only stretches so much.''
 More often than not, the food stamps do not last the month, she said. Then she dips into her emergency pocket money. On occasion, she says, she borrows from friends. ''It is not much -- I borrow $20 here, $20 there, but that is it.''
 ''But I have to pay them back, and they never have to come look for me; I always go looking for them,'' she said. 
 Living on such a tight budget, she has come to depend on her church. In the 29 years that she has lived in the apartment, she has attended St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church in Astoria. Every Thursday night, she is there, her cart in tow, to receive a bag of food: canned soup, macaroni, spaghetti, fruit and sometimes a loaf of bread. She has also relied on a food pantry, run by Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, in the Queens North Community Center. Catholic Charities is one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 ''I don't go there very often; only at the point my back is against the wall,'' she said.
 Because of the economy, more people are visiting the food pantry, said Sha-nae Anderson, Ms. Callahan's caseworker.
 Ms. Anderson added that money from the Neediest Cases Fund helped Catholic Charities provide people in distress with emergency money so they do not have to choose between eating and paying bills. Last summer, it was a choice Ms. Callahan feared she might have to make. 
 Ms. Callahan's asthma requires that she use air-conditioning during the hot months. She managed to pay her high summer Con Edison bill but not her entire Verizon bill. 
 Ms. Anderson used $123.99 from the Neediest Cases Fund to pay for Ms. Callahan's telephone arrears. 
 ''I really need my phone,'' Ms. Callahan said. ''What if I have to call 911?'' 
 How to Help
 Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to:
 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. 
 All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. Checks intended for a particular Neediest agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest gift.
 BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, NY 11217 (718) 310-5600
 THE CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, NY 10022 (212) 371-1000
 CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, NY 11201 (718) 722-6000
 THE CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 949-4800
 THE COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 254-8900
 THE FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES, INC 281 Park Avenue South New York, NY 10010 (212) 777-4800
 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, NY 10261-4100 (212) 980-1000 
 For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 730- 0927. 
 No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. 
 Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. 
 To delay may mean to forget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (93%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); FAMILY (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); LUPUS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); CHILDREN (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); DIABETES (71%); CANCER (67%); HEAD INJURIES (66%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (65%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); HEART DISEASE (62%); DISMISSALS (60%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (60%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (60%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



360 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW YORK BY THE NUMBERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Neighborhoods, Up Close and Personal

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
EVEN if the latest economic slump stunts the explosion of New York's population before the end of the decade, you can count on the fact that the city's proverbial changing neighborhoods will keep changing. 
Detailed census figures released last month and analyzed for The New York Times by Andrew Beveridge, chairman of the sociology department at Queens College, reveal just how vividly many neighborhoods have changed since 2000.
Through 2007, more whites moved to Harlem.
More young children live in Lower Manhattan, the Upper West Side and the Upper East Side.
In Flatbush, 40 percent fewer residents lacked a high school diploma in 2007 than in 2000.
The rich got richer: In 2000, the richest neighborhood was the Upper East Side; in 2007, it was the bottom tip of Manhattan. The poorest, both years, was the South Bronx, which got even poorer.
The Rockaways registered the biggest percentage gain in population. Coney Island had the biggest loss.
The number of blacks in southern Staten Island grew by half; Elmhurst lost 1 in 3. Asians recorded the greatest gains in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, and Hispanics in Bay Ridge.
Among people who don't speak English at home, the Upper East Side lost the largest share, while southern Staten Island gained the most.
The accompanying graphic shows other highlights of how each neighborhood has changed since 2000. The districts correspond to the community districts created by law in 1975; a few are combined because the data were released by the Census Bureau for areas of at least 100,000 in population. All percentages have been rounded off to the nearest whole number.
Correction: January 18, 2009, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about changes in New York neighborhoods as revealed in census data referred incorrectly to employment figures in Community District 7 of Queens, an area comprising Flushing, Whitestone and College Point. The district had 45 percent more unemployed workers in 2007 than in 2000 -- not 45 percent more employed workers.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CHILDREN (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011



361 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: $74 in Food Stamps Doesn't Go Far Enough at the Grocery Store

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
Around the 10th of the month, Margaret Callahan maneuvers a small cart down six flights of stairs to the supermarket one block from her one-bedroom apartment in Astoria, Queens.
 As she pushes the cart slowly down each aisle in the store, she surveys her choices, checks prices and calculates how much she can afford on the $74 that she receives monthly in food stamps. 
 She also considers her diabetes, she said. ''If I eat stuff I'm not supposed to, my body acts up right away.'' 
 ''I buy some vegetables, milk, fruit, cold cuts,'' she said. ''I try to buy stuff on sale as much as I can.'' 
 At the register, she swipes her food stamp debit card and taps in a PIN. (Paper coupons were replaced with electronic benefits and debit cards starting in 1994.)
 Food stamps, plus $1,200 a month from Social Security, is all she has to live on. ''I have no savings, no bonds, no C.D.'s. Nothing.'' 
 Ms. Callahan, 64, who is single, had to stop working in 1992 because of poor health. She had been in the accounts receivable department at Smith Barney for nine and a half years. ''I just couldn't deal with asthma attacks -- I was in the hospital all the time,'' she said. In addition to diabetes and severe asthma, she has high cholesterol.
 ''I have good medical coverage, but I have to pay a co-pay,'' she said. After paying $563.96 for rent and her utilities, she said she has barely enough to cover co-payments for medications, leaving little for emergency or discretionary purposes.
 ''My check doesn't go so far -- it only stretches so much.''
 More often than not, the food stamps do not last the month, she said. Then she dips into her emergency pocket money. On occasion, she says, she borrows from friends. ''It is not much -- I borrow $20 here, $20 there, but that is it.''
 ''But I have to pay them back, and they never have to come look for me; I always go looking for them,'' she said. 
 Living on such a tight budget, she has come to depend on her church. In the 29 years that she has lived in the apartment, she has attended St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church in Astoria. Every Thursday night, she is there, her cart in tow, to receive a bag of food: canned soup, macaroni, spaghetti, fruit and sometimes a loaf of bread. She has also relied on a food pantry, run by Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, in the Queens North Community Center. Catholic Charities is one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 ''I don't go there very often; only at the point my back is against the wall,'' she said.
 Because of the economy, more people are visiting the food pantry, said Sha-nae Anderson, Ms. Callahan's caseworker.
 Ms. Anderson added that money from the Neediest Cases Fund helped Catholic Charities provide people in distress with emergency money so they do not have to choose between eating and paying bills. Last summer, it was a choice Ms. Callahan feared she might have to make. 
 Ms. Callahan's asthma requires that she use air-conditioning during the hot months. She managed to pay her high summer Con Edison bill but not her entire Verizon bill. 
 Ms. Anderson used $123.99 from the Neediest Cases Fund to pay for Ms. Callahan's telephone arrears. 
 ''I really need my phone,'' Ms. Callahan said. ''What if I have to call 911?'' 
 How to Help
 Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to:
 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. 
 All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. Checks intended for a particular Neediest agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest gift.
 BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, NY 11217 (718) 310-5600
 THE CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, NY 10022 (212) 371-1000
 CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, NY 11201 (718) 722-6000
 THE CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 949-4800
 THE COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 254-8900
 THE FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES, INC 281 Park Avenue South New York, NY 10010 (212) 777-4800
 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, NY 10261-4100 (212) 980-1000 
 For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 730- 0927. 
 No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. 
 Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. 
 To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Margaret Callahan's fixed income does not cover her food costs, so she sometimes needs to borrow money or visit a food pantry.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DEBIT CARDS (90%); FOOD STAMPS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); RELIGION (86%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); CHARITIES (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); DIABETES (71%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (69%); ASTHMA (65%); RETAIL COUPONS (58%); CHOLESTEROL (51%)

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



362 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; DETROIT AUTO SHOW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's Show: Less Exuberant, More Rational

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
DETROIT is reeling. Its automakers teeter on the edge of bankruptcy, the unemployment rate hovers around double digits, its flamboyant former mayor is in jail. Houses are advertised for as little as $1 and its professional football team just finished with a 0-16 record, an N.F.L. first for regular-season play.
But it is showtime again in Motown, so the embattled city is doing its best to affect a festive atmosphere for thousands of journalists and industry insiders arriving for the North American International Auto Show. Despite the hospitality -- and exciting prospects for the electrification of America's vehicle fleet -- it seems likely this will be the most subdued Detroit show in decades. A celebration of the automobile that was optimistic and bombastic in normal times may end up feeling more like a wake for a once-thriving industry. 
''The 2009 N.A.I.A.S. will be a pretty gloomy affair -- low key, attendance down by journalists, analysts and major brands, glitz definitely down,'' George Peterson, president of AutoPacific, a market research firm in Tustin, Calif., wrote in an e-mail message. This year, he added, automakers will try to appear prudent -- not blazing through marketing dollars. Mr. Peterson said he thought Detroit's long-running industry showcase would retreat to its more modest, pre-1989 roots, before it took on the role (and name) of being North America's auto show. That would turn the clock back to when automakers and dealerships catered more to hometown tire-kickers than to globe-trotting jet-setters.
Contrasts between last year's raucous gathering and this year's leaner get-together are likely to be stark. In 2008, to lend some cowboy swagger to its redesigned Dodge Ram pickup, Chrysler staged a cattle drive of 120 Texas Longhorns through downtown streets.
And for the debut last year of its new F-150 pickup, Ford had a noisy pyrotechnic show starring the country singer Toby Keith. At a high-decibel kickoff party and fashion show called GM Style, Detroit's mayor, Kwame Kilpatrick, tried to dance with General Motors' vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz.
In 2009 no one should expect stampedes, fireworks or a hip-hopping mayor. (Last October, Mr. Kilpatrick began serving a 120-day jail sentence after pleading guilty to charges of obstruction of justice and assault.) The show's organizers say that about 20 new car and truck models will make their global debuts, far fewer than in recent years. Combined with another two dozen or so vehicles that were previously shown outside North America, the Detroit unveilings are expected to be -- for the most part -- green-tinged, low-key and frill-free.
Three days of media previews begin Sunday, to be followed by two days of industry-only attendance, and then nine days for the public.
Yet the target audience for this show's press days isn't so much those who will be in Cobo Center. Rather, the automakers will be playing to the Washington lawmakers who recently threw a financial lifeline to Chrysler and General Motors in the form of emergency loans. Congress will no doubt be watching how this taxpayer money is being used.
Ford, G.M., Honda and Toyota will be among those showing new hybrid, electric and alternative-fuel vehicles, emphasizing sustainability and environmental sensitivity. Models that celebrate extreme horsepower, avant-garde styling and macho attitude are likely be played down and rolled out with little or no fanfare.
In a development unprecedented in recent memory, some major manufacturers -- including Nissan, Infiniti, Mitsubishi, Suzuki, Land Rover, Porsche, Ferrari and Rolls-Royce -- have chosen to skip the show altogether. They cited a desire to spend their promotional dollars at events that they say are aimed more directly at their customers.
Mercedes-Benz is saving the cost of a press conference for its new E-Class sedan by unveiling the car off-site, rather than inside the convention center, the night before the press previews begin. The E-Class will not be displayed at the auto show, although new fuel-saving technologies in three concept vehicles will be. BMW will have its new Z4 sports car here in a display area less grand than originally planned. G.M. was hoping to save more than $1 million just by switching its display area's flooring to carpeting instead of wood and tile.
In recent years, the economic impact of the two weeks of the auto show on the Detroit metro area was estimated by the show organizers to be as much as $580 million. This year, the estimates have been scaled back to less than $350 million.
With the stagecraft toned down this year, the cars will become the focus of attention. G.M. and Ford each plan six introductions, including important new models like the Buick LaCrosse, Cadillac SRX, Lincoln MKT and Ford Taurus. Chrysler is introducing three prototype electric vehicles, including the Dodge Circuit EV sports car. Toyota has two new hybrid electric introductions here as well as the tiny FT-EV.
There will also be nine new designs from Chinese manufacturers, who were for the first time allotted space on the main show floor -- previously they were relegated to Cobo's basement or entry hallways -- even though their cars are not yet sold in the United States.
Overseas-based automakers continue to gain not only floor space at this show, but market share as well. The combined United States market share of Ford, G.M. and Chrysler fell to 47.5 percent last year, from 51 percent in 2007, according to Autodata, an industry analysis firm, which noted that this was the first time the Detroit Three had fallen below 50 percent. Asian brands accounted for 44.6 percent of the sales in the American market last year, and European brands for 7.8 percent.
But many of these so-called foreign automakers, like Toyota, Nissan, Honda, Mercedes-Benz, BMW and Hyundai, produce significant numbers of vehicles in the United States, Canada and Mexico. In that sense, they are all a part of the American auto industry, and all are affected by the problems of the industry and the economy -- a reality that will be reflected in their show displays.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUFFET STYLE: Starting out the year with something for every taste, clockwise from top: 2010 Cadillac SRX crossover
Dodge Circuit electric sports car
2010 Buick LaCrosse sedan
Toyota FT-EV city car
and 2010 Mercedes-Benz E-Class luxury sedan.
ON DECK: The 2009 BMW Z4 and 2010 Ford Taurus are showroom-bound
 the Mercedes-Benz BlueZERO is a design study. (pg.AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); WRITERS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); COUNTRY MUSIC (67%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); FASHION SHOWS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (51%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: TOBY KEITH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011



363 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2875 words

HEADLINE: The Happiest Meal: Hot Profits

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

DATELINE: Tinton Falls, N.J. 

 BODY:
 CHRIS WARD, 23, didn't go to McDonald's much because it wasn't open late enough for after-hours snacks.
 Casey Fillian, 32, and her friend Carol Milano, 33, gave up their teenage McDonald's habit when they became more health-conscious adults.
 And Russ Green, 47, wouldn't go to McDonald's because, among other things, he thought its food was unhealthy.
 Yet here all four of them are, lined up at McDonald's one recent morning, lured back by new menu items, longer hours and a sparkling new building that includes flat-screen televisions and video games for children. 
 Mr. Ward says he's a regular again because his McDonald's is open until 1 a.m. Ms. Fillian and Ms. Milano, now moms, say they often bring their children to the playroom and feel no guilt serving them apple slices and white-meat Chicken McNuggets. Mr. Green was drawn back in -- grudgingly -- because McDonald's lattes are cheaper and more convenient than those at Starbucks.
 It wasn't too long ago that McDonald's, vilified as making people fat, was written off as irrelevant. Now, six years into a rebound spawned by more appealing food and a less aggressive expansion, McDonald's seems to have won over some of its most hardened skeptics.
 The chain has managed to sustain its momentum even as the economy and the restaurant industry as a whole are struggling. Month after month, McDonald's has surprised analysts by posting stronger-than-expected sales in the United States and abroad. 
 As of November, the latest data available, the company had delivered 55 consecutive months of increases in global same-store sales. During a year when the stock market lost a third of its value -- its worst performance since the Great Depression -- shares of McDonald's gained nearly 6 percent, making the company one of only two in the Dow Jones industrial average whose share price rose in 2008. (The other was Wal-Mart.)
 David Kolpak, an analyst at Victory Capital Management in Cleveland, says he has been recommending McDonald's stock to investors since 2002, when the chief executive, Jack M. Greenberg, resigned after a tumultuous tenure.
 ''I've been doing this for 18 years, and I've never recommended a stock for this long in my life,'' Mr. Kolpak said. ''It's been an amazing ride.'' 
 McDonald's hasn't silenced nutritional critics; some of its salads come festooned with fried chicken. The economy has also entered such a brutal downturn that the next year is likely to prove difficult for even the strongest and most nimble of companies. 
 ''I was asked if we were recession-proof. And I said: 'No, we are recession-resistant. I don't know if we are depression-resistant,' '' says Jim Skinner, the company's current chief executive. 
 Still, here in Tinton Falls, the mood is buoyant. The owner of this franchise, Ken Hullings, says McDonald's lacked direction when he acquired the store in 1998, so much so that his wife asked him, ''Are we in trouble?''
 But he says that a relentless focus in recent years on improving store operations and measuring progress has helped the four McDonald's locations he now owns to thrive.
 ''It seemed like every other month I was putting something on the menu or taking something off,'' he says. ''We were looking for that magic bullet, that magic pill. And I think what we realized that it wasn't just one thing.''
 FROM the time when Ray Kroc decided to franchise the McDonald brothers' fast-food concept in 1955 and transformed the way Americans eat, he preached the motto of quality, service, cleanliness and value. McDonald's incorporated those goals into its mission statement as it became a ubiquitous purveyor of burgers and shakes.
 By the mid-1990s, however, McDonald's was struggling to find its identity amid a flurry of new competitors and changing consumer tastes. The company careened from one failed idea to another.
 It tried to keep pace by offering pizza, toasted deli sandwiches and the Arch Deluxe, a heavily advertised new burger that flopped. It bought into nonburger franchises like Chipotle and Boston Market.
 It also tinkered with its menu, no longer toasting the buns, switching pickles and changing the special sauce on Big Macs.
 None of it worked.
 ''There were 14 changes over the years to that sauce, all relatively small,'' but cumulatively they took a toll, says Fred L. Turner, one of the company's first employees, who became the company's second chief executive, after Mr. Kroc, in 1974, and held that post until 1987. ''The food got off track.''
 All the while, McDonald's continued opening new restaurants at a ferocious pace, as many as 2,000 a year. The new stores helped sales, but customer service and cleanliness declined because the company couldn't hire and train good workers fast enough.
 Sales at existing stores, meanwhile, were sluggish and started to decline.
 ''We got distracted from the most important thing: hot, high-quality food at a great value at the speed and convenience of McDonald's,'' said Mr. Skinner, the chief executive.
 John Glass, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, was blunter. ''They were just alienating people that wanted to go there, actively dissuading people,'' he said, noting the changes to the menu and the fact that McDonald's stopped grading restaurants on service and cleanliness. 
 At the same time, McDonald's increasingly became a target for animal-rights activists, environmentalists and nutritionists, who accused the chain of contributing to the nation's obesity epidemic with ''super size'' French fries and sodas as well as Happy Meals that offered the reward of free toys.
 That tattered image was beaten down further by the 2001 best-seller ''Fast Food Nation.'' At the beginning of 2003, McDonald's suffered its first quarterly loss in history, and its stock was tanking. Yet by the time a popular, and critical, documentary, ''Super Size Me,'' about McDonald's came out in 2004, the company's comeback was already under way. 
 James R. Cantalupo, a McDonald's veteran who had led the company's international expansion, was brought back from retirement during the company's dark days. He pushed McDonald's to court more customers in existing restaurants rather than trying to snare them by opening new franchises.
 He also helped to write an internal playbook, what McDonald's now calls its ''Plan to Win,'' that barely fits on a single sheet of paper -- a text that is treated as sacred inside the company. It lays out where McDonald's wants to be and how it plans to get there, all of this revolving around the ''five P's'': people, products, place, price and promotion.
 While the five P's smack of corny corporate speak, company officials maintain that they profoundly changed the direction of McDonald's and have given employees -- from the chief executive to the store manager -- a framework for prioritizing what they do.
 For instance, the company's mission was changed from ''being the world's best quick-service restaurant'' to being ''our customers' favorite place and way to eat,'' said Larry Light, who was the company's global chief marketing officer at the time.
 That shift in emphasis forced McDonald's employees to focus on quality, service and restaurant experience rather than simply providing the cheapest, most convenient option to customers. 
 It also recognized that consumer patterns had changed -- more snacking, more drive-through -- and McDonald's needed to adapt.
 ''Frequency is important, but we wanted people to frequent us because they favor us,'' says Mr. Light, who agreed to work at McDonald's for three years before returning to his consulting business in 2006.
 IN the months and years after the Plan to Win was introduced, restaurants were redecorated and in some cases rebuilt. The drive-through, which accounts for 60 percent of the chain's business in the United States, was reconfigured to become more efficient.
 Stores were opened earlier to extend breakfast hours and stayed open longer to capture late-night diners; 34 percent of McDonald's restaurants in the United States are now open 24 hours a day.
 Employee training improved and so did the advertising, which has centered on the successful ''I'm Loving It'' campaign. Mr. Turner was summoned back from retirement to restore the quality of the core menu.
 McDonald's scrapped its super-size menu and added healthier options like salads and apple slices, which lured moms and got the critics off its back. McNuggets were changed to include only white meat, ending the mystery-meat jokes, and milk was offered in small bottles rather than cartons.
 Executives pored over data to determine what consumers were eating and drinking and where McDonald's could expand to capitalize on changing trends. Beef consumption was flat, but people were eating more chicken, so McDonald's ''went at chicken hard,'' said Ralph Alvarez, the company's president and chief operating officer.
 In recent years, it has added a grilled chicken sandwich, wraps with chicken, a Southern-style chicken sandwich and, most recently, chicken for breakfast. Chicken sales at McDonald's have doubled since 2002, and it now buys more chicken worldwide than beef, Mr. Alvarez said.
 McDonald's also set about becoming a favorite destination for drinks. For decades, it offered a limited assortment of beverages, and customers typically bought them as an afterthought to a sandwich.
 ''We sat there saying: 'There are all these convenience stores and coffee houses that are driven by beverages. We're missing out,' '' Mr. Alvarez says.
 McDonald's improved its coffee by buying higher-quality beans, using better equipment and filtering its water. The company even upgraded the cream, which 60 percent of its customers used.
 In the two years since McDonald's introduced premium coffee, sales of drip coffee are up 70 percent, Mr. Alvarez said.
 The Plan to Win wasn't confined to the United States. In foreign markets, McDonald's largely turned over leadership to native-born employees who had a better feel for local nuances. Europe now accounts for 38 percent of the company's profit. 
 Bob Goldin, executive vice president at Technomic, a food industry consulting firm, said the McDonald's rebound had been singular because of its simplicity: ''execute the basics, flawlessly.'' 
 He described the McDonald's strategy as ''three yards and a cloud of dust,'' adding that ''it's not revolution stuff.''
 Some people argue that a little more revolution on the McDonald's menu would be welcome.
 Kelly D. Brownell, director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale University, says the McDonald's menu encourages people to eat unhealthy foods because choices like cheeseburgers are so much cheaper than salads, for example. 
 Nonetheless, he credits the chain as being more responsible than some of its competitors that market megaburgers.
 ''As fast-food restaurants go, McDonald's has been pretty progressive,'' he says. ''If you look at the last five years, McDonald's has introduced some better foods and resisted the urge to offer bigger burgers.''
 But Mr. Brownell still doesn't consider himself a McDonald's convert. He maintains that Americans would be better off without it.
 MR. SKINNER, who has been in charge at McDonald's since November 2004, is not your typical corporate titan, and that may explain why his name isn't on the short list of celebrity chief executives who are regularly featured on the covers of business magazines (and are now struggling to stay afloat).
 He is the son of an Iowa bricklayer and never graduated from college. He began his career at McDonald's flipping burgers, and he continues to eat there every day, favoring a quarter-pounder with no cheese or condiments. He was named chief executive after one chief died and the successor became ill. (Mr. Cantalupo died of a heart attack in 2004; Charlie Bell of colon cancer, in early 2005.)
 In addition, Mr. Skinner, 64, is quick to credit the Plan to Win and his colleagues for his company's success, at least to a point. He also says the ''alignment of the organization'' has been a pivotal factor in its success.
 ''Right people in the right place, and a succession plan,'' he said. ''It's the best ever.'' 
 There's no denying that during Mr. Skinner's tenure, McDonald's has posted the best financial results in its history. The stock price has climbed handsomely in recent years; it reached its highest point ever in August: $67 a share. It closed on Friday at $60.07. 
 Mr. Skinner appears to enjoy mingling with his co-workers, whether in the hallways of the campuslike headquarters, in suburban Chicago, or behind the counter of one of the restaurants.
 ''Am I in the way?'' he asks a cashier, scooting behind a McDonald's counter for a photo session. ''I don't touch the cash register. I don't know anything about them.''
 Finally positioning himself, he shouts: ''How am I doing, people?''
 Given the recent track record of McDonald's, the response is overwhelmingly positive. Mr. Skinner is a low-key and straight-shooting leader who has resisted the temptation to make changes at the company simply to put his own stamp on the job, admirers say.
 ''I can't think of anybody in the retail space who has had that kind of run,'' says Mr. Goldin at Technomic. ''He's a regular guy who came up through the ranks and understands what moves the business.''
 John W. Rogers Jr., a McDonald's board member since 2003, likens Mr. Skinner to Red Holzman, the New York Knicks coach who won two championships with a collection of superstars.
 ''To be able to retain that kind of talent and get them to work together as a team takes special leadership skills,'' Mr. Rogers says. ''He's created an environment where these guys have been allowed to shine.''
 Mr. Skinner, who worked briefly at McDonald's in high school before joining the Navy, decided to join the chain permanently after a fellow sailor gave him the idea. After he was discharged from the Navy, Mr. Skinner found a job in 1971 as a McDonald's management trainee.
 He rose steadily through the ranks, eventually overseeing operations in Europe and Asia, the Middle East and Africa. He was the company's vice chairman -- at the time one of the top three executive positions -- before being named chief executive.
 He says restaurant experience is invaluable for McDonald's executives because they learn the ''fear of failure.'' 
 ''They know they have to perform,'' he says. ''You don't get a bye because you walked in off the street and went to Harvard.''
 Mr. Skinner is a strong believer in the Plan to Win. The results of that push are evident in Tinton Falls, where Mr. Hullings, the franchisee, reopened a rebuilt restaurant in September. 
 It replaced a 36-year-old restaurant -- weighed down by a sterile, cafeteria-style decor -- with a sleek new building that offers two drive-through lanes, trendy furnishings and lights, wide-screen televisions and Wi-Fi connections.
 A new play area in the restaurant features video games and stationary bicycles with video screens.
 ''The customers love it,'' Mr. Hullings says. Sales have increased 20 percent, he says, since the reopening. ''Customers come in and their mouths drop, like 'Wow.' ''
 Mr. Hullings's new restaurant also includes a machine that cranks out lattes and cappuccinos in 45 seconds at the push of a few buttons -- an initiative called McCafe.
 Eventually, McDonald's hopes to add equipment to make smoothies and coolers that offer bottled beverages like sports and energy drinks.
 Whereas many of the chain's recent innovations have been warmly embraced by investors and franchise owners, the McCafe plan has met with some resistance. Some wonder whether the effort could become a costly distraction, perhaps this decade's Arch Deluxe.
 Others say they don't expect it to be a big hit, or a total failure. ''I don't think it's a perfect economy for specialty coffee,'' says Mr. Glass, the analyst. 
 Executives at McDonald's say they remain bullish on the McCafe plan, and so does Mr. Hullings. To date, McCafe has been installed in 6,500 of McDonald's more than 14,000 stores nationwide. ''It will be fine,'' Mr. Hullings said. ''People will still treat themselves occasionally.''
 HE and his bosses are also optimistic about the prospects for 2009, even as the restaurant industry contracts amid closings and bankruptcies. On Thursday, in a further sign of the nation's economic woes, Wal-Mart -- the McDonald's of retail -- reported lower-than-expected same-store sales for December.
 Whatever happens in the United States, McDonald's believes it has enormous opportunities to expand abroad, in places like Eastern and Central Europe. Mr. Alvarez, the company's president, says that in the United States, McDonald's can still win the hearts of customers like Mr. Green, the reluctant latte buyer.
 Mr. Alvarez noted that some of the early changes in the Plan to Win -- better-looking salads, white-meat McNuggets, milk in a bottle -- were intended to alter people's perceptions of McDonald's and get them back into the store, even if they continued to disparage the chain. 
 Eventually, the company won people over.
 Will lattes do the same thing? Absolutely, says Mr. Alvarez. ''The lesson there is, be patient.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the last few years, McDonald's has reworked its menu, extended its hours and improved drive-throughs. In the United States, 60 percent of the chain's revenue is passed through a window. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
One analyst called Jim Skinner, the C.E.O. of McDonald's, ''a regular guy who came up through the ranks and understands what moves the business.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Initially missing out on a beverage boom at convenience stores and coffee shops, McDonald's added the McCafe for speedy lattes and cappuccinos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU8) CHART: GOLDEN PROFITS AT MCDONALD'S: The sales and share price of McDonald's have soared in the past six years. Though the company has been opening fewer locations, more customers are eating at the chain, driving up sales at existing restaurants. While Europe has fewer restaurants than the United States, it is the highest-earning region -- mainly because of higher traffic, higher prices and the number of company-owned restaurants. (Sources: McDonald's
 Bloomberg) (pg.BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (85%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); NUTRITION (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); RETAIL SALES (69%); SAME STORE SALES (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); SALES PROJECTIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (55%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (52%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (52%)

PERSON: JIM SKINNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



364 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: When a Wealth of Food Options Dwindles to Two: Eat or Go Hungry

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
With specialty food stores and every kind of restaurant, New York is an eater's paradise for the well-to-do. But as the economy slows, more of the city's residents are struggling to pay for rent, utilities and other necessities without scrimping on food. Inexpensive foods are often calorie-dense but nutritionally deficient, and such a diet can contribute to health problems, including diabetes, which is increasing among the poor more than among the wealthy. 
More than 1.2 million New Yorkers receive food stamps, a 23 percent increase in five years. And with food prices rising, more people, including working families and retirees, are turning to food banks and food pantries. According to the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, emergency food providers reported serving 28 percent more people in 2008 than in 2007. But according to the coalition, nearly 69 percent of food pantries and food banks in 2008 reported not having enough food to meet demand, up from 59 percent in 2007.
The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund does not directly buy food, but the seven agencies it supports do operate food pantries and cafeterias. Often, drawing from the fund to pay for something else -- an electricity bill, clothing or furniture for an empty apartment -- means a person need not choose between buying a meal and covering another necessary expense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (93%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); FAMILY (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); DIABETES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



365 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; DISPATCHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Even in the Clouds, the View Just Gets Bleaker

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
ON a clear day, looking south from the 65th-floor windows at the Rainbow Room, you can see all the way to Sandy Hook, N.J. To the north, the view stretches more than 30 miles to Hook Mountain, in Upper Nyack, N.Y. Wednesday, though, was not a clear day, and when people with early dinner reservations at the restaurant, atop Rockefeller Center, stepped off the express elevators, all they saw outside was a thick, cloudy whiteness.
 This sort of weather occurs just a few times a year. Still, it was enough to make J. J. Masis, a bartender since 1988 at the Rainbow Room and the adjoining Rainbow Grill, a bit anxious. ''People come to see the view,'' he said simply. When it is not there, they leave disappointed. 
 He was speaking, it turned out, in the middle of a pivotal week in the Rainbow Room's history. Days earlier, the Cipriani restaurant company, which runs the space, had announced that the tanking economy was forcing it to eliminate dinner service in the Grill. And two days later -- though nobody in the room knew it yet -- Cipriani's landlord, the real estate giant Tishman Speyer, would announce that it was moving to evict the company for unpaid rent.
 What that news, on Friday morning, means for the Rainbow Room, the legendary hangout of Frank Sinatra and countless notables before and since, is unclear. Tishman Speyer said it was seeking a new restaurateur to operate the sprawling space; as it stood in recent years, the Rainbow Room itself was open only for weekend dinner and dancing, Sunday brunch and special events. The changes hanging in the air, though, all felt symbolic, suggesting that the recession's long reach extends even to the 65th floor of Rockefeller Center, to a place that has stood for urban panache since the Great Depression.
 By 6 p.m. on Wednesday, the clouds had parted for a while and most of Downtown Manhattan was visible. It was this vista, not any particular history, that had drawn Deborah Purcell and Serge Van Dycke, an Australian couple who were visiting New York. They had heard about the view on a tour bus, and Ms. Purcell, who works in advertising sales, had some ideas for improving business.
 ''Somewhere downstairs really needs to be some sort of advertising: 'Frank Sinatra drank here, ate here,' '' she mused, sitting by a window in the Grill and facing downtown. ''A romantic setting of two people looking out.''
 Mr. Van Dycke ordered another round of drinks. Ms. Purcell winced a little -- their cocktails were more than $20 apiece.
 By the bar, Mr. Masis and Joseph Cervasio, the maitre d', were taking advantage of a slow moment to gaze outside in a moment of prelapsarian peace. 
 ''He'll tell you, I'll tell you, every single one of the waiters will tell you, it never gets old working here,'' Mr. Cervasio said. 
 ''A lot of people say this is one of the greatest views on earth,'' Mr. Masis added.
 Both men fell silent and spent a long moment with their thoughts. Then they headed back to work.
 At a small round table by the window, Eileen and Tom Maloney of Bellerose, Queens, married 42 years, were finishing an after-dinner Scotch. The couple met at the Rainbow Room on a blind date in 1966 and got engaged there in 1967. They have returned most every year, even when their two daughters were young and money was tight.
 ''It was kind of our special place,'' she said. ''I know it belongs to New York, but it was our place.''
 Hicham Derdari, captain of the wait staff, checked on them, then stepped through a door next to the bar into the historic Rainbow Room, where rows of chairs had been set up for a speech the next day. Cipriani had been lobbying city government to give the space landmark protection, and Mr. Derdari, who eats dinner there even on his days off, said he was thinking of writing to the mayor and the Landmarks Preservation Commission in support.
 Mr. Derdari, who is Moroccan, said he had waited on powerful men like the Israeli leaders Shimon Peres and Benjamin Netanyahu, among many others. They all seem to leave their anger and disagreements at the door, he said. 
 A young couple, he in a blazer and she in a black dress, poked their heads in. ''They said we can just have a look,'' the man said.
 ''Yes, yes, come in,'' Mr. Derdari replied, smiling. ''You can dance, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (76%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); EVICTION (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); CITIES (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



366 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; COUNTY LINES OSSINING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Caught in the Middle, Without Health Insurance

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: OSSINING 

 BODY:
 WALK into one of the four clinics in Westchester operated by Open Door Family Medical Centers and most of the seats in the waiting area are filled with immigrant day laborers or other low-wage men and women and their children. 
 But not all the seats. Increasingly, Open Door's doctors and administrators report, middle-class professionals, small-scale businesspersons, artisans or young people just out of college and flying life's trapeze without a medical insurance net are wandering into these clinics designed for the poor, driving right up to the door in a BMW or otherwise offering a dead giveaway to their once comfortable status. 
 Their using a clinic for the poor is a sign not only of our grim times, with 7 percent of the nation out of work, but of a breakdown in the nation's health care system that has left 47 million Americans without the insurance coverage to afford a doctor.
 ''The medical system in this country is broken,'' is the way Dr. Daren Wu, Open Door's chief medical officer, puts it.
 The newcomers are people like Gary Schwartz, 47, a professional drummer who has suffered with diabetes since childhood and lost his insurance after a divorce from his wife, who had insurance. His longtime doctor, he said, would no longer see him once the insurance stopped. 
 ''I was going into credit-card debt to buy the medications I needed to stay alive,'' he said. ''Open Door has a sliding scale and a government-subsidized way to purchase medication. One of my insulins was costing me $225 per month, and I got it for $50.''
 That may sound like the kind of television advertisement you might see on the network news, but it is testimony to the strain many middle-class people have been under while caught in a conundrum not entirely of their making. They are not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid, which might furnish decent care free, but they do not work for operations that insure their employees and do not earn enough to afford the $12,000 a year or more that private insurance costs for a family of four.
 So they make wrenching choices like Mr. Schwartz did. He could no longer afford both his insulin and his blood-pressure pills. As Dr. Wu put it: ''He had to rationalize: 'Without insulin, I will die, without heart medication, I might die.' '' Mr. Schwartz no longer has to make that choice.
 Joe DiBenedetto, 54, a subcontractor who with his wife makes more than $70,000 a year installing carpets, lost his insurance when the contractor who had employed him went out of business and he latched on to someone who did not pay employee insurance. In recent months he has visited Open Door in Port Chester four times for colon problems and so far has paid just $90. Until he visited the clinic, he had been holding off going to private doctors, who typically charged him $150 for a visit. He and his wife could not afford the $5,000 or more it would have cost them for health insurance. 
 ''I have nothing against people who get on the system,'' he said, using a colloquialism for government assistance like Medicaid, ''but if you pay taxes you can't get the help you need.''
 The four-decade-old Open Door and the other family clinics like ones in Mount Vernon, Greenburgh and Yonkers are subsidized by the federal community health centers program. To qualify for free care, patients can earn no more than 200 percent of the poverty level for a family of four -- or roughly $40,000. For the rest Open Door has a sliding fee scale -- from $25 to $150 for a visit, according to Lindsay Farrell, Open Door's chief executive -- and that has proven an enticement for uninsured, but not quite poor, workers. 
 It is telling that Open Door also draws patients from among those who have had trouble getting appointments with primary-care doctors -- an endangered species. Medical-school graduates, burdened by education loans, for years have been choosing to go into lucrative specialties so they can earn more than $300,000 and spurning primary-care fields like pediatrics and family medicine, which pay half as much. 
 And some people resort to clinics like Open Door because private doctors will not see them without insurance. Bella Bellezzi, 58, of Brewster, said she went to Open Door's clinic in Mount Kisco after a doctor refused to perform a cancer biopsy unless ''he had the money in his hand.'' Dr. Wu steered her toward a doctor at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx who arranged for the biopsy under an emergency provision of Medicaid. The biopsy showed that she did have a rare form of bone cancer in one leg. 
 It was testimony to the kinds of people using clinics that she drove up to Open Door in her locksmith husband's BMW sport-utility vehicle. Indeed, Dr. Wu likes to point out that Open Door built its clinic in Mount Kisco four years ago with just 14 parking spaces, figuring that poor clients would be using public transportation or be dropped off by friends. 
 ''From Day 1 we had a parking crunch -- people were coming in Hondas, Toyotas and a couple of Mercedes,'' he said. ''They were not impoverished. You don't come to this clinic in a Mercedes CLK. That's a self-employed businessman.''
 But many self-employed businessmen have long been struggling to pay for insurance, and when the economy tanks, as it did last year, those businessmen can no longer afford to pay for coverage -- not only for their workers but also for themselves.
 ''Because of the tsunami hitting the economy, Open Door has been thriving,'' Dr. Wu said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEW NEEDS: Dr. Daren Wu examines a patient at a clinic in Mount Kisco.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FAMILY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (69%); DIABETES (66%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (64%); HYPERTENSION (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



367 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: At Least the Agents Are Sold

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
A COUPLE of years ago, when the market for condominiums on the western bank of the Hudson River was smoking hot, some real estate brokers felt as if they were being burned by upstart developers.
 ''They felt like they could get any price they put up, from people just walking in off the street,'' said Teresa Visaggio, an agent at Coldwell Banker in Hudson County, ''so they would ban us: no broker sales.''
 But other developers -- including two of the most prominent on New Jersey's ''Gold Coast,'' Toll Brothers City Living and Metro Homes -- cultivated sales agents, even if they didn't have to then, because they knew it would eventually be to their benefit.
 ''Brokers are the eyes and ears of the market,'' said Benjamin D. Jogodnik, a vice president with Toll City. ''When I want to know what's really going on, I take a broker out to dinner.'' 
 Quite a few brokers, often avid real estate investors themselves, wound up putting their money where their mouths are, at Toll City properties. Some 40 of them have bought $35 million worth of real estate at Toll buildings that have gone up on the Hudson waterfront over the last three years, according to Toll's records. 
 Real estate sales agents have bought condos to live in, or to rent to tenants -- or both -- at four company properties, including 700 Grove in Jersey City, and Harborside Lofts at Hudson Tea, and Maxwell Place on the Hudson in Hoboken, Mr. Jogodnik said. Many of those same people have also brokered sales and are continuing to market condos in buildings where they own property, he added.
 Dean Geibel, the principal of Metro Homes, said he had witnessed the same broker ''hat trick,'' so to speak, at several of the buildings his company has developed in the waterfront district.
 Arlene Wittig, an agent at Re/Max Competitive Edge, signed a contract two years ago for a 600-square-foot studio at Gulls Cove, a Metro Homes complex in Jersey City, intending to ''flip'' the property. (The site -- beside a light rail station and a ferry stop, and four blocks from a PATH train -- seemed ''ideal for turning a profit,'' she said.) Then, last year when the market began sliding in the suburbs of Somerset County, where Ms. Wittig owned a 2,300-square-foot town house, she decided to sell the house and move into her studio instead.
 ''I love it,'' said Ms. Wittig, 53, who now commutes to her office in Somerset County. ''I can walk to fine dining, shopping, take the light rail to Hoboken, or wherever. It's like being in Manhattan, without the added expense.
 ''That's what I tell my customers,'' she said, ''and that's what I believe.'' She said she had sold four other units at Gulls Cove since moving in.
 David Najjar, who owns his own agency, Realty Executives, is another buyer/seller at Gulls Cove, which offers units ranging in price from the low $200,000s to more than $1 million. Mr. Najjar, 31, and his partner live in a two-bedroom corner unit with a view that takes in the Midtown Manhattan skyline as well as the Statue of Liberty.
 ''What I tell people is that there is real value here,'' Mr. Najjar said. ''Because this neighborhood is still developing, and there are still a few empty lots around, and more amenities to come, the prices are great. With mortgage rates low, there is great value in buying right now.''
 By contrast, Kaja Bolton, an agent at Liberty Realty, bought at the top end of the market, in March 2008, becoming the first resident to close at Harborside Lofts, a 116-unit building. In addition to a 1,950-square-foot penthouse with two bedrooms and a den, she and her fiance, Steven Broomhead, paid $200,000 for one of several private rooftop terraces with full-panorama views. 
 ''I would definitely tell people I live here when they came to look at the building,'' which is now 95 percent sold, Ms. Bolton said. ''I've sold four or five condos here now.'' 
 Originally from Norway, Ms. Bolton says she finds Hoboken a sort of European oasis in New Jersey: a small, densely populated and walkable city. She thinks that the opening of the W Hotel this spring will bring more excitement, and that the mile-square city will weather the prevailing economic and real estate troubles quite well.
 ''Things are O.K. now,'' she said last week. ''I have customers coming in on Monday, and out of seven properties I have to show them, in the range up to $700,000, four have offers on them already.''
 Ms. Visaggio, the Coldwell Banker agent, says she has sold units at each of the Toll buildings, as well as several of the Metro Homes buildings.
 She has also bought condos for herself in two different Toll buildings -- first, Maxwell Place in Hoboken, and then 700 Grove in Jersey City. The Maxwell Place purchase, in 2006, was in the complex's first building, which sold out rapidly, said Ms. Visaggio, a 47-year-old Hoboken native. She was able to ''make a lot of money when I sold it, and decided to move to 700 Grove.'' 
 Because this second condo is inland and next to a PATH train stop -- as opposed to right on the riverfront, like Maxwell Place -- ''I got a lot more for the money,'' she said. Ms. Visaggio's two-bedroom two-bath condo has 1,373 square feet. ''Space is important,'' she said, ''because I have two puppies, and I have a large family and like to have them over.''
 She says she owns another Hoboken condo that has lost about $100,000 in value since the recession hit. Rental rates, however, have stayed strong, she said, so the investment is not a losing proposition as of yet.
 David Paris, a Century 21 agent in Hoboken, has just invested in a two-bedroom condo in Jersey City that he plans to rent out. Mr. Paris, 38, recently decamped from Hoboken, moving with his wife and two young children to a single-family house in Morris County.
 As an investment, he bought a 1,200-square-foot apartment at Matzel & Mumford's Crescent Court, a 54-unit midrise building with enclosed parking that is under construction.
 Mr. Paris bought in the mid-$400,000s, with a 5 percent down payment, and estimates that the unit will rent for about $2,500 a month.
 ''I'm hoping the market recovers by September,'' he said, ''but even if it is not back by then, even if I take a small loss each month for a while, I feel this is a really good investment in a well-constructed, midprice-range building.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PANORAMIC VIEWS: Kaja Bolton, an agent at Liberty Realty, was one of the first buyers to close on a condo at Harborside Lofts in Hoboken.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARRENDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SALES FORCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); CITIES (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); SUBURBS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



368 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Megan Hayes, Phillip Emmert

 BODY:
Megan Elizabeth Hayes and Phillip Michael Emmert were married Saturday by the Rev. Sarah Moody at the Church Street United Methodist Church in Knoxville, Tenn. 
 The bride and bridegroom graduated from the University of Tennessee, where they met. 
 Mrs. Emmert, 25, was until recently an event marketing representative in the Knoxville regional fund-raising office of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis. She will soon begin working in the same capacity with the hospital's regional fund-raising office in Nashville. 
 She is a daughter of Linda B. Hayes and H. E. Hayes, of Dayton, Tenn. Her parents retired as the owners of the Courtyard at Deer Ridge, an assisted living community in Dayton. 
 Mr. Emmert, 24, is the director of client services for ActivHealth, a company in Nashville that helps transform research developed by the Duke University Medical Center into health-management software programs. 
 He is the son of Janice K. Emmert and Michael P. Emmert of Hinsdale, Ill. The bridegroom's mother is a member of the world board of governors of the U.S.O., which is based in Arlington, Va., and provides programs and services to American military personnel around the world. His father is a managing director of Navigant Consulting in Chicago, which works with companies on accounting, economic and financial issues. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HOSPITALS (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (71%); EVENT MARKETING (57%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (54%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (54%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (53%); ARMED FORCES (51%)

COMPANY: NAVIGANT CONSULTING INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (84%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: NCI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (90%) TENNESSEE, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



369 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Will Loan Limits Rise?

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
IF you're in the market for a new home, especially in an area where housing prices are typically high, it might make sense to wait a few weeks. Doing so could mean a significant reduction in your monthly mortgage bill -- that is, if the lending industry and Congressional leaders have their way.
 Both groups have been lobbying President-elect Barack Obama to include in an economic stimulus package a provision that would again raise the limits on ''conforming loans,'' which are mortgages eligible to be purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two government-sponsored agencies that resell packages of loans to investors. 
 Last year, the conforming loan limit was temporarily increased from $417,000 to $729,750 in the New York City area, and to $708,750 in Fairfield County, Conn. (Loan limits are based on median home prices; in areas with lower home prices, it was $625,500.) The limit was raised to help to bolster demand for higher-priced houses in a slumping real estate market. 
 The government made a similar attempt to spur sales in late 2007, when it decided to keep the conforming loan limit at $417,000, reversing a longstanding practice of moving the limit in accordance with the housing market. (Because the average home price fell in 2007, the limit should have been reduced.) 
 On Jan. 1, the conforming loan limit was set at $625,500 in all regions, disadvantaging borrowers in areas of higher-cost housing like New York City. 
 Interest rates on nonconforming, or jumbo, mortgages are typically higher than rates on conforming loans because they are considered riskier without a guarantee that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will buy them. The agencies are required by law to buy only conforming loans. 
 Looking to improve real estate sales in higher-cost areas, the provision sought by Congressional leaders would put the conforming loan limit at $729,750.
 Borrowers with 30-year fixed-rate loans of $417,000 to $625,000 -- categorized as agency ''jumbo loans'' -- pay about three-quarters of a percentage point less than those with the conventional jumbo mortgages (though they pay about a quarter of a percentage point more than those with mortgages below $417,000). 
 By changing the ''jumbo conforming'' terms to include a hypothetical $700,000 mortgage, a borrower with good credit would qualify for a 5.25 percent interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, based on current rates, rather than the average 6 percent rate for jumbo mortgages, according to Oded Ben-Ami, a senior loan officer with the Sterling National Mortgage Company in Great Neck, N.Y. 
 Monthly payments on that $700,000 mortgage (excluding property taxes and insurance) would drop to $3,865 from $4,197, Mr. Ben-Ami said. The borrower would also save on fees -- to get the jumbo mortgage, he or she would have had to pay a ''point,'' or an additional $7,000 upfront fee.
 While borrowers who choose to wait for the government to change the conforming loan limit could derive significant savings, Mr. Ben-Ami says they are also ''taking a gamble.''
 Interest rates could increase, he said, and banks could place restrictions on loan amounts or further tighten their lending criteria. (Some in recent months have required borrowers to prove that they have liquid assets equaling 25 percent of the loan amount.) 
 Another element of risk, Mr. Ben-Ami said, is the borrower's own financial situation. 
 ''If you can qualify now while you still have a job,'' he said, ''should you make your move now?'' 
 Other mortgage specialists urged borrowers not to wait. 
 Stephen Habetz, the chief executive of Threshold Mortgage in Westport, Conn., said, ''Homeowners with large loans who are waiting on the sidelines may well find long delays and not the large drop in rates they are anticipating.''
 At the start of January, Mr. Habetz noted, there was already a backlog of mortgage applications ready to be processed. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index. Chart details 30-Year Fixed Rate
15-Year Fixed Rate
1-Year Adjustable
 and 1-Year Treasury security index.(Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); HOME PRICES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); STERLING NATIONAL MORTGAGE CO INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (60%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



370 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; EDUCATION TUCKAHOE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Call to Merge Small Districts Sets Off Officials' Protests

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: TUCKAHOE 

 BODY:
 WHEN Michael V. Yazurlo does the calculus, he figures abolishing his school district in a consolidation is not worth it.
 A state commission recently urged small school districts like Tuckahoe to merge with other small districts or let themselves be swallowed up by larger ones. Why pay for two superintendents when you can have one? the commission suggested. Why two business officers or other duplicate administrators?
 But when Dr. Yazurlo -- who concedes consolidation might cost him his job as Tuckahoe schools superintendent -- does the math, he figures a merger with, say, nearby Eastchester would eliminate at most four positions and save each homeowner in Tuckahoe perhaps $150 a year in property taxes. (The average school portion of the tax bill is $11,800, Tuckahoe school officials say.) There would be no savings in shuttered buildings because the Eastchester and Tuckahoe schools are filled to capacity.
 ''I've done some random numbers, and I don't think it's going to matter,'' Dr. Yazurlo said of the effects of consolidation. ''It's minuscule to the individual household.'' 
 But merging districts could have some real costs, both calculable and intangible, he argued. Consolidation, for example, could end up increasing enrollment in some classes, expanding class size and in some cases requiring the hiring of new teachers, he said.
 ''Now some savings you've realized by cutting administrators comes right back in,'' Dr. Yazurlo said. ''No matter how well you plan it, there are those little demons hiding in the details, and you don't know about it until you get to that point and you say, 'Gee, we never thought about this!' ''
 Most important, he said, Tuckahoe could lose its intimacy and no longer be a place where administrators monitor each child's progress and a parent can complain directly to him.
 The state commission, headed by Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, issued a report Dec. 1 that called for consolidating school districts with fewer than 1,000 students as a remedy for easing what Mr. Suozzi called ''the crushing school property tax burden our state faces.'' 
 Roughly 215 districts in the state are small enough to meet that threshold, including Tuckahoe, Elmsford and Pocantico Hills in Westchester. The commission also called for capping annual growth in property taxes at 4 percent. The commission justified its proposals by noting that New Yorkers spend more per student than any other state -- $18,768 -- and pay the nation's highest local property taxes. 
 In urging consolidations, the commission left ambiguous the question of whether smaller districts should merge with large ones or only other small districts. It said consolidation would permit economies of scale and expand the availability of Advanced Placement and other electives that tiny districts do not have enrollments large enough to offer.
 Educators pointed out that the State Legislature has regularly refused to grapple with consolidation, aware that it was, as one Long Island superintendent put it, ''a political time bomb.''
 ''If they were to approve it, some people's taxes would go up and some would go down, and the legislators will have their ears filled with the cries of people whose taxes went up,'' said Thomas R. Quinn, the superintendent of Springs in the Hamptons on Long Island.
 Mr. Suozzi acknowledged in an interview that there might be isolated instances where demographic, geographic and fiscal factors would require exceptions. But even where superintendents essentially remained as principals, he said, consolidation would allow districts to cut costs of purchasing, payroll, maintenance and other back-office functions. 
 Nevertheless, Diane Ravitch, a historian of education in New York City, said that ''back-office operations could be consolidated without necessarily consolidating the district.'' 
 Westchester has had no consolidation in at least two decades. 
 Educators in two of the three Westchester districts with fewer than 1,000 students said Mr. Suozzi and his staff did not visit them. If they had, the educators said, the commission would have become aware of factors that make consolidation more complicated than it appears in the abstract. 
 Some educators expressed surprise that such a proposal was being put forward in an era when schools try to limit class sizes and superintendents break up large high schools into more manageable theme schools.
 ''The irony of this is that what's working best is what they're trying to disband,'' said Bart Linehan, the principal of the 270-student Tuckahoe High School. 
 If Tuckahoe, an independent district since the late 19th century, is pressed to merge, it will not find a willing partner in neighboring Eastchester, which at 3,087 students is three times Tuckahoe's size. Mary Ellen Meehan Byrne, a spokeswoman for Eastchester, underscored Eastchester's overcrowding but also argued for something more amorphous -- the benefits of loyalty to a hometown school.
 ''I don't know anyone who would like the idea of losing that relationship with their neighborhood school,'' she said.
 There are already examples of cooperation between the districts, Dr. Yazurlo said. In the past, Tuckahoe has sent high school students to Eastchester to take courses it does not offer. And the two districts have made consolidations on bus transportation and summer school. 
 One Tuckahoe official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the topic's sensitivity, predicted that any effort to merge would spark a strong outcry in Eastchester because Tuckahoe's schools have a more diverse population -- roughly a quarter of the students are African-American or Hispanic -- while Eastchester is overwhelmingly white. In the 2006-7 school year, 5 percent of the students at Eastchester Senior High School were African-American or Hispanic, according to state data.
 Barbara Peters, superintendent of Elmsford, which has roughly 1,000 students, wondered if consolidation might produce some paradoxical consequences -- like increasing pay for Elmsford teachers because of a merger with a district with higher salaries. 
 Dr. Peters recalled that in her previous assignment, running the West Seneca schools near Buffalo, the familiarity bred in a more intimate setting proved essential in raising achievement markedly at one of the low-performing schools. The atmosphere helped unite teachers, parents and students in the effort, she said. 
 ''When you have that sense of family and tight-knit community, that sometimes has significant benefits that you lose when you move to a larger setting,'' she said. ''There's the possibility of a loss of ownership, a loss of identity, and a larger school could potentially lower staff motivations and productivity, parent involvement and student motivation.''
 At Tuckahoe High School, Dr. Linehan suggested, some of the savings proposed through consolidation might be illusory. His school does not have an assistant principal, department head or curriculum coordinator, he said. Under a merger, he might need to remain as either a principal or assistant principal to supervise the Tuckahoe building, eliminating that savings. ''I do cafeteria and hall duty, I greet the kids,'' he said.
 He conceded that because his district is small, it lacks enough students to offer an array of A.P. classes. It offers 8, while bigger schools offer 12 or more. But Tuckahoe keeps its average class size at 20. Teachers help do work like curriculum design and testing in ways they may shrug off in a larger school, he said. The chemistry teacher teaches a forensics elective, the physics teacher A.P. environmental science.
 With only 60 or so graduates a year, Dr. Linehan said, Tuckahoe High can track each senior and determine how to assist students in danger of not graduating. Only one student did not graduate last year, a year when the valedictorian went to Harvard. Consolidation, he said, might make sense with factories, ''but when dealing with kids, it's much more involved and intricate.'' 
 Students seem to like Tuckahoe's independent small size. ''You know everyone and everyone's really close,'' said Denise, 14, a ninth grader. ''You get more comfortable because everybody's friendly with each other.'' The school allowed students to identify themselves only by first name to protect their privacy.
 Dr. Yazurlo expressed anger that schools were being asked to make such sacrifices at a time when millions of public dollars are being spent on things like sports stadiums and racetracks.
 ''Maybe if they looked at those things a little closer, they wouldn't have to look at a questionable thing like a merger of schools, which has dubious savings,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO SAVINGS: Michael V. Yazurlo, Tuckahoe schools superintendent, calls potential savings ''minuscule to the individual household.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 POSITIVES: Mark Dineen teaches an earth science class at Tuckahoe Middle School. Tuckahoe's average class size is 20.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CALCULUS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); COUNTIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



371 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: The Bears Disagree, Too, About the Market's Future

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
PROFESSIONAL investors are having trouble reading the tea leaves. Further proof of this -- as if any were needed -- can be found in the opposite views held by the two most prominent bear-fund advisers.
 Steven C. Leuthold, the chairman of the Leuthold Group, based in Minneapolis, says he thinks stocks hit bottom in late November and that the markets could rally this year. So he is not currently recommending his own bear fund, Grizzly Short, which bets against stocks. ''Personally, I wouldn't buy it at this point,'' he said.
 David W. Tice, on the other hand, predicts that the United States could be in for a long and painful recession. Mr. Tice, who created the Prudent Bear fund, predicted that broad market indexes could fall an additional 30 percent to 40 percent. ''Stocks have sold off a lot,'' he said. ''But there is still a lot more pain to come.'' 
 To be sure, these two money managers arrived at bear market funds from different directions. Mr. Leuthold focuses on asset allocation, and most of the money that his firm manages is not invested in short-selling strategies, whereas Mr. Tice has long been known for his gloomy prognostications. Both men have stepped back from the day-to-day management of their bear funds and now serve as investment strategists.
 Bear funds were among very few Morningstar fund categories to end the fourth quarter of 2008 in positive territory. The category rose nearly 12 percent in the quarter and soared more than 37 percent for the year, according to Morningstar.
 But the category was bolstered by a handful of funds that use leverage, or debt, with the goal of returning twice the opposite of an index. For example, the ProFunds UltraBear fund returned almost 19 percent in the fourth quarter, a period when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell by half that much.
 Grizzly Short and Prudent Bear never use leverage to magnify their returns. The Grizzly Short fund returned 23 percent in the quarter, while Prudent Bear returned 17 percent, according to Morningstar. 
 These funds also operate differently from the rest of the pack, which is dominated by inverse index funds. The managers of both Grizzly Short and Prudent Bear will hand-pick stocks to short, which involves selling borrowed shares that they hope to buy back later at a lower price. That means the funds should do well in bear markets, but they have been known to make money -- or at least break even -- in bull markets.
 Mr. Tice recently sold the Prudent Bear fund to Federated Investors, an asset manager based in Pittsburgh, where he is now the chief market strategist for bear markets.
 Mr. Tice has long been of the opinion that the United States is mired in debt. He blames the low-interest-rate environment during much of the last 20 years for feeding a huge credit bubble. ''Every time we had a recession, the economy was given a huge shot of tequila'' in the form of rate cuts, he said.
 Although Mr. Tice does not have a rosy outlook for stocks in general, he does think that a handful of shares were beaten up too much in the fall. He pointed to nondiscretionary stocks, which include food and drug manufacturers. On the other hand, he said technology stocks were too expensive compared with some other sectors, like financial stocks.
 Prudent Bear returned 27 percent for all of 2008. It has had average annual returns of about 6.5 percent over the last five years and has an expense ratio of 1.68 percent, according to Morningstar.
 MR. LEUTHOLD recently stopped recommending any short-selling. Since mid-July, he has raised his model portfolio's stock allocation to 66 percent from 30 percent. He recommends holding 24 percent of a portfolio in bonds and 10 percent in cash. 
 ''We've just been through one of the worst 10-year periods in stock market history,'' Mr. Leuthold said. ''Now equities are the best bargain there is.'' 
 He added that the Grizzly Short fund was still a fine option for investors whose outlook for the stock market this year was considerably more negative than his own.
 Matt Paschke, a co-manager of Grizzly Short, said it was overweighting consumer discretionary stocks -- a category that includes travel and leisure companies -- which are highly sensitive to recessions. He said financial stocks were being held at roughly market weight.
 ''We still think the financial sector will be weak,'' Mr. Paschke said. ''But there's so much government involvement now. Who knows who they're going to bail out next?''
 Grizzly Short returned 74 percent last year and had average annual returns of 6 percent over the last five years, according to Morningstar. It has an expense ratio of 1.5 percent.
 David Kathman, a fund analyst at Morningstar, says investors who are spooked by the recent market gyrations could put 5 percent to 10 percent of their portfolios into one of these funds as a hedge. ''It will give you a cushion'' against further investment losses, he said. ''But if the market does bounce back, it will temper your gains.''
 Mr. Kathman does not recommend this strategy, though, saying that nervous investors might be better served by parking more of their portfolios in cash. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steven C. Leuthold, above, says he thinks the markets could rally this year, while David W. Tice, right, says the United States could be in for a long and painful recession. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALLEN BRISSON-SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARK GRAHAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INDEX FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); SALES PLAN (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (50%)

TICKER: FII (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



372 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Crisis, Strain and Hope: A Family's Balancing Act

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
Soilange Villagran, 49, tapped on a computer keyboard at the Grace Institute on the Upper East Side. She looked well put together and cheerful, showing little sign of the strain she has been through in recent years. 
 ''I have a concept of presence -- it is very important,'' said Ms. Villagran, a mother of three, during a break from her computer class. But her body aches. She has lupus, a chronic autoimmune disease that attacks normal tissue. 
 Since her diagnosis in 2000, she has tried to manage her illness while confronting one family crisis after another. 
 In 2002, her youngest child, Diana Guijarro, now 11, struck her head on the concrete during school recess, causing brain damage. The accident changed her daughter from an outgoing child to one who tires easily and needs regular stimulation and therapy to improve her cognitive skills.
 The same year, her husband's sister died of cancer. Anguish struck again in 2003: her oldest children, Marcy Palacios, now 22, and Christian Palacios, now 23, were critically injured in a car accident. Their recovery was sure but slow. Both are now in college.
 More recently her husband, George Guijarro, 47, suffered a severe heart attack. No longer able to carry heavy equipment, in 2007 he lost his job as a contractor. ''I feel that we are fighting -- swimming against the waves,'' she said, then adding more hopefully, ''but then something comes.''
 Being accepted to the Grace Institute, she said, is affirmation that good things can happen. The institute is a beneficiary of Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 She found out about the agency last fall. Her husband persuaded her to accompany him to a job fair. While he was inquiring about a new career with the United Parcel Service, a job counselor gave her a number for the Grace Institute, which offers office training and administrative placement for women. The next day she went to their offices, where she took a typing test and was interviewed. She qualified for a scholarship. ''I felt like I won the lottery,'' she said.
 While she studied, her husband continued his efforts to find work. They used his $400 in weekly unemployment benefits to pay the $750 rent on their one-bedroom apartment -- a reconfigured storage room in Queens where they live with their youngest child -- and utilities. But there is little left for groceries: $80 every two weeks to buy lentils, beans, sardines, bread and, her biggest extravagance, milk.
 In October, Ms. Villagran could see that the financial strain was affecting Diana, who was becoming more despondent. 
 At the Grace Institute, a social worker offered help. ''She really needed a coat and something educational,'' said Ms. Villagran. They were items the family once could afford, but their money now goes exclusively to necessities, like putting food on the table. 
 Through Catholic Charities, Grace Institute was able to secure $250 from the Neediest Cases Fund for a new coat, some other clothes and music therapy -- in the form of seven piano lessons -- for Diana. ''It made a difference immediately,'' Ms. Villagran said. ''The piano wakes her senses and helps on her self-esteem.''
 Then, in the second week of December, Mr. Guijarro's unemployment benefits ended. 
 For the first time, Ms. Villagran lined up at a church food pantry, and she applied for emergency food stamps. 
 But just when things looked bleak, they got better. On Dec. 24, she learned that the Grace Institute had collected $160 for her. With that money she was able to pay a few bills and buy a $20 drugstore Christmas tree and a small bounty for a Christmas dinner. 
 Shortly after, an extension to her husband's unemployment benefits was approved. And she learned that the Neediest Cases Fund would cover the fee for her husband's commercial driver's license exam. 
 Their future looks brighter now, Ms. Villagran said. She will graduate on Feb. 2. With her certificate from the institute, and her husband's opportunity to get a new license, she is optimistic that they will find jobs. 
 ''I would like work in a hospital or a nonprofit,'' she said. ''I know I can be helpful to people who have been in pain. I understand what they have been through.''
 How to Help
 Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to:
 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. 
 All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. Checks intended for a particular Neediest agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest gift.
 BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, NY 11217 (718) 310-5600
 THE CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, NY 10022 (212) 371-1000
 CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, NY 11201 (718) 722-6000
 THE CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 949-4800
 THE COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 254-8900
 THE FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES, INC 281 Park Avenue South New York, NY 10010 (212) 777-4800
 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, NY 10261-4100 (212) 980-1000 
 For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 730- 0927. 
 No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. 
 Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. 
 To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A small gift on Dec. 24 allowed Soilange Villagran and her husband, George Guijarro, to buy a $20 drugstore Christmas tree.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); CANCER (76%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); LUPUS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); CHILDREN (75%); HEAD INJURIES (74%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); RELIGION (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); HEART DISEASE (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); DISMISSALS (69%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (69%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); CHARITIES (64%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (62%); LOTTERIES (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (53%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (53%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



373 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: A Crossroad For Russia And America

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
-- In August of last year, a new Russia presented itself to the world. From the battlefield of Georgia, the message said: We are no longer seeking the good opinion of the West. The new taste for confrontation was seen by many as a byproduct of oil and gas wealth, which had given Russia's leaders the confidence to risk international isolation. In the title of a book he published in April, the scholar Marshall Goldman offered a one-word explanation: ''Petrostate.''
 That thesis may have a short shelf life. Russian leaders, no longer hoping to make the ruble an international reserve currency, now face a confluence of disasters: The price of a barrel of oil has slid below $40, shares of Gazprom fell 76 percent in a year and more than a quarter of Russia's cash reserves have been spent shoring up the ruble.
 But does that mean we can expect a thaw between Russia and America? 
 The question arises at a moment of high tension. The deadlock between Russia and Ukraine on gas prices has drawn in all of Europe; violence in Georgia could flare up again. Barack Obama's Russia policymakers are taking office under the pressure of unfolding events.
 Henry Kissinger, who was in Moscow last month, is offering the hopeful view that the global financial crash could lead to ''an age of compatible interests.'' But others see the crisis pushing Russia in the opposite direction. So there are two paths: 
 SCENARIO 1: COOPERATION In the global financial collapse, as Alexander Rahr of Germany's Council on Foreign Relations put it: ''We have all become weaker. We have all become poorer.'' So, pressed by domestic concerns, both sides pare back their foreign ambitions. Washington slows its timetable on NATO expansion and missile defense; Russia defers the dream of recapturing the Soviet ''privileged sphere of influence.'' Leaders in Moscow present this to the public as a victory. 
 The logic here is straightforward: A cash-strapped Russia would need Western money and technology to develop its energy fields. State monopolies would seek foreign partners, and bare-knuckled power grabs like Russia's past moves against BP and Shell Oil would look counterproductive. The ''battle of ideas'' within the Kremlin, as Igor Y. Yurgens, an adviser to President Dmitri A. Medvedev, describes it, would turn away from ''isolation, seclusion, imperial instincts'' and toward long-term partnership with the West. 
 ''If we take care of the crisis by isolating ourselves, if we don't learn the lessons from what is already being done, then the fate of Russia can be the repetition of the fate of the U.S.S.R.,'' Mr. Yurgens said. ''I don't think we are stupid enough.'' 
 SCENARIO 2: RETRENCHMENT AND NATIONALISM ''Less resources means more selfish behavior,'' as Sergei A. Markov, director of the Institute of Political Studies in Moscow, has said. In this case, Russia finds itself facing internal dissent and the threat of regional separatism, and lacking large piles of oil money to disburse in hopes of keeping control. Forced to fight for their own survival, political leaders tailor their policies to domestic public opinion. They focus on an external enemy -- the United States, which leaders have already blamed for Russia's financial crisis, and with whom Russia is already deeply irritated over the prospect of American military influence reaching Ukraine. 
 By this logic, it would be absurd to cede ground to the West now, after the long-awaited taste of satisfaction that Russians got in Georgia. Many Russians see the August war as a restoration of Russia's rightful place in world events -- a product not of oil wealth, but of the Russian society's recovery from the Soviet collapse.
 ''Russia has returned, period,'' said Vyacheslav A. Nikonov, president of the Kremlin-aligned Polity Foundation. ''That will not change. It will not get back under the table.''
 WHICH scenario is more likely? To begin, it is clear that Russian authorities are preparing to defend their political power. After presenting himself to the world as a liberal modernizer, President Medvedev has prioritized one major reform -- lengthening the presidential term to six years. Last week, he signed a law eliminating jury trials for ''crimes against the state,'' and pending legislation would expand the definition of treason.
 The authorities are nervous, it seems. Mr. Medvedev, in his State of the Nation speech, sent a barbed warning to ''those who seek to provoke tension in the political situation.'' And last month, riot police were sent 6,000 miles from Moscow to Vladivostok, where hundreds of people were protesting automobile tariffs, The Associated Press reported. ''I just think they don't trust what they can't control,'' said Clifford Kupchan of the Eurasia Group, a global risk-consulting firm based in New York. ''Their instinctive reflex is to clamp when faced with uncertainty.'' 
 The first scenario, in which economic considerations dictate a more subdued foreign policy, requires conditions that may not exist. In the government, economic liberals might challenge hardliners. The constituencies who might back them up are ones that fell silent during the boom. 
 ''People in epaulets who feel they are middle class, people in bureaucracy who feel they are middle class, they could be part of this coalition,'' Mr. Yurgens said. ''Whether this coalition will be strong enough, I have no way of knowing.'' 
 These days, Stephen Sestanovich, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, sees signs of ''policy confusion'' as Moscow's leaders adjust to Russia's sudden economic slide. Moscow has allowed the Georgia crisis to subside, but has escalated tensions over gas with Ukraine. 
 The choice the elites face, Mr. Sestanovich said, is whether to keep talking in ways that make them look like ''angry risk-takers and disturbers.'' 
 ''Is that still their real view of themselves, and of the appropriate policy in a time of crisis?'' he said. ''It may be. But I'm not sure, and I don't think they are.'' 
 The United States has real interests in a cooperative Russia; it wants help in curbing Iran's nuclear ambitions, and NATO needs more supply routes into Afghanistan. And with Mr. Obama's arrival in the White House, there seems room for compromise on two big Russian concerns: possible NATO expansion to Ukraine and Georgia, and the plan to station missile-defense facilities in Poland and the Czech Republic. 
 But in the deep freeze of a Moscow January, the gains of August are still thrilling. When Mr. Putin went on television last week to cut gas shipments to Ukraine -- retaliation, he said, for thefts from Russia's pipeline -- who could miss the glint of satisfaction at another tough-guy stance? Foreign policy emits an energy that goes far beyond mere economics, and the new year will call for all the resources Moscow can muster. To a Russia intent on reclaiming great-power status, there may be something elemental about resisting America.
 ''It's just the way things are,'' said Mr. Nikonov, whose grandfather, Vyacheslav Molotov, was Stalin's foreign minister. Searching his memory for periods of warmth between the two countries, Mr. Nikonov came up with two: March and April of 1917, and August through December of 1991. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POWER COAT: Vladimir Putin has presided over Russia's resurgence
the slump threatens it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK1)
 IN GEORGIA: Russians outside Tbilisi last fall.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MDZINARISHVILI/REUTERS) (WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (69%); SHELL OIL CO (51%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (69%); GAZP (RTS) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (75%); UKRAINE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



374 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: 'Eternal' Flame Is Lighted Again Despite High Cost

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BULLHEAD CITY, Ariz. 

 BODY:
An ''eternal'' flame at Bullhead City's new veterans memorial park that lasted only until city officials received a $961 gas bill has been relighted after complaints by veterans groups. 
 The Medal of Honor Memorial at the Arizona Veterans Memorial Park alongside the Colorado River was lighted on Veterans Day in November. When the bill arrived in late December, city officials were stunned.
 ''It caught us by surprise,'' said the city manager, Tim Ernster, on Thursday, who added that what they had decided to do for the time being was to turn the flame on ''for special events, for Veterans Day, Fourth of July, Memorial Day -- those types of activities.''
 The flame was extinguished on Monday. The Mohave Valley Daily News published a story Friday quoting city officials and disgruntled veterans who had worked to pay for and build the memorial before turning it over to the city.
 The flame was back on by midmorning Friday after city officials met. ''What happened was really a miscommunication,'' a city spokesman, Steve Johnson, said. ''The issue came up one day, and it was never intended to be shut off.''
 Mr. Johnson said that the flame was impressive, but that city parks officials were looking at ways to put a smaller burner in place and use the larger one at special events.
 ''We're looking at alternatives, because $1,000 a month in these economic times is certainly a consideration,'' Mr. Johnson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (92%); VETERANS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



375 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HUBER, MICHAEL WRIGHT

 BODY:
HUBER--Michael Wright. December 29, 1927-January 5, 2009. Michael W. Huber of Locust, NJ, died at home, surrounded by his family, early in the morning on January 5, 2009. Mike graduated in 1949 from Princeton University with a degree in Mechanical Engineering. He married Caroline Parker on July 28th, 1951 on Mishaum Point in Massachusetts. 
After college, Mike went to work in the family business, the J.M. Huber Corporation. He worked at Huber for more than 45 years, with an interruption only for service in the Air Force during the Korean War. Mike held the positions of Chairman, CEO, and Director guiding the company's growth into diverse, international businesses including engineered wood, mineral products, and energy. A lifelong resident of Monmouth County, NJ, Mike and Caroline spent summers sailing the coast of Maine from their homeport in Sorrento. Mike's travels took him from Antarctica to the Arctic Circle and to every continent in search of birds. He could identify hundreds of species of flora and fauna by sight, sound, and sign, and he worked tirelessly in support of many organizations devoted to the protection and preservation of wild spaces and natural diversity. Among New Jersey's environmental groups, he served on the boards of the Monmouth Conservation Foundation, the New Jersey Conservation Foundation, The Nature Conservancy, the American Littoral Society, and the Pinelands Preservation Alliance. He was also an active supporter of a wide range of organizations promoting civil rights, social and economic justice, education, family planning, political reform, and the performing arts. He will be remembered as a generous and thoughtful advocate of a more livable and sustainable world. Mike is survived by Caroline and their children and grandchildren: Eleanor Huber, husband David Lovins, and their children, Katie and Josh Lovins; Hans Huber and his children, Max and Lucy; Michael Huber, wife Martha Cody Huber, and their children, Jacob and Isabella; Sepp Huber and his children, Ben, Jay, and Woody; and Sam Huber, his wife Catherine Weiss, and their children, Alexandra, Eliza, and Zoe Huber-Weiss. Mike is also survived by his sister Cat Anderson and his brother Toni Huber. A memorial service will be held on February 8th at 12 Noon at the Fort at Sandy Hook Theater. Posten's Funeral Home in Atlantic Highlands, NJ is in charge of services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ENGINEERING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); KOREAN WAR (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%); AIR FORCES (70%); ANIMALS (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: J M HUBER CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (54%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212322 INDUSTRIAL SAND MINING (72%); SIC1446 INDUSTRIAL SAND (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MAINE, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); ANTARCTICA (79%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



376 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; DETROIT AUTO SHOW; Pg. 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: G.M. to Make Batteries for Volt in Michigan

BYLINE: By LINDSAY BROOKE

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
GENERAL MOTORS will announce Monday that it will make lithium-ion battery packs to power the 2011 Chevrolet Volt and other extended-range electric vehicles at a new facility in Michigan. With the announcement, to be made during press preview days for the North American International Auto Show by Rick Wagoner, the company's chairman and chief executive, G.M. becomes the first major automaker with a commitment to producing the advanced battery packs in the United States.
G.M. is also is expected to announce the opening of a new advanced-battery test facility at its global electric-vehicle engineering center in Warren, Mich. 
 Lithium-battery technology, already common in consumer devices like cellphones and laptop computers, is still being developed for the more demanding operating conditions of automobiles. Numerous types of battery chemistries are under consideration, but lithium ion is widely considered the leading candidate to meet the range and performance requirements of the next generation of electric and hybrid vehicles, including many of the future concept and production cars on display here in Detroit. 
 G.M.'s decision to build the battery-pack plant is part of the automaker's revitalization plan, shifting the company's focus to higher-efficiency cars and trucks. The Volt, which G.M. says will be capable of driving up to 40 miles on battery power alone, uses an onboard generator driven by a 1.4-liter gasoline engine to extend its range when the battery pack's charge has been depleted. 
 With the combined mileage of battery-only operation, which uses no gas, and the miles covered with the car powered by its generator, the four-seat Volt sedan is expected to earn a fuel economy rating of more than 100 miles a gallon from the Environmental Protection Agency.
 Full details, including the battery-pack plant's specific location, are not expected to be released in the Monday news conference. G.M.'s announcement comes three weeks after Michigan's legislature approved tax incentives worth up to $335 million aimed at attracting advanced-battery manufacturers to the state. The credits will be apportioned depending on production volume and other factors. Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm is expected to sign the legislation. 
 ''This is very important, and it's beyond symbolic,'' said Brett Smith, speaking of the plant's significance. Mr. Smith, assistant director for manufacturing, engineering and technology at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich., explained that it is critical for the Detroit Three automakers to create an infrastructure in the United States for volume production of batteries for electric, plug-in electric and hybrid vehicles. 
 He noted that while this country lacks a cohesive battery-development policy, Asian battery companies, supported by their national governments, dominate global production driven by demand from the consumer-electronics industry.
 Makers like Panasonic of Japan, LG Chem of South Korea and BYD of China, with years of experience in this sector, have a significant lead in battery development and production. (Panasonic, whose hybrid-battery joint venture is owned primarily by Toyota, recently purchased Sanyo, a former rival.) 
 Critics charge that American automakers and defense contractors are effectively trading dependence on imported oil for dependence on imported batteries.
 While numerous start-up companies have emerged to develop advanced auto batteries in the United States in recent years, few are engaged in actual production for the automotive market. Wisconsin-based Johnson Controls has a joint venture with Saft, a French battery specialist, but lithium-battery production -- for Mercedes-Benz and BMW hybrids -- currently is in France.
 Last month several United States battery and advanced materials companies, with support from the Energy Department's Argonne National Laboratory, formed the National Alliance for Advanced Transportation Battery Cell Manufacture. The organization aims to make lithium-based cells for transportation applications in the United States.
 Argonne actively encouraged the alliance and will serve in an advisory role.
 Creating viable base for lithium automotive battery production in the United States has been a chicken-and-egg situation, Mr. Smith of the auto research center said.
 ''Automakers cannot afford the batteries until they can be produced in a certain volume,'' he said. ''But they can't be produced in volume until the companies make a big manufacturing investment. The timing of that investment becomes critical -- if you jump in too early you could end up on the bleeding edge rather than the leading edge.''
 The battery packs that G.M. will assemble in its new facility are complex electronic systems. They consist of 220 individual lithium ''cells,'' each rated at two to three volts and interconnected in groups called modules. A complete T-shaped pack is approximately 64 inches long and weighs nearly 400 pounds.
 The packs feature their own computer controls to manage electric-power flow, and their own heating and cooling equipment. And because the packs are positioned within the Volt's underbody structure, they are housed in extremely durable cases.
 Assembling the Volt packs could be a stepping stone toward G.M.'s production of lithium battery cells in the United States, a move that would have even greater strategic impact for the domestic auto industry's future, Mr. Smith said. G.M. now has two companies under contract to develop and test prototype lithium cells for the Volt: Massachusetts-based A123 Systems, which manufactures its cells in China, and Compact Power, Inc., which is owned by LG Chem. 
 ''With pack assembly in Michigan as the first step for G.M., hopefully we'll start to see a lot more activity on the cell manufacturing side as well,'' Mr. Smith said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); BATTERY MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (88%); SEDANS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CONCEPT CARS (77%); ELECTRONICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (62%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (54%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (59%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009



377 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; PLAY NICE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Play Nice

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
-- In all likelihood, Barack Obama's inaugural speech next week will include some version of the ''let's be nice and all work together'' riff. Presidents typically kick off their terms with calls for greater civility and cooperation -- and a parallel acknowledgment that (sigh) Washington has failed miserably in this regard in the past and must do better.
 George W. Bush began his administration with a promise to ''change the tone'' in Washington only to end it with a lament over his inability to do so (unless, some argue, he made it worse). Bill Clinton began his second term by calling a halt to ''acrimony and division'' and then generated buckets of the stuff over the next four years (low-lighted by his own impeachment). George H. W. Bush declared in 1989 that his presidency would mark ''the age of the offered hand,'' only to be showing his opponents the back of his by 1992 (calling the Democratic-controlled Congress an institution of ''PACs, perks, privilege, partisanship and paralysis''). 
 In other words, the whole ''let's be nice'' idea has been floated before. And it forms a dubious backdrop against which Mr. Obama -- who wallpapered his campaign with calls for a ''new politics'' -- will deliver his own call for comity, cooperation and ''coming together'' next week. 
 Less certain is whether this sentiment is a realistic goal or just a temporary feel-good tradition (like an inaugural ball, and about as short-lived). Is it even possible to ''change the tone'' in Washington given all the resentment that has accumulated over the years? 
 For what it's worth, a big majority of Americans think so: 64 percent of respondents to a CBS poll last month said they believed that Mr. Obama could bring about real change in Washington (compared with 27 percent who did not). Conciliatory gestures and speechmaking have abounded from both sides in recent weeks. The incoming administration has been strenuous in reaching out to Republican leaders in Congress -- directly or through emissaries -- while many prominent Republicans have been generous in kind, beginning with President Bush (who won grace points last week for again welcoming Mr. Obama to the White House, this time hosting a lunch with the three living ex-presidents).
 Regardless, veterans of both sides agree that the bitterness of recent decades goes deeper than just ''tone.'' Ed Kutler, a Republican lobbyist who was a top aide to the former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, prefers ''reflex.'' As in, politics today breeds a ''partisan reflex'' in its practitioners, which in turn pollutes the tone. 
 ''Most politicians' first reflex is to look to the next press release and the next 10 seconds on TV,'' Mr. Kutler said. Sure enough, after Mr. Obama made his initial appointments -- Rahm Emanuel as chief of staff, David Axelrod as senior adviser, for instance -- the Republican National Committee immediately issued statements criticizing them (''partisan bomb-throwers,'' said a committee spokesman, Alex Conant). Former Senator Tom Daschle, Mr. Obama's nominee to be secretary of health and human services, was panned likewise (''another disappointment'').
 But Republican senators seemed not to get the R.N.C. talking points in time for Mr. Daschle's confirmation hearings on Thursday -- a proceeding criticized for being too tame (''cuddly,'' ''a love-fest,'' said The New York Times in an editorial). 
 ''I had a really warm reception,'' Mr. Daschle said Friday in an interview, and he said it portended well for the future tone. But he adds an obvious caveat. ''To a certain extent there's always a degree of comity,'' he said. ''At the beginning.'' And then, if precedent holds, politics will fall back -- reflexively -- to its familiar patterns. 
 Even so, there does appear to be bipartisan hope that Mr. Obama might be an unusual figure, whose skill at bringing parties together really can create a sustained harmony. ''I think Barack is going to be terrific on it,'' said Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, ''it'' referring to the challenge of fostering cooperation between the parties. ''I have been very impressed.'' 
 But Mr. Coburn was less impressed with Senate Democrats that morning when his office issued a statement chiding them for what he called ''an earmark-laden omnibus lands bill'' that ''makes a mockery of voters' hopes for change.''
 ''Dr. Coburn wants to run the Senate,'' the Senate's Democratic leader, Harry Reid, said dismissively in an interview with The Hill. ''He does not run the Senate.''
 There were times last week when Mr. Reid probably wished someone other than himself did. Internecine fighting -- particularly in the Senate -- has made up much of the early discord in the new year. Mr. Reid faced pressure from members of his caucus after his refusal to allow a would-be senator, Roland Burris -- appointed by the now-impeached Illinois governor, Rod Blagojevich -- to join them (Mr. Reid relented); Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California and chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, complained that the administration did not consult her before nominating Leon Panetta to head the Central Intelligence Agency; and Senate Democrats questioned parts of Mr. Obama's stimulus plan (particularly related to tax cuts). ''I don't work for Obama,'' Mr. Reid was compelled to say at one point.
 While family squabbles can be fun to watch -- especially by the opposition family -- they are just one contributing element to tone. The broader notion of tone in Washington usually refers to the dynamics between the two parties, which -- despite the bipartisan vibe of late -- has been poisonous for decades. Generations of Americans have no recollection of a Washington other than one marked by great partisan division and rancor, if there ever was any such time. It's worth noting that nearly every Inaugural Address ever delivered includes some variation on the ''change the tone'' theme: Zachary Taylor in 1849 praised efforts to ''assuage the bitterness''; Benjamin Harrison in 1889 said ''we should hold our differing opinions in mutual respect''; Calvin Coolidge in 1925 insisted ''there is no salvation in a narrow and bigoted partisanship.''
 The question of who is to blame for the recent partisan division and rancor is itself a source of partisan division and rancor. Democrats love to blame Karl Rove, the former White House political chief, particularly his stewardship of the midterm elections of 2002, which shattered any sense of unity that existed between the parties after Sept. 11, 2001. Republicans often speak generically of ''the Clinton years,'' while Democrats note that Mr. Gingrich's reign as speaker and the initiation of impeachment proceedings against the president engendered much of the nastiness during the 1990s.
 Veteran Washington figures speak nostalgically of the 1980s, romanticizing the affection between Ronald Reagan and House Speaker Tip O'Neill, who are said to have enjoyed swapping jokes and stories after hours. While their bond seemed genuine, it was also overstated and, either way, not terribly evident in their public dealings. Mr. Reagan's successor, Mr. Bush (41), asserted in his inaugural speech that ''a new wind is blowing,'' which did not speak well of the old wind. And Republicans are just as quick to decry the ham-handed tactics of the Democratic Congresses that preceded the leadership of Mr. Gingrich and Dennis Hastert.
 Members of both parties agree that the gravity of the economic crisis will do more to promote a spirit of civility and cooperation than any one person or entity. ''We have one thing going for us that we haven't had in a while, and that's fear,'' said former Senator Warren Rudman, Republican of New Hampshire. ''You have to be scared these days,'' he added, ''unless you're a total lunatic.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDRIO ABERO (33RPM)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LOBBYING (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



378 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cuts For Teachers

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Over the next couple of years, two very big countries, America and China, will give birth to something very important. They're each going to give birth to close to $1 trillion worth of economic stimulus -- in the form of tax cuts, infrastructure, highways, mass transit and new energy systems. But a lot is riding on these two babies. If China and America each give birth to a pig -- a big, energy-devouring, climate-spoiling stimulus hog -- our kids are done for. It will be the burden of their lifetimes. If they each give birth to a gazelle -- a lean, energy-efficient and innovation-friendly stimulus -- it will be the opportunity of their lifetimes.
 So here's hoping that our new administration and Congress will be guided in shaping the stimulus by reading John Maynard Keynes in one hand -- to get as much money injected as quickly as possible -- and by reading ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future'' with the other. 
 ''Gathering Storm'' was the outstanding 2005 report produced by our National Academies on how to keep America competitive by vastly improving math and science education, investing in long-term research, recruiting top students from abroad and making U.S. laws the most conducive in the world for innovation. 
 You see, even before the current financial crisis, we were already in a deep competitive hole -- a long period in which too many people were making money from money, or money from flipping houses or hamburgers, and too few people were making money by making new stuff, with hard-earned science, math, biology and engineering skills.
 The financial crisis just made the hole deeper, which is why our stimulus needs to be both big and smart, both financially and educationally stimulating. It needs to be able to produce not only more shovel-ready jobs and shovel-ready workers, but more Google-ready jobs and Windows-ready and knowledge-ready workers.
 If we spend $1 trillion on a stimulus and just get better highways and bridges -- and not a new Google, Apple, Intel or Microsoft -- your kids will thank you for making it so much easier for them to commute to the unemployment office or mediocre jobs.
 Barack Obama gets it, but I'm not sure Congress does. ''Yes,'' Mr. Obama said on Thursday, ''we'll put people to work repairing crumbling roads, bridges and schools by eliminating the backlog of well-planned, worthy and needed infrastructure projects. But we'll also do more to retrofit America for a global economy.'' Sure that means more smart grids and broadband highways, he added, but it also ''means investing in the science, research and technology that will lead to new medical breakthroughs, new discoveries and entire new industries.''
 But clean-tech projects like intelligent grids and broadband take a long time to implement. Can we stimulate both our economy and our people in time? Maybe rather than just giving everyone a quick $1,500 to hit the mall to buy flat-screen TVs imported from China, or creating those all-important green-collar jobs for low-skilled workers -- to put people to work installing solar panels and insulating homes -- we should also give everyone who is academically eligible and willing a quick $5,000 to go back to school. Universities today are the biggest employers in many Congressional districts, and they're all having to downsize.
 My wife teaches public school in Montgomery County, Md., where more and more teachers can't afford to buy homes near the schools where they teach, and now have long, dirty commutes from distant suburbs. One of the smartest stimulus moves we could make would be to eliminate federal income taxes on all public schoolteachers so more talented people would choose these careers. I'd also double the salaries of all highly qualified math and science teachers, staple green cards to the diplomas of foreign students who graduate from any U.S. university in math or science -- instead of subsidizing their educations and then sending them home -- and offer full scholarships to needy students who want to go to a public university or community college for the next four years.
 J.F.K. took us to the moon. Let B.H.O. take America back to school.
 But that will take time. There's simply no shortcut for a stimulus that stimulates minds not just salaries. ''You can bail out a bank; you can't bail out a generation,'' says the great American inventor, Dean Kamen, who has designed everything from the Segway to artificial limbs. ''You can print money, but you can't print knowledge. It takes 12 years.''
 Sure, we'll waste some money doing that. That will happen with bridges, too. But a bridge is just a bridge. Once it's up, it stops stimulating. A student who normally would not be interested in science but gets stimulated by a better teacher or more exposure to a lab, or a scientist who gets the funding for new research, is potentially the next Steve Jobs or Bill Gates. They create good jobs for years. Perhaps more bridges can bail us out of a depression, but only more Bills and Steves can bail us into prosperity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MAMMALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (70%); MATHEMATICS (67%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (81%); INTEL CORP (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



379 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Rule No. 1: Do Not Call Him 'Ball Hog in Chief'

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 THE basketball hoop is coming out of hibernation.
 At several junctures during his presidential race, Barack Obama spoke wistfully about the prospect of playing basketball on the White House grounds, where there is a seldom-used backboard on the southwest lawn. In nine days, he will have his chance when he becomes the first president who is just as likely to suit up and head for the court -- not the bleachers -- when the dribbling starts.
 And some basketball enthusiasts are waiting with such anticipation you'd think March Madness was arriving two months early.
 ''The fact that he is a basketball fan and player will be translated around the world,'' said John Doleva, president of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., the birthplace of the game. ''Basketball is an international language. There is a global American message here.'' 
 It is unlikely, of course, that basketball will do much to simplify the multitude of worldly challenges facing Mr. Obama. But closer to home, could he use the court as a place for some old-fashioned arm twisting? 
 Could concerns over his gigantic economic recovery plan, for example, be settled on the free-throw line? Could discussions over his health care proposals be discussed over a game of N-U-R-S-E?
 There will, at the very least, be a long line of people across the capital dusting off their sneakers and tripping over themselves for a chance to sweat with Mr. Obama, who has been playing basketball since growing up in Hawaii four decades ago.
 ''If the president calls, you have to accept,'' said Kevin Johnson, a former guard for the Phoenix Suns who was elected last year as mayor of Sacramento and has talked about sports and politics with Mr. Obama. What would he say if the president invited him to a game? ''That would be his first mistake in office. I'd have to skunk him.''
 Mr. Johnson doubted that the new president would have time to play many pickup games at the White House, but he said Mr. Obama would influence young Americans in immeasurable ways simply because he's got game.
 ''Basketball is available to all people,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''It tells a kid in third grade, no matter what neighborhood they live in, that they can certainly become the president of the United States.''
 The commander in chief's sport of choice, whether it is swinging a golf club or riding a mountain bike or loping around a running track, goes a long way toward establishing the presidential image and identity. But the athletic pursuits of a president are typically photographed only when strategically beneficial, with the lesson of Senator John Kerry on a windsurfer burned into the minds of political handlers.
 It remains an open question how much Mr. Obama will be seen sweating, particularly when Americans expect to see their president working overtime during a recession. Yet even outside the camera's view, there is one minor hitch before any serious games could actually begin at the White House: the leader of the free world is inheriting a fairly shabby basketball court.
 During his two brief visits to the White House since winning the election, Mr. Obama has toured the living quarters, inspected the Oval Office and sat for lunch in the private presidential dining room. But he has yet to set his eyes on the miniature court that is hidden beneath some towering magnolia trees on the White House grounds.
 It is a lonely site, far smaller than many suburban driveways where a hoop may be anchored above the garage. The green surface, which measures 26 by 26 feet, has weathered and cracked a bit since it was installed 18 years ago. The court, which sits next to the groundskeeping building, has one hoop.
 (Before he decides whether he will upgrade the basketball offerings at the White House, perhaps he could drop by the fifth floor of the Supreme Court, where an indoor basketball court is known as ''The Highest Court in the Land.'')
 While a president can place his own stamp on recreation at the White House and order up most anything that he wants, Mr. Obama has already learned the perils of pitting one sport against another.
 Late last year, he found himself retracting an earlier suggestion of tearing out the White House bowling alley -- installed by Richard Nixon in 1969 -- to make room for a larger basketball court. Not only is the ceiling far too low for jump shots and free throws, his office received significant criticism from bowling enthusiasts, who were outraged at the notion of removing the bowling lanes from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
 So Mr. Obama may want to consider taking a lesson from George H. W. Bush: presidents should add, not subtract, sports.
 Mr. Bush ordered up the basketball court, which was dedicated on April 22, 1991. To mark the occasion, he scored 2 points on a left-handed layup that was described in press accounts as ''nearly perfect.'' Two years earlier, he had horseshoe pits installed to supplement the swimming pool and a full-size tennis court that affords players on one side of the net a dead-on view of the Washington Monument.
 Bill Clinton installed a putting green on the edge of the finely manicured South Lawn, which was occasionally adorned by the occasional stray golf ball. 
 There is little evidence to suggest that Mr. Clinton put the basketball court to much use. While he was the first sitting president to attend the N.C.A.A. Final Four, cheering on the University of Arkansas Razorbacks two years after he took office, he lamented to Sports Illustrated that his love of the game was confined to cheering. (''It's a fabulous game, isn't it?'' Mr. Clinton said. ''It makes me wish I were two inches taller and 20 pounds lighter.'')
 Many presidents, of course, have been sportsmen and athletes in their own right.
 Gerald Ford, for one, was a center and linebacker for the University of Michigan's national-championship teams in 1932 and 1933. Theodore Roosevelt was a boxing fan and participant in the sport, which inspired a White House legend that he suffered a detached retina fighting a member of his cabinet.
 But fewer presidential races have contained as many sporting references as Mr. Obama's. Not only was the big-screen television in his black luxury campaign bus locked on ESPN, his advisers also sought to create the aura of a championship team during one of the most crucial nights of his young campaign.
 Less than two months before the Iowa caucuses, with his candidacy on the line against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mr. Obama was introduced at the Jefferson Jackson Dinner by the voice of Ray Clay, a legendary announcer for the Chicago Bulls whose booming voice stirred fans during the dominating streak of Michael Jordan and the rest of the team in the 1990s.
 ''From our neighboring state of Illinois, a 6-foot-2-inch force for change,'' Mr. Clay said, his words filling the cavernous basketball arena as the candidate took center stage, ''Senator Barack Obama!'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH)
CHARTS: The White House Dream Team: OBAMA, BARACK: 6-foot-2. Hawaiian nickname: Barry O'Bomber, coined for jump shot. Retired to be commander in chief.
RICE, SUSAN: United Nations ambassador (nominee). 5-foot-3. Wily point guard. Called Spo on the court at National Cathedral School, short for Sportin'.
DUNCAN, ARNE: Education secretary (nominee). 6-foot-5. Known in Australian pro league as The Cobra.
HOLDER, ERIC: Attorney general (nominee). 6-foot-3. Co-captain of Stuyvesant High Peglegs.
GEITHNER, TIMOTHY: Treasury secretary (nominee). 5-foot-9. Played in New York Federal Reserve league and rarely misses pickup game.
The G.O.P. Dream Team: THUNE, JOHN Senator, South Dakota. 6-foot-4. Top player in Senate gym. Shoots free throws as well as he rebounds.
ENSIGN, JOHN: Senator, Nevada. 6-foot-1. Killer 3-pointer from N.B.A. range.
FLAKE, JEFF: Representative, Arizona. 6-foot-1. Leading House player. Star of G.O.P. teams.
SHIMKUS, JOHN: Representative, Illinois. 6-foot-1. Honed skills at West Point. Coaches at Holy Cross Lutheran Church and School.
 WAMP, ZACH: Representative, Tennessee. 5-foot-10. Aggressive on defense. Regrets height, saying, ''If I was four inches taller, I would have been a pro basketball player.'' (pg. ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); POLITICS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); GOLF (67%); EXTREME SPORTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NAISMITH MEMORIAL BASKETBALL HALL OF FAME (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN THUNE (79%); JOHN SHIMKUS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); KEVIN JOHNSON (66%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); SUSAN RICE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); ARNE DUNCAN (58%); JEFF FLAKE (57%); ZACH WAMP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



380 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Obama Again Raises Estimate of Jobs His Stimulus Plan Will Create or Save

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One day after the nation's unemployment rate was reported to be at a 16-year high, President-elect Barack Obama on Saturday again raised the estimate of how many jobs would result from his economic recovery plan, saying it would create or save three million to four million, nearly 90 percent of them in the private sector. 
 In his weekly radio and Internet address, Mr. Obama sought to inject a positive note into the economic outlook by releasing a report from his advisers that estimated the number of jobs that could be created with his plan by the end of 2010. 
 The report noted, however, that at least five million jobs, and probably many more, will have been lost during the downturn. So even if the most optimistic projections bear out, unemployment in December 2010 will still be higher than it was in December 2007.
 Mr. Obama's address was his latest effort to sell a $775 billion proposal to Congress, whose leaders have pledged to adopt a bill by mid-February, and to Americans stung by the recession. 
 ''The jobs we create will be in businesses large and small across a wide range of industries,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And they'll be the kind of jobs that don't just put people to work in the short term, but position our economy to lead the world in the long term.''
 Without an economic recovery plan, the report warned, the unemployment rate could hit 9 percent, up from 7.2 percent now. If the plan is adopted, unemployment is still expected to rise but then fall late this year.
 The report, and Mr. Obama's speech, also seemed intended to counter criticism, particularly from some Republicans, that his plan would create bureaucracies rather than put people to work. 
 The 14-page report, prepared by Christina D. Romer, who is Mr. Obama's selection to lead his Council of Economic Advisers, and Jared Bernstein, an economic adviser to Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., provides specific examples for the first time of the types of jobs that could be created, including a detailed industry-by-industry breakdown.
 Mr. Obama said his plan could create about 500,000 jobs by making new investments in clean energy, doubling the production of alternative energy over three years and improving the energy efficiency of government buildings and homes. 
 The president-elect said building solar panels and wind turbines and developing fuel-efficient cars would create ''made-in-America jobs'' that could not be outsourced.
 The report also suggested that nearly 400,000 jobs could be created by building and repairing roads, schools and bridges. More than 200,000 jobs could be created in health care, particularly by creating a nationwide system of computerized medical records.
 Some conservatives argue that jobs that exist only as a result of temporary government spending should not be viewed as providing real, long-term growth. On Capitol Hill, lawmakers are engaged in vigorous debate over how best to stimulate the economy and to create jobs. Some Democrats say Mr. Obama's plan would be more effective if it were to focus fewer dollars on tax cuts and more on government spending, especially in the energy sector. 
 Some top Republicans, meanwhile, are pushing for even broader tax cuts. ''We want to make sure it's not just a trillion-dollar spending bill,'' said the Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, ''but something that actually can reach the goal that he has suggested.'' 
 Obama transition officials have said that the president-elect's proposed middle-class tax cut -- called ''Making Work Pay,'' which would provide $500 for individuals and $1,000 for couples by reducing payroll tax withholdings -- is ''nonnegotiable.'' Mr. McConnell is pushing an alternative that would cut the tax rate for most middle-income workers, to 15 percent from 25 percent. 
 In the campaign, Mr. Obama vowed to create one million jobs, and after winning election he put forth a plan to create up to three million. The report now puts the figure at roughly 3.7 million, the midpoint of an estimated range of 3.3 million to 4.1 million jobs by the end of next year.
 Even now, though, it is merely an estimate based on a model that assumes a million jobs for stimulus spending equal to 1 percent of the nation's economic output. 
 In the report, Mr. Obama seems to address the criticism from some Democrats that his economic stimulus plan favors tax cuts over creating new jobs. The report concedes that tax cuts and giving aid to states ''are likely to create fewer jobs'' but says the tax cuts are needed to jump-start the economy quickly.
 ''There is a limit,'' the report said, ''on how much government investment can be carried out efficiently in a short time frame.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama spent a part of Saturday enjoying Washington, which included having a half-smoke, a local sausage delicacy, at Ben's Chili Bowl. Mayor Adrian M. Fenty, right, joined him. The Obama family later visited the Lincoln Memorial. More at nytimes.com/caucus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (84%); RECESSION (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (71%); CONSERVATISM (68%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (64%); WIND POWER PLANTS (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (64%); WIND ENERGY (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (63%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



381 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton's Donors

 BODY:
In the likely event that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is confirmed as secretary of state, the last thing she will need is a distracting ethics controversy.
 That is why Mrs. Clinton's confirmation hearing, now scheduled to begin on Tuesday before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, must cover wider terrain than pressing world issues. It should address the awkward intersection between Mrs. Clinton's new post and the charitable and business activities of her husband, former President Bill Clinton. 
 Last month, Mr. Clinton disclosed the names of more than 200,000 donors to his foundation. It was a positive step toward the transparency that Mr. Obama insisted on before selecting Mrs. Clinton. But it also reinforced concerns about potential conflicts of interest ahead.
 The roster of donors to Mr. Clinton's presidential library and global foundation enterprises include million-dollar-plus contributions from governments in the Middle East, tycoons from India, Nigeria, Ukraine and Canada, and international figures with interests in the policies Mrs. Clinton will be helping to write and carry out. 
 The five-page accord signed by representatives of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Obama could use tightening. For example, the wording calls for disclosure of ''new contributors'' to Clinton Foundation programs. It does not necessarily require disclosing the size of their gifts or the dates they were made. Disclosure of Mr. Clinton's charitable fund-raising and relevant private fees should be done monthly, or at least quarterly, not just once a year.
 The overarching principle should be prompt disclosure of the amount and source of all payments to any Clinton charity or to Mr. Clinton personally by any person or entity with a political or economic interest, real or perceived, in State Department decisions. Ideally, the White House counsel's office would be assigned a larger role than envisioned in screening Mr. Clinton's speaking and consulting deals before any check is received.
 Mr. Clinton has agreed to reduce his fund-raising and administrative role in the Clinton Global Initiative. The international project will no longer accept contributions from foreign governments or hold big events outside the United States once Mrs. Clinton is installed. These are prudent moves. The committee must decide if they are sufficient, given Mr. Clinton's continuing ties. 
 During her confirmation hearing, Mrs. Clinton must make it emphatically clear that past and future supporters of her husband or his work will not get favored treatment by the State Department. Avoiding the appearance of favoritism will be as important as the fact. 
 We believe that Mrs. Clinton has the potential to be a superb secretary of state. We also value Mr. Clinton's work since leaving the White House to help advance the fight against AIDS, malaria, malnutrition and other global ills. He has agreed to greater transparency and more restrictions than any former president, going beyond what law requires. That does not alter the committee's duty to scour the plans for workability and loopholes.
 Everyone should recognize that there is no perfect solution for Mrs. Clinton's particular spousal dilemma. And, realistically, no set of rules, however well-meaning or tightly drafted, can substitute for the exercise of sound judgment and proper restraint. But they can help.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHARITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); MALARIA (73%); AIDS & HIV (69%); MALNUTRITION (68%); LIBRARIES (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



382 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-EXTRA: SELECTIONS FROM OPINION ONLINE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 874 words

 BODY:
THINK AGAIN Suppose that in the long run Gov. Rod Blagojevich is cleared of all charges, and suppose that in the short run his Senate appointee, Roland Burris, is denied a seat and someone else is appointed in his place. What then? Is the second appointee now dismissed because his or her appointment was ''tainted'' (he or she reached office as the result of an injustice)? Does the state start all over again and hold a new election? Questions like these highlight the difficulties and conundrums that arise once the lawfulness of an official action is made to depend on the purity of the person who performs it. If the rectitude of the officeholder is crucial, how far back does one go in an effort to validate it? College? High school? Grade school? Sand box? 
 -- Stanley Fish, 
 ''Roland Burris and St. Augustine'' 
 MEASURE FOR MEASURE Three summers ago I had an engineer friend come out to my barn in western Illinois with an old quarter-inch tape machine. We opened all the doors and windows, hooked up my violin to six amps placed throughout the barn, put microphones inside and out and made four hours of ambient loops. They are static in the sense that almost every note in the scale is in each loop and there is almost no forward motion, just this swirling mass of sound. This creates a sense of time slowing down. So I made a loop for every note in the 12-tone scale, major and minor, with the goal of assigning each to a key on a keyboard, creating a new instrument. I've always loved the sound of a tape machine slowing down or speeding up as it creates a satisfying bend or warble to the note -- much like that sound in an old film when the projector falters a bit.
 -- Andrew Bird,
 ''Hot Math''
 TALK SHOW I was a huge Jackie Gleason fan, despite friends who wondered how I could admire both Groucho Marx and Gleason, whom they considered crude. Watch him in ''The Honeymooners'' or, if you prefer, in ''The Hustler'' and see the definition of the phrase ''never makes a false move.'' Contributing to his collection of neuroses was the fact that, when he was quite young, his father went away one day and never came back. It's said that Jackie went to great lengths to find his lost father, even trying psychics and trance mediums. 
 One of Jackie's writers had been summoned to the penthouse offices of the Gleason show in the Park Sheraton in Manhattan. (In my youth I used to hang around there, in hopes of glimpsing the Great One.) From experience, the guy knew he could expect a chewing out. 
 The writer was on time but the star was not. An hour passed. And then another. The writer, presumably with an already ample list of grievances, apparently decided that employment in a salt mine would be no less pleasant than the current gig. He'd had it. It was time to quit. He announced this to Gleason's secretary and headed for the door. 
 ''What shall I tell Mr. Gleason when he finds no one here?'' 
 The writer vented his accumulated bile with but a few words: ''Tell him his dad dropped by.'' 
 -- Dick Cavett,
 ''A Better Sort of Insult''
 OUTPOSTS It felt lonely and hypnotic here on the Olympic Peninsula, where a jut of land the size of Massachusetts holds an immensity of snow, surrounded on three sides by unknowable depths of gunmetal-gray saltwater. At this northern location, at a latitude equal to Newfoundland, it's hard not to feel the seasonal blues in all their smothering inevitability. Because there were no big-city lights on the horizon, and clouds veiled a thin moon, the darkness had a particularly strong grip. 
 I wanted to get inside by the fire, to drink something strong, to eat something sweet, to find a bear's den of deep sleep. If you live in the north, in places where the sun is an unreliable companion for many months, you can't escape the urge to hide and hoard in winter. But this year, I've decided to fight lethargy with logic, to welcome the new president, the babies just born, to see something other than closure, dormancy and loss in the annual dark season. 
 It's tough, and perhaps absurd, to battle biological imperative. I crave light, pruning high up in the trees around my house to open more patches of sky, keeping the strings of Christmas luminescence hanging into January's bleakness, checking the daily sunset tables for those few jumps of the clock that will hold back the curtain of night until 4:35 p.m., instead of 4:33. 
 -- Timothy Egan,
 ''Hibernation Blues''
 Reader comments:
 Here's why I think you should be optimistic: History is the difference between an actuality and the way reality is understood before the event. The housing crisis, the recession, these are very bad things. But that America has a long way to fall means it has a long way to come back up as well. It will be amazing how bad unemployment gets, but I remain confident that it will also be amazing how much we all care about the families with foreclosed homes and the people who cannot and will not be able to afford health care and what that says about the long-ignored values of communitarianism, simple good will, even patriotism in this country. Two thousand eight was bad for the wallet, but perhaps good for the soul. 
 -- Posted by Pierce Randall 
 For more, nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (60%)

PERSON: ROLAND BURRIS (88%); ROD BLAGOJEVICH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



383 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: The Stimulus Debate

 BODY:
In what his aides billed as a major economic speech on Thursday, President-elect Barack Obama said that 2009 would ''mark a clean break from a troubled past and set a new course for our nation.''
 The ''clean break'' part of the statement seems an apt description for the spending part of Mr. Obama's emerging, roughly $800 billion recovery package. He has outlined some $500 billion for bolstered unemployment benefits, aid to states and investment in the nation's crumbling and outdated infrastructure. 
 But the tax-cut components of the package are hardly a clean break with the Bush years, presuming that is what Mr. Obama meant by the troubled past. To win the support of Republican lawmakers, the package is shaping up to include roughly $150 billion in business tax breaks, even though such breaks are widely recognized as packing very little bang for the buck when it comes to economic stimulus. 
 And to make good on one of his own (misguided) campaign promises, Mr. Obama is proposing to provide tax cuts to people who make up to $200,000 a year. 
 The proposed tax break -- up to $500 for individuals and $1,000 for families -- makes good sense for low- and middle-income Americans, because the money is likely to be spent quickly, thus boosting demand in a contracting economy. But higher up the income ladder -- a couple making $200,000 a year is in the top 9 percent of households -- tax cuts are likelier to be saved than spent, providing relatively little stimulus. 
 The Obama team clearly views the tax giveaways as good politics, helping to win support for the overall package. But the severity of the nation's fiscal and economic situation should make it think twice. 
 The day before Mr. Obama's speech, the Congressional Budget Office projected a 2009 deficit of $1.2 trillion, nearly a threefold increase from 2008. The federal budget -- already deep in deficit after years of tax cutting while waging two wars -- is being pushed further into the red by a recession that is now more than a year old and has no end in sight. 
 Concern over swelling deficits should not stop Congress from taking steps to revive the economy. But rising deficits -- coupled with long-term budget problems driven mostly by the rising cost of health care -- make it imperative to get the most from every dollar that is spent on stimulus. That means spending less money for tax cuts for business and high-income Americans, and more for government programs like, say, unemployment relief and aid to states. 
 The day after Mr. Obama's speech, the Labor Department released the employment report for December, showing that employers had shed more jobs in 2008 than in any year since 1945. Worse, the pace of job loss is accelerating. In the third quarter of 2008, the economy shed an average of 199,000 jobs a month; in the fourth quarter, 510,000 jobs were lost on average each month. 
 Even with a stimulus plan, unemployment will remain uncomfortably high in 2009, and even after it bottoms out, it is likely to revive slowly. That calls for not only extending unemployment benefits but expanding them, so that they cover more workers. Currently, less than half of jobless workers collect unemployment compensation. 
 The deteriorating job situation also calls for ensuring that states do not have to make unduly burdensome cuts in their own budgets. State and local governments are big employers in their own right, and money that is fed through them quickly reaches beneficiaries and contractors, as well as employees, helping to save and create jobs by supporting demand. 
 Every dollar spent on a politically expedient tax cut is money that is not spent where it could do more good. It also perpetuates the corrosive debate in which taxes are portrayed as basically evil and tax cuts as unmitigated good. That is not a debate that Mr. Obama should engage. 
 When the economy recovers, the nation will face a far more difficult task than deciding how to spend its way out of a slump. As a nation, we will have to right the country's severe long-term budget imbalance. That will require reforming health care and cutting spending, and -- yes -- tax increases. 
 Mr. Obama will need to lead that fight too. Planting the idea that tax cuts are not an overarching solution to serious problems is a good place to start. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); FAMILY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (65%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



384 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: For Bush and His Staff, A Season of 'the Lasts'

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: NORFOLK, Va. 

 BODY:
The countdown clocks that President Bush's chief of staff distributed 990 days ago are still ticking; his advisers tallied their remaining time last week and calculated fewer than 300 hours to go. Cardboard cartons are stacked in the West Wing, as files are carefully cataloged for the archives. By Friday, the last official work day of the Bush White House, all but the most senior officials will have turned in their government-issued BlackBerrys and badges.
 This is what Mr. Bush is calling the season of ''the lasts.'' But while life inside the White House may be winding down, the legacy-building is gearing up.
 The White House Web site features an extensive recitation of Mr. Bush's ''highlights and accomplishments,'' including a document titled ''100 Things Americans May Not Know About the Bush Administration Record.'' (First on the list: ''Kept America Safe.'') 
 Mr. Bush devoted his last public policy address, delivered Thursday in Philadelphia, to his No Child Left Behind education bill, one of his few bipartisan achievements. It was no accident that the Rev. Al Sharpton was among the honored guests -- a not-too-subtle reminder, as Mr. Bush himself said, that ''Al and I have found common ground.''
 On Saturday, there was another last: Mr. Bush's last flight aboard Air Force One -- a trip to Norfolk for the commissioning of the George H. W. Bush, an aircraft carrier named for his father. It was a sentimental family affair. 
 The elder Mr. Bush, 84, who was walking slowly with a cane on Saturday as he, his son and their wives stepped off the presidential helicopter and onto the ship's flight deck, told Fox News last week that he regarded the ceremony as ''the last big thing in my life.''
 The younger Mr. Bush used his remarks to pay tribute to ''the best father anyone could ever ask for.'' For the 43rd president, it was a chance to remind Americans of his ties to the 41st.
 ''It's a series of 'Auld Lang Syne' moments, of gathering together friends and allies, and occasionally adversaries, to celebrate the special good moments of the administration,'' said Kenneth M. Duberstein, who was President Ronald Reagan's chief of staff. ''It is done by every president as he heads toward the finish line.''
 The final days of any administration are laden with wistful moments and political spin. But historians say this is especially true of Mr. Bush, who is leaving office with approval ratings so low that his former political strategist, Karl Rove, recently appeared before a liberal audience in New York City to debate the proposition that ''Bush 43 is the worst president in the last 50 years.'' (Mr. Rove said Mr. Bush would most likely not have invaded Iraq had he known that there were no unconventional weapons there.)
 ''They're working hard to build their historical reputations,'' said the presidential historian Robert Dallek. ''Generally, presidents don't spend the last days and weeks in office defending their record. They produce a memoir, they write a volume. 
 ''To spend your waking hours on a defense of yourself speaks volumes about how, in a sense, defeated they've been.''
 Yet to talk to people still inside the Bush White House is to come away with a sense that they do not feel defeated at all. Rather, having been through the crucible of the worst terrorist attack on American soil, two wars, a hurricane of biblical proportions and the gravest economic crisis since the Great Depression, they describe a sense of achievement and honor in having served the country, and in particular this president. If there is sadness, it is only that they must part ways so abruptly by week's end.
 ''It makes high school graduation look like a day in the park,'' said the education secretary, Margaret Spellings, one of the few who arrived with Mr. Bush from Texas in 2001 and still works for him.
 Like all parting White House officials, Ms. Spellings will have the opportunity to bring her family in for an Oval Office photograph with Mr. Bush; her session is scheduled for Friday, a signal that the president is saving his closest allies for last. 
 ''I'm trying to save up all my tears,'' she said, ''because I know it's going to be kind of an amazing and emotional time.''
 Ms. Spellings said she did not know exactly what she would do next -- ''a little speaking and consulting, and maybe some board service,'' she mused -- and that is not uncommon. Those White House aides who can afford to are planning a lengthy break from work; others, confronted by tough economic times and a political climate unfavorable to Republicans -- especially Republicans who have worked for Mr. Bush -- are finding job-hunting in Washington a slog.
 ''Working on the White House staff is an honor and will always look good on a resume,'' said John Feehery, a Republican strategist, who said several Bush officials had sought his career advice. ''It just doesn't look that good right now.''
 In the meantime there are more lasts for the president and his team. On Tuesday morning, he will host his last cabinet meeting. That afternoon, he will present Presidential Medal of Freedom awards, the nation's highest civilian honor, for one last time. The recipients -- Tony Blair, the former prime minister of Britain; John Howard, the former prime minister of Australia; and Alvaro Uribe, the president of Colombia -- have been Mr. Bush's closest allies in the issue that most defines his presidency, the fight against terrorism.
 Mr. Bush has also been anticipating the final ''last'' -- his last day as president. 
 ''I'm kind of an emotional guy anyway,'' he told C-Span in a recent interview. ''I would hate to have the next to last and last day of the presidency be one giant hug-fest. But we will have packed up, and we will have said goodbye to the folks that we have lived with for eight years. And it will be emotional in that sense. 
 ''But I anticipate with great interest watching an historic moment, the swearing in of the 44th president, who happens to be an African-American male. And that's a big deal for America. And I will have a front-row seat.''
 When it is over, Mr. Bush plans to fly to his boyhood home of Midland, Tex., into the arms of family and friends. He will ride aboard the same Air Force Boeing 747 he flew on Saturday, with its familiar blue, gold and white design and the grand presidential seal. But it will not be called Air Force One. That title will be reserved for the new president, Barack Obama. Instead the plane will be named ''Special Air Mission 28000,'' after its tail number.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The two President Bushes and their wives on Saturday in Norfolk, Va., as the carrier George H.W. Bush was commissioned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE THEILER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (69%); HISTORY (68%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (67%); HELICOPTERS (64%); NAVAL VESSELS (64%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GEORGE H W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); KARL ROVE (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



385 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Is There a Better Way to Get There?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Pitch for Mass Transit'' (editorial, Jan. 5):
 The current combination of economic and political forces leaves an opening for creative solutions that address several pressing needs. The incoming Obama administration should redirect the automaker bailout money into contracts to design and build high-speed trains and tracks that can provide the efficient, comfortable and (more) climate-friendly transportation systems similar to those enjoyed by millions in Europe and Japan. 
 We should unleash our industrial capacity and idle workers on public-private enterprises with genuine social, environmental and economic benefits. 
 Can we not demand something tangible and useful for the tremendous investments we are making in our economy?
 David Morris Missoula, Mont., Jan. 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 In the late 1940s, my early-morning business trips to New York from Trenton included breakfast in the Pennsylvania Railroad's club car, orders taken and served by waiters armed with real silverware, cloth napkins and tablecloths. 
 Times have changed, service has changed, but the convenience of railroad travel over the automobile (at least for longer distances) remains. 
 Now, when traveling to Chicago from Ann Arbor, I can read, use my computer, nap and snack, knowing that any one of these activities in the automobile would have very unpleasant consequences. 
 It's a good idea to fix the potholes, but let's put the real money into the railroad.
 Bob Faber Ann Arbor, Mich., Jan. 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial mentions controlling climate change and dependence on foreign oil as primary motivation for financing mass transit.
 However, 9 percent of households (more than 26 million people) in the United States do not have a vehicle, while others cannot afford to drive the cars they own. For many, public transportation is absolutely necessary to collect a paycheck, get an education or receive medical care.
 In one study, single mothers cited transportation as the most frequent obstacle to obtaining health care after cost and insurance difficulties.
 The needs of these Americans must not be forgotten by the Obama administration or Congress.
 Kevin Miller Washington, Jan. 5, 2009
 The writer is a research associate at the Institute for Women's Policy Research.
 To the Editor: 
 For the last 20 years, I lived in or within an hour's drive from Madrid. During that time, I saw an awkward, often undependable commuter bus system grow into hourly and half-hourly service that attempts to relieve expanded roadways that never keep up with the huge glut of traffic. Spaniards have their own love affair with the car and the ''joys'' of suburban living. 
 Taking a cue from patient local city councils in this small agricultural town, we, too, could bring back new, improved, American-made buses and adding jitneys for short runs.
 Filling buses here will take time, too. But while we wait and breathe new life into a sagging American-operated industry, we could look for help from gas taxes.
 Antonia Hyde Carlisle, Pa., Jan. 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 You rightly point President-elect Barack Obama toward an investment in clean air, green jobs and less dependency on oil. But there's more: mass transit will protect the public's health. 
 Besides the obvious benefits of a cleaner environment with fewer toxins and greenhouse gases, mass transit means people will walk and bike more. We can also expect fewer injuries and deaths from car crashes. And the jobs that would be created also benefit the public's health; steady employment means steady income, and for many, health care coverage.
 Public transit is indeed the multiplier effect we've been waiting for: a good solution that solves multiple problems.
 Larry Cohen Executive Director Prevention Institute Oakland, Calif., Jan. 5, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I can think of no transit project more needed or more symbolically potent than the mass-transit line recently approved by Michigan's Legislature for the city of Detroit.
 This proposal is the first step in a long-term vision that connects the impoverished urban core of Detroit with the much wealthier suburbs, stretching all the way to Ann Arbor.
 It would provide easy, affordable transportation in and out of the city and stimulate economic growth. It would also demonstrate to our automakers that motors appear in conveyances other than cars. Perhaps most important, it would be a tangible step toward healing the literal and figurative divisions created as a result of the riots of the 1960s and subsequent ''white flight.''
 Dane A. Barnes Detroit, Jan. 5, 2009
 The writer is an architect and engineer.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEAH HAYES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRAINS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); WRITERS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (63%); SUBURBS (62%); CITIES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



386 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Is Government Spending Too Easy an Answer?

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President Bush.

 BODY:
WHEN the Obama administration finally unveils its proposal to get the economy on the road to recovery, the centerpiece is likely to be a huge increase in government spending. But there are ample reasons to doubt whether this is what the economy needs.
 Arguably, the seeds of the spending proposal can be found in the classic textbook by Paul A. Samuelson, ''Economics.'' First published in 1948, the book and others like it dominated college courses in introductory economics for the next half-century. It is a fair bet that much of the Obama team started learning how the economy works through Mr. Samuelson's eyes. Most notably, Lawrence H. Summers, the new head of the National Economic Council, is Mr. Samuelson's nephew.
 Written in the shadow of the Great Depression and World War II, Mr. Samuelson's text brought the insights of John Maynard Keynes to the masses. A main focus was how to avoid, or at least mitigate, the recurring slumps in economic activity. 
 ''When, and if, the next great depression comes along,'' Mr. Samuelson wrote on the first page of the first edition, ''any one of us may be completely unemployed -- without income or prospects.'' He added, ''It is not too much to say that the widespread creation of dictatorships and the resulting World War II stemmed in no small measure from the world's failure to meet this basic economic problem adequately.''
 Economic downturns, Mr. Keynes and Mr. Samuelson taught us, occur when the aggregate demand for goods and services is insufficient. The solution, they said, was for the government to provide demand when the private sector would not. Recent calls for increased infrastructure spending fit well with this textbook theory.
 But there is much to economics beyond what is taught in Econ 101. In several ways, these Keynesian prescriptions make avoiding depressions seem too easy. When debating increased spending to stimulate the economy, here are a few of the hard questions Congress should consider:
 HOW MUCH BANG FOR EACH BUCK? Economics textbooks, including Mr. Samuelson's and my own more recent contribution, teach that each dollar of government spending can increase the nation's gross domestic product by more than a dollar. When higher government spending increases G.D.P., consumers respond to the extra income they earn by spending more themselves. Higher consumer spending expands aggregate demand further, raising the G.D.P. yet again. And so on. This positive feedback loop is called the multiplier effect. 
 In practice, however, the multiplier for government spending is not very large. The best evidence comes from a recent study by Valerie A. Ramey, an economist at the University of California, San Diego. Based on the United States' historical record, Professor Ramey estimates that each dollar of government spending increases the G.D.P. by only 1.4 dollars. So, by doing the math, we find that when the G.D.P. expands, less than a third of the increase takes the form of private consumption and investment. Most is for what the government has ordered, which raises the next question.
 WILL THE EXTRA SPENDING BE ON THINGS WE NEED? If you hire your neighbor for $100 to dig a hole in your backyard and then fill it up, and he hires you to do the same in his yard, the government statisticians report that things are improving. The economy has created two jobs, and the G.D.P. rises by $200. But it is unlikely that, having wasted all that time digging and filling, either of you is better off.
 People don't usually spend their money buying things they don't want or need, so for private transactions, this kind of inefficient spending is not much of a problem. But the same cannot always be said of the government. If the stimulus package takes the form of bridges to nowhere, a result could be economic expansion as measured by standard statistics but little increase in economic well-being.
 The way to avoid this problem is a rigorous cost-benefit analysis of each government project. Such analysis is hard to do quickly, however, especially when vast sums are at stake. But if it is not done quickly, the economic downturn may be over before the stimulus arrives.
 HOW WILL IT ALL END? Over the last century, the largest increase in the size of the government occurred during the Great Depression and World War II. Even after these crises were over, they left a legacy of higher spending and taxes. To this day, we have yet to come to grips with how to pay for all that the government created during that era -- a problem that will become acute as more baby boomers retire and start collecting the benefits promised.
 Rahm Emanuel, the incoming White House chief of staff, has said, ''You don't ever want to let a crisis go to waste: it's an opportunity to do important things that you would otherwise avoid.'' 
 What he has in mind is not entirely clear. One possibility is that he wants to use a temporary crisis as a pretense for engineering a permanent increase in the size and scope of the government. Believers in limited government have reason to be wary.
 MIGHT TAX CUTS BE MORE POTENT? Textbook Keynesian theory says that tax cuts are less potent than spending increases for stimulating an economy. When the government spends a dollar, the dollar is spent. When the government gives a household a dollar back in taxes, the dollar might be saved, which does not add to aggregate demand.
 The evidence, however, is hard to square with the theory. A recent study by Christina D. Romer and David H. Romer, then economists at the University of California, Berkeley, finds that a dollar of tax cuts raises the G.D.P. by about $3. According to the Romers, the multiplier for tax cuts is more than twice what Professor Ramey finds for spending increases. 
 Why this is so remains a puzzle. One can easily conjecture about what the textbook theory leaves out, but it will take more research to sort things out. And whether these results based on historical data apply to our current extraordinary circumstances is open to debate. 
 Christina Romer, incidentally, has been chosen as the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the new administration. Perhaps this fact helps explain why, according to recent reports, tax cuts will be a larger piece of the Obama recovery plan than was previously expected.
 All these questions should give Congress pause as it considers whether to increase spending to stimulate the economy. But don't expect such qualms to stop the juggernaut. The prevailing orthodoxy among the nation's elite holds that increased government spending is the right medicine for what ails the economy.
 Mr. Samuelson once said, ''I don't care who writes a nation's laws or crafts its advanced treaties, if I can write its economics textbooks.'' 
 The coming stimulus bill, warts and all, will demonstrate brilliantly what he had in mind. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); HISTORY (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



387 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; POLITICS HARTFORD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: In Cutting Budget, State Treads 'Totally New Ground'

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

 BODY:
HARTFORD
DURING swearing-in festivities last week as the 2009 session of the Connecticut General Assembly got under way, some freshly minted members were met with an unambiguous message about priorities. When they logged on to their state computers for the first time, up popped a simulation exercise with a single objective: to cut $2 billion in state spending.
''They'll be a little bit shocked,'' said state Senator Toni N. Harp, a veteran New Haven Democrat who is co-chairwoman of the legislature's budget-writing Appropriations Committee. ''I think it's going to be very tough. They won't know what's hit them.''
The intent of the new computer program -- which Democrats distributed to their members, although the message is the same for both parties -- is to prepare first-term lawmakers for what leaders expect will be the most nightmarish budget session in modern Connecticut history, and one that is sure to require unpalatable choices. 
In this fiscal year, which began July 1, the state is already facing an estimated $343 million deficit, and state experts warn that the gap between state revenue and spending for the next 24 months could top $6 billion.
With the national recession pushing local unemployment numbers, as well as foreclosures and bankruptcies, higher, officials expect that the state's revenues will shrink even further. Municipal leaders are pleading for help for cities that have already slashed budgets and laid off workers. State employee unions are bracing for negotiations that could offer a choice between major concessions and thousands of layoffs.
With those bleak prognostications, everyone expects that the budget woes will dominate the session that will run through June, and that must culminate in a new two-year budget and tax plan. Thirty-one of the General Assembly's 187 members are newly elected, but even the old hands say they have never seen a budget crisis this severe.
''This is totally new ground,'' said Lawrence F. Cafero, Republican from Norwalk, the state House minority leader. ''There was never a time in Connecticut history, at least to my knowledge, when we found ourselves in this kind of fiscal situation.''
Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican who is facing an even larger Democratic majority in this year's legislative body, has scheduled a special session this coming Wednesday to address her plans to resolve the 2008-9 deficit. She is set to unveil her new two-year budget proposal on Feb. 4.
When she addressed lawmakers on Wednesday, shortly after the opening gavel struck, Mrs. Rell didn't mince words about the work ahead.
''The sacrifices will not be easy or painless,'' she said. ''The recommended two-year budget I will present to you next month will reflect that. The cuts must be made, and they will be deep and they will affect every agency, every program and every service provided by state government.
''They will hurt. They hurt me even to offer them,'' she added.
Mrs. Rell's deficit reduction plan for this fiscal year, which lawmakers will vote on this week, calls for diverting about $186 million from various programs: $17.9 million from the new Citizens' Election Program, the state's source of public campaign financing; $12 million from the Tobacco and Health Trust Fund; and $10 million from an account to provide heating oil aid to poor families.
Mrs. Rell said the money that would be left in each of those accounts would be enough to handle their essential tasks.
The governor also wants to siphon $15 million from the state's banking fund; $10 million from renewable energy programs; and $10 million from money set aside for farmland preservation, affordable housing and historic preservation.
In addition, her proposal would cut regular state spending by about $7.1 million.
This is the governor's second attempt to resolve this year's deficit. In November, legislators at a lame-duck session were able to approve only $288 million of Mrs. Rell's proposed $302 million in budget cuts and revisions.
She failed to persuade the Democrats, who control the legislature, to meet on Jan. 2 to approve her new deficit reduction package before the start of the 2009 session.
One indicator of whether lawmakers are ready to take politically unpleasant budget actions is a proposal involving millions of dollars that beverage distributors now get from unredeemed bottle and can deposits.
For the last 17 years, beverage distributors, who have powerful friends in Hartford, have been allowed to keep that money. Mrs. Rell estimates unclaimed deposits could total $13.8 million between now and the end of the fiscal year in June.
State Senate Majority Leader Martin M. Looney, Democrat of New Haven, said the worse the fiscal situation gets, the more likely it is that lawmakers will tackle the bottle deposit issue.
''I think that's going to be kind of a bellwether. If we can't do that, it's going to be a long session,'' Ms. Harp said, stretching out the word long.
One bright spot in the fiscal gloom is the $1.4 billion stashed in the state's budget reserve fund for fiscal emergencies.
The state's leaders are also counting on getting a financial boost from President-elect Barack Obama's administration once he takes office. Mayors and first selectmen say they need assistance even more desperately than the state.
''The city of Bridgeport is kind of ground zero for fiscal teetering right now,'' Mayor Bill Finch said. ''Bridgeport is a couple of blizzards away from bankruptcy.''
Municipal leaders say they want relief from state mandates and the freedom to raise revenues in other ways than property taxes. One option being pushed would allow municipalities to create local sales taxes.
Mr. Looney warned that municipalities are not likely to get as much as ''they are hoping for.''
''A lot depends on how helpful and generous the federal government is,'' Mr. Looney said.
An increase in federal Medicaid payments to Connecticut could provide as much as $200 million in fiscal relief, he said.
Mrs. Rell has been trying to play down expectations about federal assistance. ''It certainly will be a help,'' she said. ''It certainly will not be a fix.''
Another politically sensitive issue concerns concessions by state employee unions. In the 2002 fiscal crisis, negotiations over changes to state labor contracts broke down and about 2,800 state workers were laid off.
''I hope it doesn't end up being a discussion in that context,'' said Dan Livingston, chief negotiator for the State Employees Bargaining Agent Coalition. He said state workers were ready to make ''sacrifices that will assist everybody in these hard times.''
Some leaders argue that the magnitude of the crisis facing the state will force cooperation across the board.
''No one party can do this,'' Mr. Cafero said. ''The Democrats can't ignore us. They want us to share in the painful decision, and we will.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IT'S BLEAK: Gov. M. Jodi Rell gives the State of the State address. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 OPENING DAY: New legislators were sworn in on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); FORECLOSURE (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011



388 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: India Has A Soft Spot For Bush

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

DATELINE: HYDERABAD, India 

 BODY:
-- Manmohan Singh leads the largest democracy on earth. But India's prime minister is gentle of manner and speaks in whispers. One struggles to imagine him professing love without shyness to his own wife. And so it meant something when he recently laid the L-word on a little-loved man: George W. Bush.
 ''This may be my last visit to you during your presidency,'' Mr. Singh told Mr. Bush in Washington in September, ''and let me say, Thank you very much. The people of India deeply love you.''
 Laura Bush is not alone, after all. 
 Among the least coveted jobs in the world today, along with grave digging, is the task of burnishing President Bush's foreign legacy: the complex, competing challenges of Iraq, Afghanistan, the Israel-Palestinian conflict, Iran, Venezuela, Russia, North Korea, China and what many in Europe and the third world see as a tarnished national brand. 
 But love is an unpredictable thing, and it is possible that the love-fest stoked by Mr. Singh and Mr. Bush will, with time, come to be seen as President Bush's enduring overseas accomplishment: the cultivation of India, long prickly about empires, as a partner of the sole superpower.
 ''The relationship with India is one of the few success stories of the Bush administration's foreign policy,'' said Teresita C. Schaffer, a scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, who ran the State Department's South Asia desk under the first President Bush.
 George W. Bush's critics often link his idiosyncratic temperament to his administration's diplomatic misadventures. But among Indians, who in the main have no love for his ideology, even his critics say the traits for which Mr. Bush is so often condemned were, in India's case, benignly applied: his penchant for unilateral deeds, and his moral conviction that democracies are simply better than non-democracies.
 ''Mr. Bush is driven by ideology and instincts, not by nuanced thinking,'' said Ashutosh Varshney, a political scientist and South Asia expert at Brown University. ''Bush's ideology convinced him that, of the two rising stars on the world stage, India was preferable.'' (The other is, of course, China.)
 Eight years ago, Mr. Bush inherited a peculiar relationship with India: a natural partnership in theory that was in practice unnaturally fraught. Despite their being multiethnic and multireligious democracies with an entrepreneurial streak, the two countries had drifted apart during the cold war, and nuclear politics remained an irritant: When there was a Soviet Union, India was loosely in its orbit, while America's fierce anti-Communism drove it toward Pakistan, India's archrival. When India conducted a nuclear test, in 1974, a chilled relationship became cooler still, as the United States blacklisted its civilian nuclear energy program and slapped restrictions on its imports of essential dual-use technologies. 
 In July 2006, 15 years after the Soviet Union collapsed and five years after Islamic terrorists became America's principal enemy, Mr. Bush decisively reversed course. Raising India to the status of a strategic ally, he cut a unique exception in the global nonproliferation regime, proposing that India be allowed to keep its military stockpile even as it gained access to technologies and fuel for its civilian reactors. Over the next two years Mr. Bush used dwindling political capital to get the deal approved by the Congress and foreign governments. When Pakistan requested a similar pact, it was told that such deals were reserved for ''responsible'' states.
 This was the diplomacy of the grand gesture, and when this barrier fell others followed. The American and Indian militaries increased joint exercises. They exchanged trade delegations. Their companies won expanded access to the other's markets. American officials began to talk up India as a rising great power in a new century.
 Gautam Adhikari, the editorial page editor of The Times of India, a leading English-language daily, said the turnaround was ''on par with the turnaround in U.S.-China ties brought about by Nixon starting in 1972.'' In America, the sentiment was echoed by R. Nicholas Burns, who retired last year as Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's right-hand man: ''Within 20 years, the rise of the new U.S.-India partnership will be considered among the most important developments in U.S. foreign policy in our time.''
 As President-elect Barack Obama prepares to take office this month, he has avoided the fawning praise of India that has become fashionable in some Washington circles. But experts on the region say that India-United States ties now have a momentum of their own. Industries in each country now have a vested interest in deepening ties with their counterparts. In Afghanistan, Indian and American teams are working side by side on nation building. And there is the Indian-American lobby in America, which is increasingly influential.
 ''In 20 years I expect the Indo-U.S. relationship to resemble the Israel-U.S. relationship, and for many of the same reasons,'' said Shashi Tharoor, a leading Indian writer and former under secretary general of the United Nations.
 But this new focus on India is also potentially dangerous for the world, because it neglects Pakistan and its quest to grow the ranks of its relatively Western-oriented middle class. Stephen P. Cohen, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, cited America's refusal to grant tariff relief to Pakistani textiles -- a small measure, compared to the nuclear deal -- that he said would have helped to raise the opportunity cost of terrorism in Pakistan.
 ''Helping India while ignoring the pathological developments in Pakistan was no favor to India, let alone Pakistan,'' Mr. Cohen said.
 Within India itself, the closer ties to America have actually complicated the effort to develop India's economy. American trade policy, which has given Indian software engineers easy access to the American market while keeping out destitute Indian farmers, has provoked much anger in India. That anger strengthens the hand of populist leaders who tap anti-American sentiment to block free-market policies.
 And yet the ''opening'' of India is regarded on the whole, by a great many Indians, as a Bush triumph, one whose prescience will fully reveal itself only in time -- that is, if India grows into its assigned role as a new leader of a changed free world.
 For Americans, days away from a new political era, this may seem a time of renewal. And it may turn out that India will simply join America, as Japan has, as a solid democratic ally in Asia. But, with the financial crisis raging and the National Intelligence Council recently conjuring a 2025 scenario called ''A World Without the West,'' there is the real, if fainter, prospect of a more fundamental turning: of an American decline that would give India's rise its greatest significance.
 When empires wane, they live on, as the political scientist David Singh Grewal has argued, by embedding their values, systems and standards in a presumptive heir, as ancient Greece did through Rome and as Britain has done through the United States. Should it falter in due course, might America achieve the same through India -- the preservation at least of the American idea and way of life? 
 That is implied in a cherished vision here -- that if India does become as dynamic and powerful as China, then democracy, multiculturalism and the rule of law will continue to have a forceful champion, with or without America. So will free expression, irreverent newspapers, the separation of powers, elections that actually oust people, the English language as the medium of business, movies that end happily, reality television and the bedrock belief that the best things in a society happen uncoordinated on its streets rather than in its Central Committee. 
 Many Indians believe they are the heirs to this tradition, that it is their special destiny to be a new America. It might be an empty boast; but it might not. And in case it isn't, Mr. Bush will be able to claim credit: for championing that new power before it was fashionable and, ironically, in the view from here, for clearing its path by squandering much of his own country's carefully accrued sway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FRIENDS: President Bush met Manmohan Singh in 2006, before validating India as an ally.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY AJIT KUMAR/ASSOCIATED PRES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); MANMOHAN SINGH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



389 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: At Defining Moment for G.O.P., A Diverse Choice of Leadership

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the nation is on the verge of inaugurating its first black president, the Republican Party is facing a telling choice: whether to elect its first black chairman.
 The contest for Republican Party chairman comes as Republican leaders seek to figure out what the party stands for, as well as what face to put forward as they struggle to avoid shrinking into a party of Southern white men in an increasingly diverse country. 
 The six candidates are four white men, including two from the South, and two black men: Michael Steele, the former lieutenant governor of Maryland, and J. Kenneth Blackwell, the former Ohio secretary of state.
 Because it is a six-way race in which ballots are cast anonymously, it is impossible to project who might win. But party leaders said Mr. Blackwell and Mr. Steele were viable candidates, particularly Mr. Blackwell, who has strong support from social conservatives. 
 The leadership struggle follows a campaign in which Democrats, led by President-elect Barack Obama, made geographical and demographic inroads, despite eight years in which President Bush and a previous party chairman, Ken Mehlman, tried to expand the ethnic and racial backdrop of the party. 
 The Republicans are grappling with sharp ideological and geographical divides, and the question of the candidates' race has not been explicitly raised by the committee or the contenders. ''I think it's color blind; I don't think people are talking about it,'' said Mike Duncan, the current party chairman, chosen by President Bush, who is seeking re-election.
 Nevertheless, racial strains have emerged in the contest. Katon Dawson, the South Carolina Republican chairman, quit his membership in an all-white country club soon before he joined the race. And another candidate, Chip Saltsman, the Tennessee party chairman, was roundly criticized for distributing a holiday CD to party members that included a parody song called ''Barack the Magic Negro.''
 Some Republicans argued that electing a black chairman could prove helpful as the party struggles to rebuild.
 ''Race is not a consideration of why a person should become chairman of the R.N.C., but if the nation can celebrate its first African-American president, I would certainly think the Republican Party could celebrate its first African-American chairman,'' said Jim Greer, the Florida Republican chairman, who endorsed Mr. Steele last week. ''There certainly is an advantage of a credible message of inclusion if you have a minority as chairman.''
 If Mr. Blackwell or Mr. Steele wins the chairmanship, it will still be difficult for Republicans to compete against a Democratic Party that made its way into the history books in November. Mr. Obama will be sworn in just a week before the 168 members of the committee are to gather here to choose the chairman. 
 Even Republicans describe this as their bleakest period since Watergate. Yet the party put another Republican in the White House just six years after Richard M. Nixon left office in disgrace in 1974.
 ''There were other valleys we've been in that were worse than this,'' Mr. Duncan said. ''I'm optimistic. I think we can come back from this. We are a center-right country. Only 20 percent of the people consider themselves liberal. That gives us a huge opportunity. We have to get our message refined. We'll be back.''
 Still, the problems the party faces now are laid out in often-agonizing detail by the six candidates as they appeal for the committee members' votes.
 ''We fell behind in investment in technology,'' said Saul Anuzis, the Michigan chairman and a candidate for party chairman. ''Clearly fund-raising is going to be a major challenge. I think we have a lot of challenges.''
 The party has to choose from a field of candidates barely known outside of Washington. To date, no candidate has shown signs of being the kind of powerful public speaker that party members are yearning for to counter the opposition. Nor has any candidate presented a new message or vision to keep pace with the Democrats, Republicans acknowledge.
 ''I haven't heard a vision,'' said Joe Gaylord, a longtime Republican strategist who was the chief strategist for Newt Gingrich when Republicans seized control of the House in 1994. ''If we do not become a future-oriented, solutions-oriented Republican Party, we are going to be in wilderness for a long, long time.''
 In one telling moment at a debate last week, all six had the same answer when asked to name the best Republican president in the history of the nation: Ronald Reagan. 
 The presence of Mr. Steele and Mr. Blackwell has added some historical resonance to a contest that is usually viewed as a matter of inside baseball. 
 Party officials said this was the first time two serious black candidates had competed for the Republican chairmanship. The Democratic Party elected its first African-American chairman, Ronald H. Brown, in 1989.
 Given the depth of the Republican Party's difficulties -- and the divisions over ideology and region being played out in the contest -- party leaders said they did not think race would be a deciding factor in many, if any, votes.
 ''I don't get the sense that race is a driver in the context of this election,'' said Phil Musser, a Republican strategist who has been leading an effort to get the next party leader to invest resources and attention to improving the party's technological abilities. ''If it is, it's a narrow minority. People are more interested in the plans for the committee and the ideological perspectives of the candidates running for chairman than they are about ethnicity.''
 Beyond that, given Mr. Obama's election and the lopsided support that Democrats drew from African-American voters, several Republicans said it was unrealistic to expect the party to make serious gains among black voters, at least for now. Instead, they said, the party should seek to recover its standing, in particular among Hispanic voters, where Republicans lost ground this year.
 Mr. Steele has drawn criticism from conservatives because, while he opposes abortion, he supports an exemption in cases of incest or when the life of the woman is in danger.
 ''Those who want to obsess on those issues will continue to lose the American public, which is focusing on the economy and education and national security,'' said Mr. Greer, the Florida chairman. ''Values and principles are the foundation of our party. But if you are out of a job, or your 401(k) has halved in value, people are looking for leadership in those areas.''
 Mr. Blackwell, who as Ohio's secretary of state was at the center of a controversy over voter disenfranchisement, is running as a social conservative, drawing support from that still-potent segment of the party.
 Over the years, the party has had its share of criticism over race matters in contests for public office. And the tensions it faces as it tries to deal with these issues were illustrated by problems Mr. Dawson and Mr. Saltsman encountered.
 Mr. Dawson said the focus on his country club membership was an effort by opponents to distort his record and background.
 ''I resigned, I moved on, tried to correct it,'' said Mr. Dawson, who owns an auto parts distributorship. ''The country club issue is so bogus.''
 Mr. Saltsman declined to renounce or apologize for sending out the parody song, saying it was a harmless joke. (Mr. Blackwell and Mr. Steele said they found nothing offensive about it.) Nonetheless, he said, the episode had hurt him.
 ''I don't think it helped,'' he said. ''But I think we've gotten past it and people kind ofsee it for what it is, and what it was, and now my challenge is to talk about the future of the Republican Party.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the competition to be the next chairman of the Republican National Committee misstated one candidate's position on abortion. The candidate, Michael Steele of Maryland, says he opposes abortion in all cases; he does not support exemptions in cases of incest and rape, or when the life of the mother is in danger.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: J. Kenneth Blackwell
Michael Steele (pg.A1)
 J. Kenneth Blackwell, a former Ohio secretary of state, is among six candidates for Republican National Committee chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ETHNICITY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL STEELE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



390 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; WHERE TO GO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2894 words

HEADLINE: 2009

BYLINE: By SETH SHERWOOD AND GISELA WILLIAMS

 BODY:
From the Aegean Sea to Zambia, this year's most compelling destinations are awash in sublime landscapes, cutting-edge art and architecture, gala music festivals, and stylish new resorts.SETH SHERWOOD AND GISELA WILLIAMS 
 1. Beirut
 With a recent (though perhaps tenuous) detente keeping the violence in check, the capital of Lebanon is poised to reclaim its title as the Paris of the Middle East. Two hotels scheduled to open later this year are raising the luxury quotient -- the Four Seasons Hotel Beirut and Le Grey, the latter from the people behind One Aldwych in London -- and a clutch of high-profile restaurants are transforming the city's culinary scene. Traditional Lebanese cooking finds its apotheosis at the cozy Al-Ajami restaurant (www.alajamirestaurant.com), while the glitterati settles into Hussein Hadid's Kitchen (www.husseinhadid.com), run by a nephew of the architect Zaha Hadid. But nothing symbolizes the city's gastro-political awakening like Souk el-Tayeb (www.soukeltayeb.com), Beirut's first farmers' market. The market, founded in 2004, reconciles Lebanon's warring factions through their common love of their country's food. 
 2. Washington 
 Yes, there will be more than a few people in town on Jan. 20, and yes, the recent opening of the 580,000-square-foot Capitol Visitors Center (www.visitthecapitol.gov) has added yet another must-see destination for families. But one of the best reasons to visit the nation's capital this year is its suddenly lively food scene. While fried chicken and banana splits sound more suited to a shopping mall food court than a gastronomic palace, Michel Richard's reverent take on American home cooking -- mixed at times with some Gallic flair -- is drawing crowds to Central Michel Richard (www.centralmichelrichard.com). And Eric Ziebold, the hyperinventive chef of CityZen (www.mandarinoriental.com/washington/dining/cityzen/) is dazzling diners with flashy concoctions like toro sashimi with spiced medjool dates and candied almonds. 
 3. The Galapagos
 The Galapagos Islands, already a popular eco-destination (perhaps too popular, according to some environmentalists concerned about the effects of tourism on the archipelago), will get even more attention in 2009. This year marks the 200th anniversary of the birth of Charles Darwin and the 150th anniversary of ''The Origin of Species,'' the book that was inspired by his travels to the area. Several travel companies, including Abercrombie & Kent, are offering special cruises, but the highest-profile expedition is the one being led by the conservationist Randal Keynes, Darwin's great-great-grandson. The excursion, onboard the Beagle, a modern sailing ship named for Darwin's original vessel, and organized by Steppes Travel (www.steppestravel.co.uk), takes place June 7 to 17. The price is $:3,180, about $4,960, at $1.56 to the pound.
 4. Berlin
 ''Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall.'' Those famous words came to life 20 years ago this year, when the Berlin Wall fell and ushered in a post-cold-war world. To mark the 20th anniversary of Berlin reunification, the city is hosting a year of festivals, art shows, exhibitions and -- this being Berlin -- lots of parties (www.mauerfall09.de). A large exhibition of photos, films and documents, ''Peaceful Revolution 1989-90,'' will be held outdoors at Alexanderplatz. And in the fall, the German Historical Museum will mount ''The Art of the Two Germanys During the Cold War.'' Events culminate on Nov. 9, the day the Berlin Wall was finally breached. No word yet on whether Mr. Gorbachev will be attending. 
 6. Fjallnas, Sweden
 The fascination with high-end travel to the earth's poles continues. Last year, it was cruises through the Northwest Passage; in 2009, it's five-star resorts along the Arctic Circle. The most remote may be Fjallnas (www.fjallnasreserve.com), a 19th-century resort in the icy Swedish hinterlands that is reopening as a luxury resort. Once a retreat for Swedish royalty, the 1,700-acre complex will include 40 tundra-chic suites that showcase the surrounding glacial lakes, jagged mountains and wildflower fields. Rates start at 325 euros, $458, at $1.44 to the euro, including mountain guides. 
 7. Hawaii
 A hotel room on Waikiki Beach for $19.27 a night? That's what the legendary Royal Hawaiian is offering visitors this winter, to mark its reopening after a six-month renovation. There's a catch, of course. The special price is only available as part of a minimum four-night package, with rates starting at about $450 a night for the other three nights. But it's still a pretty good deal if you want to experience a touch of luxury at the famed ''pink palace'' (866-716-8110; rate code1927pkg). Still too pricey? No problem. The recent downturn in visitors to Hawaii, which this year celebrates the 50th anniversary of its statehood, has led many hotels to cut prices for the coming months. Some of the best deals, like a two-bedroom villa on the Big Island for $335 a night, can be found at www.hawaii.com. 
 8. Vienna
 Beethoven and Mozart may be the giants of Austrian classical music, but their mutual friend, Joseph Haydn, finally gets his due when Vienna commemorates the 200th anniversary of his death (www.haydn2009.at). The gilded halls of Musikverein (www.musikverein.at) and Wiener Konzerthaus (www.konzerthaus.at) will present dozens of Haydn works, and Haus der Musik (www.hdm.at), the city's playful music museum, will offer free concerts every Saturday in June and August. Exhibitions will also be held at the composer's former residence, Haydn House, which reopens Jan. 29, and in the ornate Austrian National Library (www.onb.ac.at). Haydn fans are also converging on the city of Eisenstadt, where the composer wrote many pieces. Activities kick off on March 31, Haydn's birthday. 
 10. Dakar, Senegal
 They may not be Billboard chart-toppers, but Senegalese acts like the rollicking Orchestra Baobab, the soulful pop vocalist Baaba Maal and the poetic lyricist and harmonica virtuoso Ismael Lo -- to say nothing of the international star Youssou N'Dour -- have helped turn the colorful French-speaking city of Dakar into a world-music hotbed. For a rhythmic initiation, try the Institut Francais Leopold Sedor Senghor (www.institutfr-dakar.org), a cultural center known for its impeccable music programming, and the funky outdoor patio of the Just4U club (www.just4udakar.com). Or visit during one of Dakar's music festivals. Entering its sixth year, Afrikakeur (www.afrikakeur.net) is a summer gala of music and comedy, while Africa Fete (www.africafete.com) in December is a showcase of West African traditional music, reggae and hip-hop. 
 11. Maremma, Italy
 Four words: George Clooney was here. The Italian coast of Maremma, a raw landscape of pebbled beaches in southern Tuscany, has, for some years, been the summer playground of Italian and English aristocrats. But now the beau monde is all abuzz about Mr. Clooney's visit; he rented the 16th-century Montepergoli villa in the village of Bolgheri. And Bulgari is reportedly looking at the coastline for a resort. Get here before hoi polloi ruin classy hangouts like Zanzibar, a clubby waterfront bar in San Vincenzo, or the two Michelin-star restaurant next door, Gambero Rosso, which the estimable food critic of Le Figaro, Francois Simon, once called his favorite restaurant in the world. 
 14. Chicago
 They're already calling it the ''Building of the Century.'' No, not the new Trump hotel and tower, though the 92-story skyscraper does command attention as Chicago's (and the United States') second-tallest building. The real buzz is the long-awaited Modern Wing (www.modernwing.org) of the Art Institute of Chicago. Designed by Renzo Piano, the immense limestone-and-glass addition opens May 16, and will house some of the 20th century's greatest art, including Picasso's ''Mother and Child.'' 
 15. The Aegean Sea
 Island-hopping around Homer's wine-dark sea is about to get easier -- and cheaper -- with the introduction of EasyCruise's Aegean Islands, Crete & Turkey cruise this summer (www.easycruise.com). The seven-night cruise starts in Athens, where the new Acropolis Museum is scheduled to open. Then the low-frills ship sets across the fabled sea, stopping at the party capital of Mykonos and the Turkish resort of Bodrum, before cruising to the relic-rich Greek islands of Kos, Rhodes, Crete and Syros. Onboard attractions include a spa, a D.J.-fueled nightclub and wines from antiquity's storied spots, including Macedonia and Attica. Odysseus never had it so good. High season rates start at $:409 per person for a double cabin. 
 16. Monterrey, Mexico
 The industrial city of Monterrey may be known for its breweries and steel making, but this fast-growing hub in northern Mexico is also emerging as an arts and party spot. It recently got its first truly fashionable design hotel: Habita MTY (www.hotelhabitamty.com), part of the trendy Group Habita chain. The monochromatic, 39-room tower includes twin rooftop pools and a buzzing Japanese restaurant, Kitchoan. Designweek Monterrey (www.dwm.org.mx), run by the city's well-regarded design school, showcases fresh young talents and is now in its sixth year. And the Museo de Arte Contemporaneo de Monterrey (www.marco.org.mx), in a marvelous building designed by Ricardo Legorreta, has major exhibitions like the current retrospective of the British sculptor Antony Gormley. 
 17. Dallas
 15. Everything is bigger in Texas, and the Dallas art district is no exception. Billed as ''the largest urban arts district in the United States,'' the 19-block area gets bigger when the Dallas Center for the Performing Arts (www.dallasperformingarts.org) opens Oct. 12. The gleaming center includes the Dee and Charles Wyly Theater, a floating cubelike structure designed by Rem Koolhaas that will be home to the Dallas Black Dance Theater and others. Next door is the 2,200-seat Margot and Bill Winspear Opera House. Designed by Norman Foster, the glass box features a red, tubelike core where the Dallas Opera will perform. Orchestrating the move is George Steel, a Leonard Bernstein protege who will serve as the opera's new executive director. 
 18. Bhutan
 Reaching nirvana gets increasingly chic. Luxurious, eco-aware resorts continue to shoot up all over the tiny Buddhist kingdom of Bhutan, ensuring that well-heeled travelers never have to suffer monkish privations. New temples of indulgence include the minimalist-cool Uma Paro (www.uma.como.bz), offering a stylish base for exploring the eighth-century Tiger's Nest monastery carved into the cliffside. The Taj Tashi Thimpu (www.tajhotels.com) resembles a Himalayan palace with 66 rooms, a spa and proximity to the nation's only golf course. And Amanresorts, which opened five ethno-cool Amankora hotels (www.amankora.com) in as many years, is working on its sixth. The latest to open, Amankora Bumthang, is next to a 19th-century palace built by Bhutan's first monarch, and has a sleek, wood-paneled spa that should guarantee the royal treatment.
 20. Rome
 From the Forum to the Colosseum to the Sistine Chapel, Rome has some of the world's greatest -- and most weathered -- cultural monuments. But this year the imperial city will welcome Maxxi (www.darc.beniculturali.it/MAXXI), a futuristic site that will bring two firsts to Italy: its first national museum of contemporary art and its first national museum of architecture. Designed by Zaha Hadid, the site is less a unified lone structure than a convergence of long, shiny, serpentine modules -- a bit like a space-age highway interchange. 
 21. Cuba
 Will 2009 be the year that Americans will once again be able to travel freely to Cuba? In his campaign for the presidency, Barack Obama called for a loosening on travel restrictions to the Communist country -- saying he would authorize unlimited family visits -- but stopped short of calling for a total elimination of the 46-year embargo. But hopes are high among many travelers -- not to mention hoteliers and cruise lines eager to break into the Cuban market -- that the new president will take that next step. If he does, Americans will be part of a growing scene: In 2008, Cuba welcomed more than two million visitors, an increase of about 10 percent over the previous year. 
 22. Penang, Malaysia
 Grilled fish balls in Bangkok? Been there. Spicy pork skewers in Ho Chi Minh City? Done that. Adventurous foodies are turning to Penang, the culinary capital of Malaysia, where they are eating their way through one of southeast Asia's liveliest street-food scenes. Blogs like Fried Chillies (www.friedchilliescom) and Penang Street Foods (www.penangfoods.com) have sprouted in recent years, deliciously chronicling the pan-Asian flavors of dishes like assam laksa -- white rice noodles with fermented shrimp paste, cucumber and pineapples. The best part? There are city-run hawker stands everywhere, and even refined dishes like char koay teow -- noodles with prawns, chili paste and cockles -- rarely cost more than $2. 
 23. Seychelles
 Forget the Caribbean. Even the soft pink beaches of Harbor Island in the Bahamas can't compare with the Seychelles, an archipelago nation of some 115 islands in the Indian Ocean that offers countless miles of sugary sand. The remote islands have been a barefoot haven for wealthy Europeans who shell out thousands of euros for eco-chic bungalows. But the beaches are now opening to the masses -- sort of. A Four Seasons (www.fourseasons.com/seychelles) is opening this month near the gorgeous Petite Anse Bay, with treehouselike villas that teeter over private pools. And Shangri-La and Raffles are reportedly eyeing their own slices of the archipelago. 
 25. Copenhagen
 You know a city is having a design moment when big-name architects are doing zoos. In recent years, Copenhagen's Renaissance-era cityscape has been given a 21st-century makeover with a Jewish Museum by Daniel Libeskind (www.jewmus.dk) that opened in 2004, a curvaceous museum wing by Zaha Hadid (www.ordrupgaard.dk) and a zoo house by Norman Foster (uk.zoo.dk). The architectural blossoming shows no signs of slowing. A glassy Royal Playhouse (www.kglteater.dk), by the local firm of Lundgaard & Tranberg, recently opened, and the Danish National Symphony Orchestra is expected to move into its new, Jean Nouvel-designed home later this month. The high-tech complex, known as the Danish Radio Concert House (www.dr.dk/Koncerthuset), will house four concert halls and an outdoor blue screen for video art. 
 26. Boracay, the Philippines
 The next Phuket? The island jewel of Boracay -- known for its emerald water, white sand beaches and glassy lagoons -- may be just that. Less than an hour from Manila by plane, this small, four-mile-long island has long been a destination for wealthy Filipinos. Now, a new breed of South Beach-style hotels is broadening the island's appeal. The Tides (www.tidesboracay.com), a chic boutique hotel, has quickly become the pool-and-party spot for the Philippine jet set. And later this year, a Shangri-La hotel (www.shangri-la.com) opens with 219 rooms and villas and a 61,000-square-foot spa on a private bay. 
 27. Monument Valley
 Monument Valley, in northwest Arizona, is undeniably one of the most beautiful spots in the American West, a place that inspired Willa Cather to write: ''Elsewhere the sky is the roof of the world, but here the earth was the floor of the sky.'' Now, it's possible to experience this natural wonder up close, with the opening of the View Hotel, the first hotel ever to be built inside the Monument Valley Navajo Tribal Park. This eco-friendly hotel (435-727-5556; www.monumentvalleyview.com) features views of the famed Mitten Buttes from each of its 90rooms, while the ''star view'' rooms on the third floor are said to be ideal for star-gazing. Rates for a standard room range from $95 to $195 a night, depending on the season. 
 29. Castles in Britain
 Live like royalty -- without having to draw upon the royal fortune -- at one of the several historic British castles that have recently been turned into surprisingly affordable family resorts. At Dover Castle, famous for towering over the white cliffs of Dover, a family of six can bunk down at the Sergeant Major's House for as little as $:387 for three nights (seven nights start at $:695, about $1,085 at $1.56 to the pound). Apartments and cottages are also available for rent on the grounds of Walmer Castle in Kent, St. Mawes Castle in Cornwall, and the medieval fortress of Carisbrooke Castle on the Isle of Wight. For prices and availability, visit www.english-heritage.org.uk. 
 30. Cologne
 For nearly 130 years, Cologne's skyline has been defined by its cathedral, a Gothic masterpiece that once ranked as the world's tallest building. So perhaps it's no surprise that modern architects are having a field day at Rheinauhafen (www.rheinauhafen-koeln.de), a former dockyard along the Rhine being reclaimed for public use. The architectural playground includes glass-box bistros like Kap am Sudkai (www.kapamsuedkai.de), the soon-to-open art'otel (www.artotels.de) and galleries like Werft 11 (www.werft11.com). The centerpiece is a trio of glass towers shaped like harbor cranes -- thus its name Kranhauser, or crane houses -- that is a fitting symbol of the city's new, livable waterfront. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A listing on Jan. 11 about 44 Places to Go in 2009 included several errors.
 The entry about Las Vegas (No. 5) misspelled the surname of the director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. He is Dr. R. Keith Schwer, not Scher.
 The Dakar, Senegal, entry (No. 10) misspelled part of the name of a cultural center. It is the Institut Francais Leopold Sedar Senghor, not Sedor.
 The Monument Valley entry (No. 27) located the park incorrectly. It is in northeast Arizona, with a small section extending into Utah; it is not in northwest Arizona.
 And the Stockholm entry (No. 35, on the Web site) misspelled the surname of a Finnish architect and designer. He is Alvar Aalto, not Alto. 
The cover article on Jan. 11 about 44 Places to Go in 2009 misspelled the name of a hotel opening in Beirut this year. It is Le Gray, not Le Grey. 
 The 44 Places to Go in 2009 (January 11, 2009) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANWAR AMRO/AFP/GETTY IMAGES
MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR3)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN C. COX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR4)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS WARDE-JONES) (pg.TR5)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR10)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR11)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MALONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR12)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN SPECHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); CRUISES (78%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); RESORTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & KENT USA LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (50%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZAMBIA (92%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



391 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Economy May Delay Work on Campaign Pledges

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Confronted by the worst financial crisis in generations, President-elect Barack Obama and his Democratic allies in Congress are preparing to delay some of the promises he made on the campaign trail to avoid political distractions and focus on reversing the economic slide.
Although Mr. Obama has not publicly identified which priorities will have to wait, advisers and allies have signaled that they may put off renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement, overhauling immigration laws, restricting carbon emissions, raising taxes on the wealthy and allowing gay men and lesbians to serve openly in the military.
Other signature promises may be addressed in piecemeal fashion in the opening weeks of the Obama administration but then put on a long track toward more comprehensive resolutions. For example, Mr. Obama plans to include what aides call ''down payments'' on his promises to expand health care coverage and promote energy independence in the economic recovery package he is developing, as a sign of dedication to the broader goals. 
The priority setting as Inauguration Day approaches offers a window into the emerging presidency, one shaped perhaps less by the campaign he ran than by the troubles he is inheriting. Surrounded by veterans of the Clinton White House, Mr. Obama is determined to avoid the mistakes of the last Democratic transition 16 years ago when secondary issues and a rush for change undercut a new president from the start.
The economic tumult provides Mr. Obama an opportunity as well as a challenge. While he may have to cast aside some of his goals for the moment, the magnitude of the problem awaiting him in the Oval Office has grown so overwhelming that he has a ready reason for delaying or slowing some initiatives. And as he assembles his economic package, he has the chance to tackle some of his highest priorities all at once under the rubric of restoring growth and preparing the nation for the future.
''I want to be realistic here,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview to be broadcast Sunday on ''This Week'' on ABC. ''Not everything that we talked about during the campaign are we going to be able to do on the pace we had hoped.''
Obama aides said he still planned to pursue the full agenda that undergirded his presidential campaign later this year or perhaps later in his term. ''Our intent is to follow through on all of our commitments,'' said his senior adviser, David Axelrod, ''but obviously we have to prioritize.''
For now, though, said Rahm Emanuel, the incoming White House chief of staff, on domestic policy, only one thing matters. ''Our No. 1 goal: jobs,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''Our No. 2 goal: jobs. Our No. 3 goal: jobs.''
The strategy has unsettled some constituency groups and advocacy lobbies on the left that have been agitating for quick action on their top goals after eight years of a Republican administration. Advocates and lawmakers said they understood that Mr. Obama needed to concentrate on the economy at first and have tempered their grievances so far. But many expressed concern that priorities deferred might become priorities abandoned.
''A lot of people are anxious, they're impatient,'' said Representative John B. Larson of Connecticut, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus.
''They're wondering, 'Is this the only thing that's going to happen?' '' Mr. Larson added, referring to the economic recovery program.
Yet Mr. Larson also detected a willingness to be patient. ''It's understandable,'' he said, ''that all of the priorities they had on the campaign trail may be leapfrogged.''
Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said Mr. Obama's supporters were giving him the benefit of the doubt. ''They understand we have to engage in triage,'' Mr. Van Hollen said.
The issue of gay men and lesbians in the military may be the one that echoes most for those who served under President Bill Clinton and remember how he stumbled over the matter early in his tenure and wound up compromising with the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy that permits them to serve only if they do not discuss or act on their sexual orientation.
Even if there were no economic problems, some Democratic strategists said Mr. Obama would be wise to take his time repealing that policy.
Opponents of the policy said Mr. Obama had a moral commitment to act relatively soon. Many gay rights advocates were already disheartened by his selection of the Rev. Rick Warren, an evangelical pastor who opposes same-sex marriage, to deliver the invocation at his inauguration.
''I'm not talking about a first-100-days initiative,'' said Aubrey Sarvis, executive director of the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, which represents those kicked out of the military. ''I am suggesting this is very doable in 2009.''
Robert Gibbs, the incoming White House press secretary, responded Friday to a question posted by ''Thaddeus from Lansing, Mich.,'' on Mr. Obama's Web site, www.change.gov, asking if the president-elect would repeal ''don't ask, don't tell.''
''Thaddeus,'' Mr. Gibbs answered, ''you don't hear a politician give a one-word answer much. But it's yes.''
Thaddeus did not ask, and Mr. Gibbs did not tell, when that might happen.
Mr. Obama has likewise pledged to follow through with a new immigration policy, but several allies on Capitol Hill said it was not at all certain that could happen this year. Janet Murguia, president of the National Council of La Raza, said Mr. Emanuel told her the issue needed to be addressed without making commitments on a timeframe.
''President-elect Obama has made clear a campaign commitment to address this issue in his first year, and we know he takes that very seriously,'' Ms. Murguia said on a conference call organized by the National Immigration Forum, a group that advocates policies more welcoming toward immigrants. ''And we plan to hold him accountable.''
Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, another advocacy group, said advocates hoped a window of opportunity would open between this September and March 2010.
On issues like immigration and climate change, Mr. Obama may focus on narrow moves first. He wants money in the economic package to double alternative fuels in the next three years, but his promise to enact a market-based limit on carbon called cap-and-trade does not appear on a fast track. ''I'm not sure this year because I don't know if we'll be ready,'' the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, told reporters last week.
The president-elect does not appear ready to scrap Nafta, nor does he seem in a rush to push through a hotly disputed plan making it easier for workers to organize unions.
But Bill Samuel, legislative director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said union leaders were focused on the economic package, which would provide hundreds of billions of dollars for job creation, much of it road, bridge and other infrastructure construction that would benefit his members.
If it takes longer to get some of the union's other priorities, Mr. Samuel said, so be it. ''You can't do everything in the same week.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The New Administration's Priorities: With the economy reeling, President-elect Barack Obama and his Democratic allies in Congress are setting priorities to focus on reversing the slide, while postponing other campaign promises or putting down payments on them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); EMISSIONS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); IMMIGRATION (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



392 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; POLITICS HOBOKEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Challenges Ahead In 2009

BYLINE: By DUNSTAN McNICHOL

DATELINE: HOBOKEN 

 BODY:
 DESPITE an economic crisis that has created a $2.1 billion midyear budget gap and a tough re-election campaign ahead of him, Gov. Jon S. Corzine says he is optimistic about the coming year and confident that the incoming Obama administration will deliver generous amounts of federal assistance to New Jersey. 
 In an interview last weekend over coffee and eggs at a cafe near his home in Hoboken, Mr. Corzine said that he had included $300 million in the state budget from a federal stimulus package under consideration in Washington but that federal aid could actually reach $1.25 billion during the current budget year and double that amount in the next state fiscal year, which starts July 1. 
 He also said he thought New Jersey would be well positioned when the ''inevitable'' economic recovery arrived because of recent steps taken by the state, including cutting the corporate tax rate, extending the expiration date for approved construction and building permits, and reining in overall state spending. 
 ''I think we've taken a very proactive stand to provide economic assistance and to provide a moderation of the depth of the recession, and also lay a foundation for a stronger expansion that will inevitably come,'' Mr. Corzine said.
 On the political front, the governor entered his re-election year with a strong opponent in Christopher J. Christie Jr., a former United States attorney for New Jersey who officially filed as a candidate on Thursday. As a federal prosecutor, Mr. Christie built a wide reputation prosecuting scores of corrupt politicians, including several prominent Democrats. Mr. Corzine also began this re-election year angering his most loyal political constituency, public employee unions, by proposing an 18-month wage freeze for state workers. He is certain to anger more groups and longtime supporters with the more than $800 million in proposed budget cuts announced last week. The recommendations include cutting millions of dollars for community health centers and school aid. 
 ''I think you have to put everything in 2009 in the context of the implications of the recession and the economic dislocation which is resetting your immediate priorities,'' Mr. Corzine said. ''Other than at the depths of the Depression, I think you have to go back 150 years to find the equivalent level of economic stress on the country.''
 Republican critics, including Thomas H. Kean Jr., of Union County, the minority leader of the State Senate, said Mr. Corzine has done little to confront the growing recession or to prepare New Jersey for an economic rebound. 
 ''This is a governor who came kicking and screaming to the Permit Extension Act, who came kicking and screaming to the other job-growth ideas,'' Mr. Kean said last week in a telephone interview. ''I think we need to do more to put ourselves in a better position. I would hope we could work on a bipartisan basis to accomplish that.'' 
 Mr. Corzine tempers the litany of bad fiscal news with the suggestion that the downturn is only a temporary setback. He places much of the blame on the Bush administration and says the incoming administration has been far more responsive to state concerns. 
 ''It's light years,'' he said of the difference between the two. ''I've had more conversations with the people in the Obama administration before they came into office than I ever had'' with Bush administration officials. While Mr. Corzine may be facing a stiff re-election challenge, he said a campaign is not topmost on his mind right now.
 ''Actually I don't follow the ins and outs of other elements because I'm making my priorities what I said they were -- the economy and second, the ethics,'' he said. ''But at some point I fully expect that I'll be fully engaged in a debate on the issues with a candidate, but that doesn't happen until June.''
 Mr. Kean, who said Mr. Corzine would face tough odds of being re-elected because of his record, dismissed the governor's contention that he does not follow political developments. He said the governor commissioned a detailed internal public opinion poll last fall and used the results to shape policy initiatives. 
 Republicans in Trenton have already demonstrated their willingness to challenge Mr. Corzine's moves, including his proposal to postpone his budget presentation by three weeks. He said the delay was needed so that state officials could learn how much money would be coming from the federal government. But the proposed delay has drawn objections from Republicans, who have sued for access to background materials behind Mr. Corzine's budget decisions.
 Last month, unanimous opposition by the 17 Republicans in the State Senate helped derail consideration of a Corzine proposal that would have let local governments postpone $584 million in contributions to the state's underfunded public pension accounts this April. And before Christmas, Republican lawmakers suggested that Mr. Corzine spark the local economy by cutting the 7 percent state sales tax in half during the holiday shopping season.
 ''I can't imagine a more seriously nonconstructive thought,'' he said of the tax-cut proposal. ''I presume we would have financed that with more cuts on education, more cuts on municipal aid, more cuts on Charity Care, under some kind of presumption that the theory of failed supply-side economics was going to somehow or another turn that around and generate that much more revenues.''
 Mr. Corzine, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, spent more than $40 million of his own money on his first campaign for governor, and despite the economic downturn's impact on his personal fortune, he said he would have no trouble mounting a well-financed campaign this fall.
 Many Republicans had been hoping that the re-election campaign would feature a challenge from Mr. Christie. Three other Republicans also have announced their candidacy: Assemblyman Richard A. Merkt, of Morris County; Steve Lonegan, former mayor of Bogota; and Brian D. Levine, mayor of Franklin Township.
 Republicans also hope that Mr. Corzine will be subject to criticism that he is a ''Wall Street wizard'' in the mold of the disgraced financial executives whose speculation helped fuel the continuing global financial problems.
 ''I hear that argument: Let's make him out to be one of those Wall Street bad guys,'' he said. ''First of all, I've been out of there 10 years. Second of all, I don't think the history after I left would justify that somehow I abused either the people's trust or the shareholders' trust. And, so, I would encourage someone to try to attack that way. ''
 In a campaign, Mr. Corzine is also likely to be reminded of criticism of his personal relationship with Carla Katz, who at the time was president of one of New Jersey's largest public employee unions.
 Mr. Corzine paid Ms. Katz about $6 million when their relationship broke off about four years ago. Republicans have sued to force Mr. Corzine to publicly release e-mail messages he traded with Ms. Katz while he was negotiating contracts with state workers' unions two years ago. Mr. Corzine is arguing in court to protect them under the cloak of executive privilege.
 ''I think there are several Republican operatives that decided this is their most important issue to speak to the people of New Jersey about,'' he said. ''I think people are into educating their kids, providing health care to their families, making sure they have a job.''
 Mr. Corzine said he welcomed the chance to defend his record during a campaign. In the State of the State address that he is scheduled to deliver to lawmakers on Tuesday, he said that he would highlight achievements like a decline in the crime rate and a rise in the numbers of adoptions from the state foster care system.
 ''I welcome this debate,'' he said. ''The reality is, in the budget year, when we are done, we will have done $1.4 billion in spending cuts, year over year.''
 He said that outside of California no other governor has had ''to try to find a proportional real cut of those dimensions.''
 It is a dose of fiscal medicine Mr. Corzine acknowledged that few in Trenton were swallowing willingly.
 ''Nobody likes this. Why would they?'' he said. '' I don't like it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (65%); LAYOFFS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); CORPORATE TAX (53%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



393 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: An Extremist Makeover?

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 In the past week, I've twice been close enough to Dick Cheney to kick him in the shins.
 I didn't. It's probably a federal crime of some sort. But a girl can fantasize. I did, however, assume the Stay-away-from-me-you've-got-cooties stance that Jimmy Carter used when posing with Bill Clinton at the presidents' powwow in the Oval.
 The first time was Tuesday, when Cheney left the ceremony where he gave the oath of office to senators. The senators seemed thrilled, especially Joe Biden, who was getting sworn in for just two weeks and was excitedly showing off a family Bible the size of a Buick. But I thought it gave the ceremony a satirical edge to have the lawless Vice presiding over lawmakers swearing to support and defend the Constitution that he soiled and defiled -- right in the heart of the legislative branch he worked to diminish. 
 The second time I crossed paths was Thursday night, at a glitzy party at Cafe Milano for Brit Hume, stepping down as a Fox anchor. It required extreme defensive maneuvers -- much zigging and zagging -- to avoid Cheney, Wolfie and Rummy, all three holding court and blissfully unrepentant about the chaos they've unleashed on the world.
 ''My conscience is clear,'' Rummy volunteered to Bob Woodward, talking about how he's interviewing people for his memoir.
 Woodward was stunned. ''I was as speechless as I was in July 2006 when I interviewed him and he said he was not a military commander, that he could make the case that he was 'by indirection, two or three steps removed,' '' Woodward told me afterward.
 At least Ernst Stavro Blofeld would have the decency just to leave the scene.
 From Gaza to the unemployment figures to the $10.6 trillion debt, things keep spiraling while W. keeps fiddling. Just as when he was in the National Guard and didn't bother to show up, now, as the scabrous consequences of his missteps shake the economy and the world, he doesn't bother to show up. He's checked out -- spending his time on more than a dozen exit interviews that do nothing to change his image as a president who was over his head and under Cheney's spell. 
 Asked by People magazine what moments from the last eight years he revisited most often, W. talked passionately about the pitch he threw out at the World Series in 2001: ''I never felt that anxious any other time during my presidency, curiously enough.''
 Asked by Fred Barnes and Bill Kristol of The Weekly Standard if he had made progress in some areas for which he hasn't gotten credit, the president put trying to privatize Social Security at the top of his list. It's frightening to think where a lot of people would be now if that effort had succeeded.
 After he leaves office, W. wants to go on more bike rides, because biking through Katrina was not enough. He wants to write a memoir, even though the offers are not pouring in as they did for Laura. And he wants to encourage debate at his presidential library on ''big ideas.'' 
 The vamoosing Vice has no apologies about turning America into a country that tortured; indeed, he denies it ever happened. ''Torture,'' he told Barnes, ''that word gets thrown around with great abandon.''
 He's going back to Casper, Wyo., and said he's giving ''serious thought'' to writing a book, so he can continue his extremist makeover. The only thing he can do now is shoot a big lie across the bow and see if it lands. 
 Cheney's theory of executive ''unitary'' power and pre-emptive war and frightening the world was a theory of Constitutional thuggishness.
 Asked last week by Mark Knoller of CBS Radio in one of his exit interviews to name the ''biggest mis-impression'' people had about him, Cheney replied with a laugh, ''That I'm actually a warm, lovable sort.''
 He went on to seriously assert that his image as ''a private, Darth Vader-type personality'' has been ''pretty dramatically overdone.'' 
 ''I think we made good decisions,'' he told Knoller, adding with even grander delusion, ''I think we knew what we were doing.'' 
 He protested ''the notion that somehow I was pulling strings or making presidential-level decisions. I was not. There was never any question about who was in charge. It was George Bush. And that's the way we operated. This whole notion that somehow I exceeded my authority here, was usurping his authority, is simply not true. It's an urban legend, never happened.''
 The fact that Cheney is now putting all the blame for all the messes squarely on W. shows once more how the bureaucratic master outmaneuvers his younger partner.
 Even on his way out, Vice is still on top. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (86%); PRIVATIZATION (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); SOCIAL SECURITY (50%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); JOE BIDEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



394 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Welcome, 44, From 43, 42, 41, 40, 39, 32, 16 . . .

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

 BODY:
EXCEPT perhaps for Jimmy Carter, Barack Obama arrives at the White House having the fewest obligations to the established political order in modern times. But administrations never really start from scratch, no matter how stark the change in policies from their predecessors.
 Last week, at Mr. Obama's urging and President Bush's invitation, the former presidents gathered for the ultimate power lunch to trade stories and advice. We've broadened that gathering to list some of the ideas, traits and personnel from previous administrations that may guide President Obama. BILL MARSH 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Obama quoted Franklin Roosevelt's celebrated words from the first inaugural -- ''the only thing we have to fear is fear itself'' -- in the campaign and has since seemed to borrow freely from the Roosevelt playbook. Following Roosevelt, Obama has promised to act quickly and bolster a faltering economy with an array of measures, including a large public-works program, and stricter regulations on Wall Street.
During the campaign, Obama credited Ronald Reagan with changing''thetrajectory of America in a way that Richard Nixon did not and in a way that Bill Clinton did not. He put us on a fundamentally different path because the country was ready for it.'' Obama's campaign consciously echoed themes of hope and optimism projected by Reagan.
Obama, on changing U.S. foreign policy, during the campaign: ''This is not an argument between Democrats and Republicans. It's an argument between ideology and foreign policy realism. I have enormous sympathy for the foreign policy of George H.W. Bush.'' Brent Scowcroft, Bush's national security adviser, is now an Obama adviser.
Like George W. Bush, Obama has surrounded himself with a tightly disciplined organization that stays implacably on message. After repeatedly attacking Mr. Bush's foreign policy during the campaign, President-elect Obama promptly announced he would be keeping on Bush's defense secretary, Robert M. Gates.
Like Obama, Bill Clinton, who campaigned during a recession and proposed an economic stimulus, took office with Congressional majorities. But Senate Republicans, led by Bob Dole, repeatedly used the filibuster and the bill was gutted. Can Obama avoid this fate?
Jimmy Carter is now recognized as an early innovator on energy and environmental policy, where Obama hopes to make big strides. Like Obama, Carter was an outsider who was propelled to the nomination after a victory in the Iowa caucus. The two feel strongly about political ethics and the corrupting influence of money.
Obama's March 2008 speech on race has been likened to the Cooper Union speech that catapulted Abraham Lincoln to the forefront of the 1860 campaign. At his victory rally in Chicago, Obama quoted from the conciliatory words Lincoln delivered at his first inaugural: ''We are not enemies, but friends -- though passion may have strained it must not break our bonds of affection.''
Yes, John F. Kennedy's daughter, Caroline, endorsed Obama. But there are also the Harvard ties: McGeorge Bundy and Arthur Schlesinger Jr. worked for J.F.K.
Obama tapped Lawrence H. Summers, the ex-Harvard president.
Obama admires Harry S. Truman's boldness in establishing a postwar order. Under Truman, NATO was formed and the Marshall Plan created. Obama has also emphasized multilateralism and diplomacy.(PHOTOGRAPH OF LIVING PRESIDENTS BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES
 OTHER PHOTGRAPHS FROM THE NEW YORK TIMES AND ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); MARSHALL PLAN (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JIMMY CARTER (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ROBERT M GATES (68%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



395 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Ordinary People vs. Extraordinary Problems

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN the late summer and early fall of 1974, President Gerald R. Ford invited me to a small number of cabinet meetings on subjects connected with speeches I was writing. My former boss, Richard M. Nixon, had generally not invited speechwriters to his cabinet meetings, and I was certainly not invited to them, though I became quite close to Mr. Nixon in later years.
 The Ford cabinet experience was educational. The men and women in the room, high-ranking White House officials and secretaries of cabinet departments, were pleasant and well briefed. But they struck me as similar to small-town Rotary Club members or Junior Chamber of Commerce officials -- polite and cordial, but far from rocket scientists. They were just high-average to B+ status, with the exception of some supersmart types like Henry Kissinger. 
 I have similar recollections of many of my colleagues in the Nixon White House. Some were just blowhards of no special ability. They did not know the answers to the deep questions in America and the world. They were just people. 
 This lesson is in my mind as we contemplate the end of eight years of the George W. Bush administration and the beginning of the Barack Obama administration.
 People with great resumes got us into this incredibly dicey pickle about credit. But when compared with the scope of the crisis, they were ordinary. The credit issue is complex, and there is plenty of blame to go around. But while some foresighted people had inklings of danger, the exact total magnitude of the liabilities associated with low-grade credit instruments was not known, as far as I am aware, to anyone.
 Hence, by the time the size of the iceberg became apparent, the Titanic was hard put to stop.
 True, it seemed crystal-clear that abandoning Lehman to bankruptcy would be a disaster, but only to those who wanted to see. I don't really know what Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, were thinking. 
 And, earlier in 2008 and back to late 2007, why didn't the Fed and the Treasury cut rates and start a much bigger stimulus package much sooner? Well, the price signals that would have told them of the recessionary problems were obscured by speculative bubbles in energy and other commodities. These bubbles were so extreme that they fooled policy makers into thinking that the problem was inflation, not recession. 
 This does not make the Bush administration's policymakers fools. Many people believed that we were in a genuine energy supply crisis that pointed toward a worldwide inflationary crisis. Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson did not see the bubble, but then federal officials never see bubbles. This just shows that they're human. They cannot be expected to be geniuses, and even geniuses are often wrong, and in the face of crisis, merely ordinary people.
 Right now, I think it's obvious that the next step for policy is the issuance of guarantees for banks that make loans. This should get credit flowing again, almost instantly. For some reason, Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson don't see it, but maybe they are right and I am wrong. We are all just people. Humans are very small when compared with the complexity and difficulty of life.
 I do not expect that things will be substantially different for the new team under Barack Obama. Mr. Obama has the reputation of being terribly smart, and he obviously ran a great campaign. But his policy prescriptions as senator were quite ordinary, and his statements as presidential candidate and now as president-elect have seemed to me just catch phrases and standard Democratic pablum. His career as a law professor was not noteworthy for scholarship. He may seem more impressive upon inauguration, but I respectfully suggest that the pickings are slim so far. 
 The top officials in the White House economic policy hut are smart folks with fine credentials. But Paul H. O'Neill, President Bush's first Treasury secretary, was as smart a man as I ever met, and he hardly lasted two years.
 Going back a few more years, the John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson teams were supposed to be ''the best and the brightest.'' They undoubtedly contained some brilliant people -- who led us into disaster in Cuba and Vietnam. Similarly, I think that Mr. Kissinger was and is an astonishing, off-the-charts genius. He accomplished basically zero in Vietnam. 
 SO let me make it even clearer: The Obama people could be wonderful, smart people, an order of magnitude above what I saw at the Ford cabinet meetings. Obviously, many people believe that they are.
 But they are just human beings, albeit in some cases human beings with glowing resumes. I do not see the supermen and superwomen. They do not have the gift of foresight. They have never been in a situation like this, at least not exactly. There is simply no good reason to believe they will get it right except by trial and error, turning the tumblers until the safe eventually opens. The problems we face now are so large that they humble the average and the above average and even the very much above average.
 High-level bureaucrats, like high-level professors or doctors or investment bankers or baseball pitchers, are just people, whether serving with Bush 43 or Barack Obama or anyone else. I can vividly recall leaving those long-ago cabinet meetings and saying to myself as I walked across West Executive Avenue, ''Put not your trust in princes.'' It's a proverb for a good reason -- then, now, and always. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (90%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



396 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: January 11, 2009

 BODY:
International
DEATH ON AUSTRIAN SLOPE
Stirs German Politics
A deadly skiing accident in Austria in which a woman was killed after colliding with a powerful German politician has captivated Germany. The seemingly straightforward human tragedy has evolved into a criminal inquiry of involuntary manslaughter with political ramifications. PAGE 8
BIDEN VISITS AFGHANISTAN
Although the incoming Obama administration has promised to make the war in Afghanistan a priority, they have not precisely spelled out how they intend to deal with it. Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. landed in Kabul, Afghanistan, for talks with American and Afghan leaders about the war. PAGE 10
GAZA TUNNELS UNDER FIRE 
The 1.5 million Palestinians in Gaza regard underground tunnels as a vital lifeline to the outside world, using them to obtain everything from cigarettes to infant formula. But in addition to the smuggling of everyday goods, the tunnels are being used by Hamas, Israel says, and are now a principal focus of Israel's military operation in the Gaza Strip. PAGE 14
Turkish Leader's Criticism 14
National
A BALLOT MEASURE TESTS
English's Official Role
In a proposal that has dominated local politics for two years, Eric Crafton, a councilman, hopes to make Nashville the largest American city to prohibit the government from using languages other than English. Mr. Crafton calls the campaign ''English First,'' while critics call it ''English Only.'' PAGE 16
FINANCE LAWS SCRUTINIZED
A federal investigation into whether Gov. Bill Richardson's aides steered a consulting contract to a political backer cost him a cabinet post in the Obama administration. But it also focused attention on New Mexico's loose campaign-finance laws, which place no caps on donations. PAGE 16
CALIFORNIA AVOCADOS
And the High Life
Even as California's avocado farmers suffer through one of their worst slumps, a blistering report by the state's Department of Food and Agriculture paints the California Avocado Commission as free-spending with employees buying season tickets for sporting events, getting paid gym memberships, and running up large clothing bills. PAGE 16
BUSH'S FINAL FLIGHT
President Bush's advisers are tallying their remaining ''lasts.'' On Saturday, for instance, Mr. Bush took a trip to Norfolk, Va., for the commissioning of an aircraft carrier named after his father -- which marked his last flight aboard Air Force One. PAGE 17
New YorkGOVERNOR WITHOUT MONEY
Seeks to Improve Health
As Gov. David A. Paterson promotes his anti-obesity measures, from a sugar tax on soft drinks to posting calorie counts in chain restaurants, he has joined the medical movement of blaming people for their bad health. But aside from the effort's lack of financing, making lifestyle changes is easier said than done. News analysis. PAGE 23
MEETING WITH KENNEDY
Gov. David A. Paterson met with Caroline Kennedy to discuss for the first time her interest in being appointed to the United States Senate, according to two people with knowledge of the meeting, suggesting that the long and at times circus-like selection process may be drawing toward an end. PAGE 25
A MAYOR IS MOURNED
Hartford's former mayor, Mike Peters, had built the rare sort of persona that seemed to merge with the city he once ran. Still, until he died of liver failure last Sunday, residents never grasped the depth of that bond, and they still haven't come to grips with his absence. Peter Applebome, Our Towns. PAGE 25
Neediest Cases 24
Obituaries
DR. DONALD F. GLEASON, 88
He devised the Gleason score, which has been used to help determine the aggressiveness of prostate cancer in millions of men. PAGE 27
Sports
BALANCING OUTRAGES,
Civic and Sporting
It's hard to be a sports columnist these days, George Vecsey writes. They are supposed to bay at the moon over the burning issues of inept trades or expensive free-agent signings, but then they see people lobbing rockets and it's hard to be edgy over something as trivial as America's not having a college football playoff. What's a sports columnist to do? PAGE 2
SAME OLD JETS
The New York Jets have familiar postseason plans: They must hire a head coach. The coach who replaces Eric Mangini, above, will be the 17th in ahectic half-century in which the Jets have seldom been a serious contender, Dave Anderson writes. PAGE 7
THE KING OF STOLEN BASES
Eyes a Hall of Fame Spot
Rickey Henderson, the greatest leadoff hitter in baseball history with 1,406 stolen bases, is expected to be elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame. Dennis Eckersley, the Hall of Fame closer and Henderson's teammate on the Oakland Athletics, said, ''He's the greatest player I ever played with.'' PAGE 2
INTERCEPTING UNRULY FANS
With the stakes so great, the rivalry between the Giants and the Eagles may spark unruly behavior among fans at their divisional playoff game -- or perhaps not. But the crowd may remain peaceful, thanks to posted telephone numbers that fans can text message to summon security guards. PAGE 5
Week In Review
REACHING A CROSSROAD
For America and Russia
Russia had been emboldened by revenue from oil and gas, but its economy has faltered as oil prices dropped and the government used its money to shore up the ruble. Does Russia's downturn augur a thaw in relations with the United States? WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 1
A CLUB THAT NEVER MEETS
Last week, President Bush held a luncheon at the White House for all the living U.S. presidents as well as President-elect Barack Obama. With so much wisdom to be gleaned from picking their predecessors' brains, why don't presidents meet or consult each other more often? WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 3
Editorial
THE STIMULUS DEBATE
The Obama team clearly views tax giveaways as good politics, helping to win support for its overall package. But rising deficits make it imperative to get the most from every stimulus dollar. That means spending less on tax cuts for business and high-income Americans, and more on government spending for such things as unemployment relief. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
Op-Ed
FRANK RICH
After eight years of Madoff-style management at home and abroad, there are still too many unanswered questions. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
The brothel business model is more vulnerable than it looks. There are ways to make enslaving girls more risky and less profitable, so that traffickers give up in disgust. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 12
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
Do we want an economic stimulus package that looks like a pig, or like a gazelle? WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
NOTES FROM THE CHAIRMAN
In an essay on the Op-Ed page, Bono, the lead singer of U2 and a contributing columnist for The Times, explains how listening to Frank Sinatra can improve one's understanding of life. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 12
PUBLIC EDITOR
Violence has broken out again between Israel and Palestinians in Gaza, and The Times is caught in a familiar crossfire, accused from all sides of unfair and inaccurate coverage. Clark Hoyt takes a look. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
Travel
PHUKET RECOVERS AFTER DEVASTATING TSUNAMI
Phuket, Thailand, has regained its paradise landscape since the 2004 tsunami. That's good, too, because the Thailand's tourism authority expects full recovery for its industry. Page 6
Kids in Margaritaville 11
The Magazine
WHOM WOULD JESUS
Smack Down?
The Seattle minister Mark Driscoll is out to transform American evangelicalism with his macho conception of Jesus Christ and the neo-Calvinist belief in the total depravity of man. Page 20 Nothing to Wear To the Apocalypse? 38
Sunday Business
LOVIN' IT, AGAIN
It wasn't long ago that McDonald's, vilified as making people fat, was written off as irrelevant. Now, six years into a rebound spawned by more appealing food and a less aggressive expansion, McDonald's seems to have won over some of its most hardened skeptics. PAGE B1
Arts & Leisure
NEW JUDGE FOR 'IDOL'
The award-winning songwriter Kara DioGuardi will join the roster of judges on Fox's ''American Idol.'' Fox officials say she brings to the table, pun intended, some credibility and perhaps some weight to what has largely become a comedy troupe with a musical bent. Page 1
Sunday Styles
DADDY'S HOME.
Now What?
As Wall Street shakes off tens of thousands of jobs, affluent couples in the New York area find their families suddenly in flux. For some, the traditional model -- executive husband and stay-at-home wife -- is proving to be unworkable. PAGE 1
Book Review
INTERRUPTING A MURDER
For an Anatomy Lesson
It's a neat trick: stopping the action in a book in the middle of an assault, for an aside explaining the similarities of a leg and an arm when it comes to breaking, as in Josh Bazell's ''Beat the Reaper.'' (This is what happens when the protagonist is a hitman who becomes a physician.) Page 8
Automobiles
A GRIMMER AUTO SHOW
Detroit is putting on a festive face for the North American International Auto Show, but this year's edition will still be a decidedly more subdued affair. PAGE 1

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); SKIING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SPORTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); HAMAS (75%); SMUGGLING (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (68%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); REFERENDUMS (67%); MILITARY VESSELS (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (67%); RESTAURANTS (62%); OBESITY (62%); SOFT DRINKS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); GERMANY (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); TURKEY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



397 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Goes for Gasless Cars, but Will Drivers?

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Lindsay Brooke contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
Inside the Ford Motor Company, it was called Project M -- to build a prototype of a totally electric, battery-powered car in just six months.
 When it was started last summer, the effort was considered a tall order by the small team of executives and engineers assigned to it. After all, the auto industry can take years to develop vehicles.
But Ford was feeling pressure from competitors, and decided it could not afford to fall behind in the rapidly expanding race to put electric cars in dealer showrooms. 
 ''Frankly, I think it's a gamble not to do it,'' William C. Ford Jr., the company's executive chairman, said in an interview. ''It's clear that society is headed down this road.'' 
 Certainly, Ford and other carmakers are betting billions of dollars on this new direction, at a time when they can ill afford it and when Detroit is facing government scrutiny after the $17.4 billion bailout of G.M. and Chrysler. 
 Throughout the cavernous Detroit auto show hall, typically the high temple of brute horsepower, auto companies will be competing this week to establish their green and electric credentials. On Sunday, when the show opens, Ford will announce plans for its electric vehicle, including a goal to start selling them by 2011.
 These are risky bets. There are no guarantees that consumers -- for all their stated concerns about global warming, dependence on foreign oil and unpredictable gas prices -- will buy enough of them. They may balk, for example, at the limits on how far they can drive on a single charge.
 But the companies could get some help from President-elect Barack Obama. He has said he is committed to promoting cleaner cars, and may propose incentives to encourage consumers and businesses to buy them.
 Ford plans to make only 10,000 of the electric vehicles a year at first -- very few by Detroit standards -- to test the market cautiously.
 Still, Mr. Obama's interest, and the scope of projects by Ford and others, is convincing some environmentalists that the industry is serious about electric cars. 
 ''I think the days of the gasoline engine are numbered, even if we don't know exactly what that number is,'' said Daniel Becker, head of the Safe Climate Campaign, which is part of the Center for Auto Safety consumer advocacy group in Washington.
 The competition over electrics is picking up speed and players. Toyota, which has so far focused its efforts on hybrid models, will display a battery-powered concept car at the Detroit show. Nissan's chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, has promised to sell an electric car in the United States and Japan as early as next year.
 Two Japanese automakers, Mitsubishi and Fuji Heavy Industries, the parent company of Subaru, are also testing electric cars. And Chrysler, the most troubled of Detroit's three auto companies, has vowed to produce its first electric car by 2010.
 The surge toward electric vehicles also appears to be jump-starting investments in advanced-battery production in the United States. General Motors will announce plans at the auto show to build a factory in the United States to assemble advanced batteries for its Chevrolet Volt model, which it expects to start selling next year. 
 American auto executives have warned that without homegrown suppliers, the country could potentially become as dependent on Asian-made batteries as it is on oil from the Middle East and elsewhere. 
 ''Automakers cannot afford the batteries until they are produced in a certain volume,'' said Brett Smith, an industry analyst at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''But they can't be produced in volume until companies make a big manufacturing investment.''
 Strong consumer demand has to be part of that equation, too. And it remains unclear whether consumers will be comfortable with the idea of buying an electric car, or whether these vehicles will priced to compete with comparable gas-powered models. 
 Ford would not say what its electric car will cost. The Chevrolet Volt is expected to cost around $40,000.
 ''It's the right time to take this step, but it would be presumptive to try and predict what the market is ultimately going to look like,'' said Derrick M. Kuzak, Ford's chief of global product development.
 So far, consumers have proved to be fickle about how much they care about fuel economy. When gas prices soared above $4 a gallon last year, sales of the market-leading Prius hybrid surged so quickly that Toyota could not build them fast enough. But demand sagged when gas prices dropped below $2 a gallon.
 Industry analysts also note that electric models could be a harder sell than hybrids, which have a gasoline engine to assist and recharge battery packs, freeing them from the need to be plugged in.
 Most of the prospective electric models need to be charged for several hours to cover a day's worth of driving. Ford estimates that its car will need at least a six-hour charge to travel 100 miles. The Volt can get 40 miles on battery power alone, and it has a small gasoline engine that drives a generator to extend its range.
 Americans, on average, drive their cars less than 35 miles a day, according to the latest federal statistics, and the industry is likely to play up that fact in its advertising campaigns. With so many families owning two cars, they may see an electric vehicle as an attractive choice for short commutes and running errands.
 One way to potentially take the worry out of being stuck with a spent battery is to allow consumers to change them on the fly. The firm Better Place, of Palo Alto, Calif., is working with Nissan and other carmakers to set up stations to offer quick battery exchanges or plug-in charging outlets in Japan, Israel, Denmark and elsewhere. The company has also signed partnership deals in Hawaii and California.
 ''What will determine the market is not going to be how far your battery can go, but how far your infrastructure is spread so power is available,'' said Shai Agassi, the chief executive of Better Place.
 The American auto industry's most notable previous foray into electric vehicles came in the late 1990s, when G.M. introduced the EV-1. That car, which was available in limited numbers only through leases, was pulled from production before it could build a following (though a 2006 documentary about the EV-1 -- ''Who Killed the Electric Car?'' -- has developed a following of its own). 
 Now most of the major car companies have years of experience with hybrid vehicles and their electric systems. While Ford's Project M was started last year, executives said the company had been moving in this direction since early this decade. Ford first started selling its Escape hybrid S.U.V. in 2004.
 Mr. Ford recalled how he used to drive an experimental electric Ranger pickup truck to work each day. ''The reason we used a Ranger was because the whole back bed was full of lead-acid batteries,'' he said.
 The advent of smaller, more advanced lithium-ion batteries has also allowed the car companies to develop electric cars that look, feel and handle much like conventional vehicles.
 Ford and its supplier partner, the Canadian firm Magna International, built the Project M prototype in the body of a Ford Focus compact car. It is planning a more distinctive design for the finished product when it goes on the market in two years.
 The modest expectations for initial sales are reflected in Ford's plan for introducing the car at the auto show Sunday. There won't be the usual dry ice, flashing lights and pounding music.
 Instead, there will be a simple announcement at a news conference, and the car will be parked on the street in front of the convention center, available for short test drives by journalists through downtown Detroit. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with the continuation of an article about Detroit's gamble on electric cars misidentified, in some editions, the car shown. It was a Chevrolet Volt, not Ford's Project M prototype.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Despite an electric car's challenges, ''I think it's a gamble not to do it,'' William C. Ford Jr. said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 The head of Ford, William C. Ford Jr., with the all-electric Project M prototype, built in a Focus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BAILOUTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); SALES & SELLING (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); CONSUMER LAW (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (58%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 7270 (TSE) (58%); 7201 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009



398 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 5059 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Worst Pakistan Nightmare

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER. 
David E. Sanger is chief Washington correspondent for The New York Times. His book ''The Inheritance: The World Obama Confronts and the Challenges to American Power,'' from which this article is adapted, will be published this week by Harmony Books.

 BODY:
TO GET TO THE HEADQUARTERS of the Strategic Plans Division, the branch of the Pakistani government charged with keeping the country's growing arsenal of nuclear weapons away from insurgents trying to overrun the country, you must drive down a rutted, debris-strewn road at the edge of the Islamabad airport, dodging stray dogs and piles of uncollected garbage. Just past a small traffic circle, a tan stone gateway is manned by a lone, bored-looking guard loosely holding a rusting rifle. The gateway marks the entry to Chaklala Garrison, an old British cantonment from the days when officers of the Raj escaped the heat of Delhi for the cooler hills on the approaches to Afghanistan. Pass under the archway, and the poverty and clamor of modern Pakistan disappear. 
 Chaklala is a comfortable enclave for the country's military and intelligence services. Inside the gates, officers in the army and the Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, known as the ISI, live in trim houses with well-tended lawns. Business is conducted in long, low office buildings, with a bevy of well-pressed adjutants buzzing around. Deep inside the garrison lies the small compound for Strategic Plans, where Khalid Kidwai keeps the country's nuclear keys. Now 58, Kidwai is a compact man who hides his arch sense of humor beneath a veil of caution, as if he were previewing each sentence to decide if it revealed too much. In the chaos of Pakistan, where the military, the intelligence services and an unstable collection of civilian leaders uneasily share power, he oversees a security structure intended to protect Pakistan's nuclear arsenal from outsiders -- Islamic militants, Qaeda scientists, Indian saboteurs and those American commando teams that Pakistanis imagine, with good reason, are waiting just over the horizon in Afghanistan, ready to seize their nuclear treasure if a national meltdown seems imminent. 
 In the second nuclear age, what happens or fails to happen in Kidwai's modest compound may prove far more likely to save or lose an American city than the billions of dollars the United States spends each year maintaining a nuclear arsenal that will almost certainly never be used, or the thousands of lives and hundreds of billions of dollars we have spent in Iraq and Afghanistan to close down sanctuaries for terrorists. 
 Just last month in Washington, members of the federally appointed bipartisan Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism made it clear that for sheer scariness, nothing could compete with what they had heard in a series of high-level intelligence briefings about the dangers of Pakistan's nuclear technology going awry. ''When you map W.M.D. and terrorism, all roads intersect in Pakistan,'' Graham Allison, a Harvard professor and a leading nuclear expert on the commission, told me. ''The nuclear security of the arsenal is now a lot better than it was. But the unknown variable here is the future of Pakistan itself, because it's not hard to envision a situation in which the state's authority falls apart and you're not sure who's in control of the weapons, the nuclear labs, the materials.'' 
 For Kidwai, there is something both tiresome and deeply suspicious about the constant stream of warnings out of Washington that Pakistan is the epicenter of a post-cold-war Armageddon. ''This is all overblown rhetoric,'' Kidwai told me on a rainy Saturday morning not long ago when I went to visit him in his office, which is comfortably outfitted with oversize white leather chairs and models of the Pakistani missiles that can deliver a nuclear weapon to the farthest corners of India. Even if the country's leadership were to be incapacitated, he insisted, Pakistan's protections are so strong that the arsenal could never slip from the hands of the country's National Command Authority, a mix of hardened generals (including Kidwai) and newly elected politicians. Kidwai has spent the past five years making the same case to American officials: just because a savvy metallurgist named Abdul Qadeer Khan, a national hero for his role in turning Pakistan into a nuclear-weapons power, managed to smuggle nuclear secrets and materials to the likes of Iran, North Korea and Libya for profit in the 1980s and 1990s, it doesn't mean that such a horrendous breach of security could happen again.
 ''Please grant to Pakistan that if we can make nuclear weapons and the delivery systems,'' Kidwai said, gesturing to the models and a photo of Pakistan's first nuclear test, a decade ago, ''we can also make them safe. Our security systems are foolproof.''
 ''FOOLPROOF'' IS MOST likely not the word Barack Obama would use to describe the status of Pakistan's nuclear safety following the briefings he has been receiving since Nov. 6, which is when J. Michael McConnell, the director of national intelligence, showed up in Chicago to give the president-elect his first full presidential daily brief. For obvious reasons, neither Obama nor McConnell will talk about the contents of those highly classified briefings. But interviews over the past year with senior intelligence officials and with nuclear experts in Washington and South Asia and at the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna provide strong indications of what Obama has probably heard. 
 By now Obama has almost surely been briefed about an alarming stream of intelligence that began circulating early last year to the top tier of George W. Bush's national-security leadership in Washington. The highly restricted reports described how foreign-trained Pakistani scientists, including some suspected of harboring sympathy for radical Islamic causes, were returning to Pakistan to seek jobs within the country's nuclear infrastructure -- presumably trying to burrow in among the 2,000 or so people who have what Kidwai calls ''critical knowledge'' of the Pakistani nuclear infrastructure. 
 ''I have two worries,'' one of the most senior officials in the Bush administration, who had read all of the intelligence with care, told me one day last spring. One is what happens ''when they move the weapons,'' he said, explaining that the United States feared that some groups could try to provoke a confrontation between Pakistan and India in the hope that the Pakistani military would transport tactical nuclear weapons closer to the front lines, where they would be more vulnerable to seizure. Indeed, when the deadly terror attacks occurred in Mumbai in late November, officials told me they feared that one of the attackers' motives might have been to trigger exactly that series of events.
 ''And the second,'' the official said, choosing his words carefully, ''is what I believe are steadfast efforts of different extremist groups to infiltrate the labs and put sleepers and so on in there.'' As Obama's team of nuclear experts have discovered in their recent briefings, it is Pakistan's laboratories -- one of which still bears A. Q. Khan's name -- that still pose the greatest worries for American intelligence officials. It is relatively easy to teach Kidwai's security personnel how to lock down warheads and store them separately from trigger devices and missiles -- training that the United States has conducted, largely in secret, at a cost of almost $100 million. It is a lot harder for the Americans to keep track of nuclear material being produced inside laboratories, where it is easier for the Pakistanis to underreport how much nuclear material has been produced, how much is in storage or how much might be ''stuck in the pipes'' during the laborious enrichment process. And it is nearly impossible to stop engineers from walking out the door with the knowledge of how to produce fuel, which Khan provided to Iran, and bomb designs. 
 After more than four years, no one in Washington has a clear sense of whether the small, covert American program to help Pakistan secure its weapons and laboratories is actually working. Kidwai has been happy to take the cash and send in progress reports, but auditors from Washington have been rebuffed whenever they have asked to see how, exactly, the money was being spent. Kidwai, when pressed, says that the Americans shouldn't offer lectures about nuclear security, not after the U.S. Air Force lost track of some of its own weapons in 2007 for 36 hours, flying them around unguarded to air bases and leaving them by the side of the tarmac. He makes use of another argument as well, a legacy of the Bush era that will last for many years: how can an intelligence apparatus in the United States that got Iraq's nuclear progress so wrong in 2003 be so certain today that Pakistan's arsenal is at risk? 
 Pakistani officials are understandably suspicious that the real intent of the American program is to gather the information needed to snatch, or neutralize, the country's arsenal. So they have met most requests with the same answer they gave the C.I.A. when it wanted to interview Khan: Don't waste your time submitting a formal request. ''It is a matter of national sovereignty,'' Kidwai says, ''and a matter of our honor.'' 
 Khalid Kidwai is only a few years younger than Pakistan itself, and he has spent much of his life trying to create pockets of order in a nation to which order does not come naturally. His father, Jalil Ahmed Kidwai, was one of the country's best-known authors and critics; his mother founded a school in Karachi. Kidwai was born into an era in which the overriding question on the minds of most Muslims in Pakistan was whether the country could withstand India's onslaughts, and it did not take long for the young Khalid to settle on his dream: to fly with the Pakistani Air Force, the most romantic branch of the armed forces in a new nation that believed it needed to be able to strike deep into India if it was to survive. At age 12, he passed the exam for the air-force-sponsored school in Sargodha, the site of the country's largest air base, but when he graduated, Kidwai received the disheartening news that he would never become a pilot: a mild eye disorder disqualified him. ''My next obvious choice was the army,'' he told me, and like many in his generation of military men in Pakistan, he never fully left it, even after his retirement, or lost the professional pride and the security blanket it provides.
 In 1971, Kidwai was captured during a war with India and held as a prisoner of war for two years in the north Indian city of Allahabad -- an experience he is still reluctant to discuss. After returning to the Pakistani officer corps, he was posted in 1979 to the artillery training school at Fort Sill, Okla., as part of a program that allowed the American military to get to know a rising generation of Pakistani officers. Kidwai recalls that whenever the fort's brass turned to nuclear-weapons training, they found something else for the foreign officers to do. ''We'd be sent off for trips to Washington or someplace,'' Kidwai recalled with a laugh, ''so that we were out of earshot.'' 
 In 1998, Pakistan responded to a round of Indian nuclear tests by exploding its own bombs. Like the rest of the country, Kidwai watched on television as the Chagai hills shook from Pakistan's underground tests. His nation had done more than answer India's challenge; it had built the ultimate deterrent. Along the way, Pakistan had overcome a series of halfhearted efforts, led by the United States, to cut off its nuclear supplies. Year after year, Pakistan lied to Washington when confronted with all-but-definitive evidence that it was constructing a weapon. Pakistan simply endured the resulting economic sanctions. It all seemed worth it, Pakistani officials have told me, after India detonated five test bombs and Pakistan came back with six.
 ''That was one-upmanship,'' Kidwai said, smiling proudly as we looked at a photograph of one test, which was hanging on his office wall. ''India had conducted only five.'' Below the photographs, Kidwai keeps a small fragment of the Chagai mountain under glass, displayed like a moon rock at the Smithsonian. The explosion had turned it bright white.
 NO SOONER HAD THE radioactive and diplomatic dust settled from the test site than Kidwai was called in by his army superiors, and ultimately, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, and told that he would now head an urgent project: to come up with a system to protect Pakistan's new weapon from all of its enemies -- the Indians, Western Europeans and the angry Americans. Kidwai knew speed was of the essence. Pakistan's leaders feared that if the West thought that Pakistan had just a few weapons in its inventory, and no system to assure their safety, they would come under even more pressure to roll back the program and give up the handful they had manufactured. The only way to resist that pressure, they knew, was to create a large arsenal quickly and to hide it in underground facilities where neither the Indians nor the Americans could seize or destroy the warheads. Then they needed to convince the world that Pakistan could become a responsible nuclear power, one capable of securing its weapons as well as the Russians, the Chinese or the Israelis did. That meant Kidwai had to learn the arts of nuclear safety from the Americans, but without teaching his teachers how to neutralize Pakistan's arsenal.
 Kidwai got off to a rocky start. The Pakistani nuclear program owes its very existence to the government-endorsed and government-financed subterfuges of A. Q. Khan, who then turned the country into the biggest source of nuclear-weapons proliferation in atomic history. And while Khan may be the most famous nuclear renegade in Pakistan, he is not the only one. Soon after Kidwai took office, he also faced the case of the eccentric nuclear scientist Sultan Bashiruddin Mahmood, who helped build gas centrifuges for the Pakistani nuclear program, using blueprints Khan had stolen from the Netherlands. Mahmood then moved on to the country's next huge project: designing the reactor at Khushab that was to produce the fuel Pakistan needed to move to the next level -- a plutonium bomb.
 An autodidact intellectual with grand aspirations, Mahmood was fascinated by the links between science and the Koran. He wrote a peculiar treatise arguing that when morals degrade, disaster cannot be far behind. Over time, his colleagues began to wonder if Mahmood was mentally sound. They were half amused and half horrified by his fascination with the role sunspots played in triggering the French and Russian Revolutions, World War II and assorted anticolonial uprisings. ''This guy was our ultimate nightmare,'' an American intelligence official told me in late 2001, when The New York Times first reported on Mahmood. ''He had access to the entire Pakistani program. He knew what he was doing. And he was completely out of his mind.''
 While Khan appeared to be in the nuclear-proliferation business chiefly for the money, Mahmood made it clear to friends that his interest was religious: Pakistan's bomb, he told associates, was ''the property of a whole Ummah,'' referring to the worldwide Muslim community. He wanted to share it with those who might speed ''the end of days'' and lead the way for Islam to rise as the dominant religious force in the world.
 Eventually Mahmood's religious intensity, combined with his sympathy for Islamic extremism, scared his colleagues. In 1999, just as Kidwai was beginning to examine the staff of the nuclear enterprise, Mahmood was forced to take an early retirement. At a loss for what to do, Mahmood set up a nonprofit charity, Ummah Tameer-e-Nau, which was ostensibly designed to send relief to fellow Muslims in Afghanistan. In August 2001, as the Sept. 11 plotters were making their last preparations in the United States, Mahmood and one of his colleagues at the charity met with Osama bin Laden and his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, over the course of several days in Afghanistan. There is little doubt that Mahmood talked to the two Qaeda leaders about nuclear weapons, or that Al Qaeda desperately wanted the bomb. George Tenet, the C.I.A. chief, wrote later that intelligence reports of the meeting were ''frustratingly vague.'' They included an account that there was talk of how to design a simple firing mechanism, and that a senior Qaeda leader displayed a canister that may have contained some nuclear material (though almost certainly not bomb-grade).
 In the weeks after 9/11, the tales of the meeting were enough to set off panic. Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, a longtime C.I.A. nuclear expert, was given perhaps the most daunting job at the agency in the aftermath of 9/11: to make sure that Al Qaeda did not have a weapon of mass destruction at its disposal. ''The worst nightmare we had at that time was that A. Q. Khan and Osama bin Laden were somehow working together,'' Mowatt-Larssen told me one day last winter in his basement office in a secure vault at the Energy Department, where he moved after his time at the C.I.A. to head up the department's intelligence unit. As if to drive home the point to visitors to his underground lair, Mowatt-Larssen, who is leaving the government this month to become a senior fellow at Harvard, keeps a floor-to-ceiling centrifuge in the corner of his office, where most people might put a potted plant. The gleaming silver device, which is meant to spin at terrifying speed to enrich uranium, was seized in Libya -- part of the cache that Muammar el-Qaddaffi bought from Khan. 
 Musharraf tried to tamp down American alarm. He told Tenet and Mowatt-Larssen that ''men in caves can't do this.'' He had Mahmood and his colleague rearrested, though they were never prosecuted. Pakistan did not want to risk a trial in which the country's own nuclear secrets came out. Today, Mahmood, like Khan, is back home, under tight surveillance that seems intended primarily to keep him a safe distance from reporters. 
 Kidwai insists that the Mahmood incident was overblown, raised time and again by Americans to create the image that Pakistan is a nuclear sieve. ''Nothing went anywhere,'' he assured me. ''It's over.'' But what's terrifying about Mahmood's story is not what happened around the campfire, but rather that the meetings happened at all. They took place three years after Kidwai and his team started their work and demonstrated the huge vulnerabilities in the Pakistani nuclear infrastructure at the time.
 Kidwai says he has not received any specific intelligence from the United States about ''sleeper'' scientists trying to infiltrate Pakistan's facilities. Moreover, he says, there is now also a far more effective screening process in place. When we met, Kidwai spent considerable time describing the extensive ''personal-reliability program'' that he has created to screen existing employees and applicants to the program. Kidwai's intelligence agency monitors nuclear employees' private bank accounts, foreign trips and meetings with anyone who might be considered an extremist. But Americans have their doubts. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates noted to me that ''there is no human vetting system that is entirely reliable,'' pointing out that lie detector tests and other screening techniques that C.I.A. employees regularly undergo have, at times, failed to identify spies. In Pakistan, the problem is made worse by the fact that the universities -- where the nuclear program draws its young talent -- are now more radicalized than at any time in memory, and the nuclear program itself has greatly expanded. Kidwai estimated that there are roughly 70,000 people who work in the nuclear complex in Pakistan, including 7,000 to 8,000 scientists and the 2,000 or so with ''critical knowledge.'' If even 1 percent of those employees are willing to spread Pakistan's nuclear knowledge to outsiders with a cause, Kidwai -- and the United States -- have a problem.
 JUST AS KIDWAI FEARS, every few months someone in Washington -- either at the Pentagon, or the Energy Department, or on the campus of the National Defense University -- runs a simulation of how the United States should respond if a terrorist group infiltrates the Pakistani nuclear program or manages to take over one or two of its weapons. In these exercises, everyone plays to type: the State Department urges negotiations, while the Joint Special Forces Command loads its soldiers and nuclear teams into airplanes. The results of these simulations are highly classified, for fear of tipping off the Pakistanis about what the United States knows and doesn't know about the location of the country's weapons. But most of these war games conclude in a sea of ambiguity, with the participants who are playing top officials in Islamabad and Washington unable to get a clear picture of what happened and, if something is missing, the Pakistanis unwilling to admit it. As one frequent participant in these tabletop exercises put it to me, ''Most of them don't end well.''
 The Pakistanis insist that these American fears are exaggerated and that it would be next to impossible for someone to steal all the elements of a weapon. As Kidwai paced me through PowerPoints and diagrams, his message was that Pakistan's nuclear-weapons-safety program is up to ''international standards.'' But back in Washington, military and nuclear experts told me that the bottom line is that if a real-life crisis broke out, it is unlikely that anyone would be able to assure an American president, with confidence, that he knew where all of Pakistan's weapons were -- or that none were in the hands of Islamic extremists. ''It's worse than that,'' the participant in the simulations told me. ''We can't even certify exactly how many weapons the Pakistanis have -- which makes it difficult to sound convincing that there's nothing to worry about.'' 
 Over time, it appears that the deep mutual suspicions have impeded the effort to ensure the safety of Pakistan's arsenal. One of America's key nuclear-safety technologies -- PALs, or ''permissive action links'' -- is a series of codes and hardware protections that make sure only a very small group of authorized users can arm and detonate a nuclear weapon. It is a cold-war leftover, designed to make sure some rogue sergeant in a silo didn't wing a weapon toward Moscow. But it may be more important in the second nuclear age than it was in the first. When countries that have little or no experience with nuclear weapons suddenly find themselves stacking their arsenal up in tunnels and caves, it would be nice to know that a terrorist who procured a weapon could not simply set the timer and walk away.
 PALs depend on what is essentially a switch in the firing circuit that requires the would-be user to enter a numeric code to start a timer for the weapon's arming and detonation. If the sequence of numbers entered turns out to be incorrect in a fixed number of tries, the whole system disables itself. It is pretty similar to what happens when you repeatedly type the wrong password into an A.T.M., and the machine eats your bank card. But in this case, imagine that someone trying to use your stolen card entered the wrong code one time too many, and a series of small explosions was set off to wreck the innards of the bank machine. That's what happens to an American warhead -- it is rendered useless. 
 Pakistan would clearly benefit from a PALs system of its own. But under U. S. law, Washington cannot transfer nuclear technology to the Pakistanis, even technology to make their weapons safer, because the country is a rogue nuclear state. By all accounts, the Bush administration has abided by the law. Nuclear experts like Harold M. Agnew, the former director of the Los Alamos weapons laboratory, view the restriction as ridiculous. ''Anybody who joins the club should be helped to get this,'' he told my colleague Bill Broad. ''Whether it's India or Pakistan or China or Iran, the most important thing is that you want to make sure there is no unauthorized use. You want to make sure that the guys who have their hands on the weapons can't use them without proper authorization.''
 Even if Washington had made PALs available, it's doubtful that the Pakistanis would have trusted the United States enough to accept them. Any PALs devices delivered in a FedEx box from Washington, they would have figured, would come with a secret ''kill switch'' allowing someone deep inside the bowels of the Pentagon to track or disable Pakistan's nuclear assets. They would have undoubtedly been right.
 Kidwai insists that he solved this problem by sending Pakistani engineers off to develop what you might call ''Pak-PALs,'' a domestic version of the American system. He told me that it was every bit as safe as the American version. No one will talk about what role, if any, the United States played in helping design this system. But history provides a possible guide. Back in the early 1970s, the United States sought to help France protect its own arsenal without directly divulging its own methods. American nuclear scientists began highly secretive discussions with their French counterparts that amounted to a game of 20 Questions, though in Washington-speak it was termed ''negative guidance.'' 
 IN BUSH'S LAST YEAR in office, Pakistan's downward spiral came to dominate the meetings of the principals down in the Situation Room of the White House. First came the assassination in late December 2007 of Benazir Bhutto, which resulted in a secret trip by McConnell, the intelligence chief, and the director of the C.I.A., Michael V. Hayden, to Islamabad. It was the first of a series of secret missions to convince Musharraf and his handpicked successor as the chief of the army, Gen. Ashfaq Kayani, that the militants in the tribal areas were now aiming to bring down the government in Islamabad. The message was simple and direct: The Pakistani leadership needed to forget about India and focus on the threat from within. 
 But with each successive trip it became clearer and clearer, particularly to McConnell, that the gap between how Washington viewed the threat and how the Pakistanis viewed it was as yawning as ever. Even worse, suspicions grew that Inter-Services Intelligence was directly aiding the Taliban and other jihadist militants, seeing them as a useful counterweight to India's influence in the region.
 Washington's sanguinity was not increased when Pakistan's new prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, arrived in Washington over the summer for what turned out to be a disastrous first visit. Gilani, as the country's first civilian leader in more than a decade, was under huge pressure to show he could bring the intelligence agency, and the country, under control. He couldn't -- a brief effort to force the ISI to report to the civilian leadership was quashed -- but he thought he had better show up with a gift for President Bush.
 Gilani wanted to tell Bush that he had sent forces into the tribal areas to clean out a major madrassa where hard-line ideology and intolerance were part of the daily curriculum. There were roughly 25,000 such private Islamic schools around Pakistan, though only a small number of them regularly bred young terrorists. The one he decided to target was run by the Haqqani faction of Islamic militants, one of the most powerful in the tribal areas. 
 Though Gilani never knew it, Bush was aware of this gift in advance. The National Security Agency had picked up intercepts indicating that a Pakistani unit warned the leadership of the school about what was coming before carrying out its raid. ''They must have called 1-800-HAQQANI,'' said one person who was familiar with the intercepted conversation. According to another, the account of the warning sent to the school was almost comic. ''It was something like, 'Hey, we're going to hit your place in a few days, so if anyone important is there, you might want to tell them to scram.' ''
 When the ''attack'' on the madrassa came, the Pakistani forces grabbed a few guns and hauled away a few teenagers. Sure enough, a few days later Gilani showed up in the Oval Office and conveyed the wonderful news to Bush: the great crackdown on the madrassas had begun. The officials in the room -- Bush; his national security adviser, Stephen Hadley; and others -- did not want to confront Gilani with the evidence that the school had been warned. That would have required revealing sensitive intercepts, and they judged, according to participants in the discussion, that Gilani was both incapable of keeping a secret and incapable of cracking down on his military and intelligence units. Indeed, Gilani may not even have been aware that his gift was a charade: Bush and Hadley may well have known more about the military's actions than the prime minister himself.
 WHAT OBAMA NOW inherits in Pakistan is a fully dysfunctional relationship between that country and the United States. Last summer, Bush signed secret orders allowing American special forces to run ground raids into Pakistani territory to root out not only Al Qaeda but also a list of other militants who could be targeted by either the C.I.A. or American military commandos. The first such raid, in September, provoked such a firefight and outrage in Pakistan that most other raids were suspended. But the reasons for the Pakistani government's anger went beyond the concern that Bush was publicly violating Pakistani sovereignty. If American special forces were now authorized to come into the country to snatch or kill a range of militants, several Pakistani officials said to me, would it be very long before they tried to get the country's nuclear weapons as well? 
 Though few in Washington will admit it, it is the right question. At the end of Bush's term, his aides handed over to Obama's transition team a lengthy review of policy in Afghanistan and Pakistan, concluding that in the end, the United States has far more at stake in preventing Pakistan's collapse than it does in stabilizing Afghanistan or Iraq. 
 ''Only one of those countries has a hundred nuclear weapons,'' a primary author of the report said to me. For Al Qaeda and the other Islamists, he went on to say, ''this is the home game.'' He paused, before offering up the next thought: For anyone trying to keep a nuclear weapon from going off in the United States, it's our home game, too. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 11 about the options and possible reactions of the United States if Pakistan's nuclear weapons fell into the hands of jihadists misstated part of the name of an American military unit that has run simulated responses to such an event. It is the Joint Special Operations Command, not the Joint Special Forces Command.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ALIKA COOPER) (pg.MM32 and 35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (88%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); ARMIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CITY LIFE (71%); BOOK REVIEWS (65%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (57%) PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009



399 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Debt Could Crush G.M.'s Best Efforts

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
The government's rescue package for General Motors comes with some ugly conditions attached for debt holders, union members and the company itself. Chief among these is a requirement that the automaker demonstrate a plan for achieving a positive net present value. Even with deep cost cuts, debt restructuring and union concessions, a back-of-the-envelope calculation suggests this is out of reach.
Any calculation about G.M.'s worth must start with its debt-laden balance sheet. In return for handing over up to $13.4 billion in emergency loans, the Treasury is calling for G.M. to wipe out two-thirds of its unsecured debt by swapping it for equity. Assuming lenders agree -- and this is a gargantuan task in its own right -- that would leave G.M. with $12 billion of unsecured and $6 billion in secured debt. Include the government handout and the total jumps to $31.4 billion. 
Add to that G.M.'s onerous legacy obligations. First, there are health care costs. The Motown manufacturer has done a good job reducing these in the last couple of years. But it still has to pay $10 billion in cash into the independent fund for United Automobile Workers members' benefits. And the net unfinanced health care liabilities for non-U.A.W. workers currently stands at $8 billion, though that's expected to drop as a result of cutbacks announced last summer.
Then there are G.M.'s pension benefits. For simplicity's sake, let's just concentrate on the plan for United States workers. That was fully financed at the end of 2007, but it would be astounding if last year's market turmoil in virtually every asset class did not send it into the red. Joshua Rauh, a professor at the University of Chicago, estimates G.M.'s plan may be underfinanced to the tune of $23 billion.
That may be too pessimistic, but let's assume the figure is around $10 billion. Because of some tax credits that the company has stored up for previous losses, G.M. doesn't have to cover a shortfall imminently. But add it to the rest and the sum of G.M.'s liabilities hits almost $60 billion.
What does G.M. have on the asset side of its ledger to offset these liabilities? It will have some $15 billion in cash after the government injection, though its history suggests it could burn through this swiftly. Its stake in lender GMAC might be worth, at best, its book value of $5 billion. Stakes in Asian partners look to be worth another $5 billion. Add these up and G.M.'s car unit must be worth at least $35 billion to meet the government's stipulation that it have a positive net present value.
Can it get there? Analysts estimate G.M. should have car sales of around $135 billion this year. While down from the $150 billion or so the company should have tallied last year, it may also be optimistic given the way the United States economy is contracting and consumers are pulling back.
Well-run car companies, like Renault, tend to have low profit margins -- indeed, 3 percent constitutes a decent showing in the business. It's possible that G.M. could achieve something like this, but it won't be easy given all the disruption that may result from negotiations with workers, suppliers and dealers as it rushes to meet other requirements attached to the government's loans.
Still, if one takes this relatively charitable view of G.M.'s sales and earnings power, it implies about $4 billion in operating earnings. Once taxed and put on a multiple of 10 -- which is basically an assumption that the income stream neither grows nor shrinks over time -- G.M.'s car business would be worth about $28 billion.
That's not quite enough to meet the requirement that G.M. achieve a positive net present value, despite hard concessions by all its stakeholders and a dollop of government largess. Of course, there's always the chance that pension and health care costs will be less onerous. Maybe its pension fund managers did do better than the market -- and 90 percent of the investment management industry.
And the company will no doubt unveil all sorts of other valuation metrics and optimistic projections about cash flows to show the company has positive value. But by this back-of-the-envelope calculation, even tough action may not persuade the government that G.M. is sound enough to escape bankruptcy.
ROBERT CYRAN
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An autoworker last month near the Dallas office of Republican Senator John Cornyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN CORNYN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



400 of 1125 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: For the Honda Brand, A Cinematic Stroke

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
WITH the automotive industry battling an economic downturn, is it the right time for a carmaker to introduce another installment in a corporate image campaign that carries the theme, ''The power of dreams''?
 The American Honda Motor Company believes so, bringing out this week three short films -- a k a long commercials -- to be watched online. The so-called webisodes, each about seven minutes, will be available, starting on Monday, at a Honda Web site (dreams.honda.com), under the rubric of the ''Dream the Impossible documentary series.''
 Commercials that will serve as trailers for the short films, meant to drive traffic to the Web site, are to appear on ABC.com, CBS.com, hulu.com and NBC.com. There will also be ads on sites devoted to news, technology and other topics; they include CNN.com, time.com, wired.com and yahoo.com. 
 The ''power of dreams'' campaign, which started in September 2007, and the webisodes are created by RPA, the longtime agency of American Honda Motor, in Santa Monica, Calif.
 One webisode is scheduled be shown at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival, where American Honda Motor is the automotive sponsor. Plans call for the short to run before ''Mary and Max,'' which is to be the first movie screened at the festival.
 Attendees at the festival, in Park City, Utah, from Thursday through Jan. 25, may be treated to a ride in one of 12 new Insight hybrid small hatchbacks being supplied by American Honda Motor. Another new Honda, the FCX Clarity -- a fuel-cell car the company is offering for lease in California -- is to be on display at the festival. The campaign is emblematic of efforts by consumer marketers to maintain their advertising presence despite the ravages of the recession. Honda sales in the United States fell 34.7 percent in December compared with the same month of 2007; for all of 2008 they declined 8 percent compared with the previous year.
 The Honda ads are particularly interesting because campaigns like it -- seeking to burnish a longstanding corporate image, rather than sell products in the short run -- are often the first casualties when consumers slow or stop spending.
 ''This is not a 'Go out and buy a Honda' campaign,'' acknowledged Barbara Ponce, manager for corporate advertising at American Honda Motor in Torrance, Calif., part of the Honda Motor Company of Japan. Rather, she added, it is ''communicating with our customers about what our brand stands for.''
 ''As we revisit our strategies in tough times, we have to ask the tough questions,'' Ms. Ponce said. ''In these economic times, everything becomes challenged.''
 Still, she said, ''we stayed the course'' on the campaign, which the company began considering in the spring.
 ''Consumers are going back to the basics, back to foundations, values,'' Ms. Ponce said, ''and this campaign is focused on our values as a company, the people who make up what Honda is about.''
 The webisodes, directed by Derek Cianfrance, are low-key in their promotion of Honda and are polished and absorbing enough to make a viewer (almost) forget they are sponsored shorts, and part of the trend toward branded entertainment.
 The webisodes feature employees of American Honda Motor in realms like engineering, design and safety, along with executives like Takeo Fukui, president and chief executive at Honda Motor, the parent company. Some more recognizable names also appear in the shorts, among them Danica Patrick, who races Honda cars; the actor and screenwriter Christopher Guest, who drives an FCX Clarity; and Orson Scott Card, the science fiction author.
 One webisode, ''Mobility 2088,'' imagines how people may get around eight decades from now. A speaker wonders how good an idea jetpacks would be if ''all the idiots on the road today'' filled the skies.
 A second short, ''Failure: the Secret to Success,'' describes how setbacks can sometimes lead to achievement. Examples include the problem-plagued engines that Honda supplied for race cars in 1994, which were replaced with better ones a year later, and an orange color for the Honda Civic that dealers and consumers deemed ''hideous''; the color subsequently found favor, when it was offered on the Honda Element.
 A third webisode is devoted to what is described as a Honda corporate philosophy in the think-outside-the-box vein. Speakers discuss how better ideas are generated when there is no safety net, using Japanese metaphors like ''kick out the ladder'' -- the name of the episode -- or ''take the ladder away and set fire to it.''
 One speaker offers a frank opinion of those expressions. ''Maybe it sounds better in Japanese,'' he says.
 The goal in producing the shorts was to convey some of the ''honesty and authenticity'' with which employees of American Honda Motor are imbued, said Todd Carey, vice president and associate creative director at RPA, who worked on the campaign with Curt Johnson, vice president and creative director.''I can't really speak about the economic factors'' involved in deciding to proceed with the campaign, Mr. Carey said, ''but there's an overwhelming sense of optimism that comes out of these films,'' which may connect with consumers depressed by all the news about the recession. 
 ''It's not advertising optimism,'' Mr. Carey said. ''It's authentic documentary-film optimism.''
 The Honda sponsorship of the Sundance festival was arranged with the Sundance Institute by Evan Shapiro, president of the Sundance Channel and IFC TV, part of the Rainbow Entertainment Services division of the Cablevision Systems Corporation.
 ''Honda and the automotive business are under pressure,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''The question is, how do you prepare for the other side of the recession?'' The answer is a campaign like this, he said, which ''isn't some spots disguised as shorts'' but rather entertainment that is ''content driven.'' 
 Although Ms. Ponce declined to discuss the budget for the campaign, she said the webisodes cost ''70 percent of the cost to produce a regular 30-second TV spot.'' That would mean a sum in the recession-friendly range of $200,000 to $300,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Webisodes in American Honda Motor's campaign include recognizable names like Danica Patrick, a race car driver. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FILM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); WEB SITES (75%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (73%); RECESSION (73%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (72%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); FESTIVALS (71%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (57%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%)

PERSON: DANICA PATRICK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

 
