

201 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Rights Abuses Extend Across Middle East, Even Among U.S. Security Allies, Report Says

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Dire abuses of political and social rights that fueled popular uprisings in the Arab world and a war in Libya are continuing and have in some cases worsened in countries important to American security, including Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Yemen and Pakistan, the State Department said on Friday in its annual report on human rights.
The report, mandated by Congress for the past 35 years, offered a blistering portrayal of government repression in countries across the Middle East and beyond, including those where the administration retains close security partnerships. It cited continuing restrictions of political freedoms and widespread abuses by the police and security forces against those viewed as dissenters, underscoring the administration's sometimes awkward balance between idealism and pragmatism in foreign relations. 
''Societies flourish when they address human rights problems instead of suppressing them,'' Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said as she announced this year's report at the State Department.
''Freedom from fear makes economies grow as citizens invest, innovate and participate,'' she said. ''Where human rights matter, children grow up with the precious belief that they matter, too, that they should be able to live in dignity and shape their own destinies.''
Although it focuses on events of 2010, the report said its observations were ''now framed by the dramatic changes sweeping across countries in the Middle East in 2011,'' from the successful uprisings against autocratic leaders in Tunisia and Egypt to the continuing political violence in Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and Syria.
In the case of Bahrain, a close ally and home to the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet, it cited the Bahraini government's move last September to take over a prominent advocacy group, the Bahrain Human Rights Society, and the arrests a month later of more than 200 Shiites. Those were among a series of repressive measures that led to popular protests that the government violently crushed last month, with the help of troops from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
Those troops remain in the country, amid a broad campaign of arrests, intimidation and violence against protesters, journalists and others.
''There are a range of very real issues that need to be addressed,'' Michael H. Posner, the assistant secretary of state for the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, said of the demands of protesters in Bahrain, mostly Shiites who have long bristled under the rule of Bahrain's Sunni king, Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa. ''They're not going to be addressed only by security measures.''
In contrast with Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, however, the Obama administration has not called for a change of government in Bahrain.
The report highlighted a rise in extrajudicial killings, torture and rape by security forces in Pakistan, whose relations with the United States have been deeply strained in recent months. Mrs. Clinton also cited the country as an example of a ''disturbing trend'' worldwide in violence against racial, ethnic and religious minority groups.
''In Pakistan, for example, blasphemy remains a crime punishable by death,'' she said. ''And the blasphemy law has been enforced against Muslims who do not share the beliefs of other Muslims, and also against non-Muslims, who worship differently.''
The report is an exhaustive yearly exercise in cataloging rights abuses in 194 countries, and includes both friends and foes of the United States government. It includes more than two million words and, if printed, more than 7,000 pages.
Mrs. Clinton said that the United States was ''particularly concerned'' by what she called ''growing trends'' in restricting civic organizations and blocking access to the Internet. More than 40 countries now restrict online access to varying degrees, while more than 90 countries have laws controlling organizations, according to the report.
''Some censored Web sites for political reasons,'' she said. ''And in a number of countries, democracy and human rights activists and independent bloggers found their e-mails hacked or their computers infected with spyware that reported back on their every keystroke. Digital activists have been tortured so they would reveal their passwords and implicate their colleagues.''
Mrs. Clinton also singled out several countries that have long been at odds with the United States over human rights and other matters, including Cuba, Venezuela, Iran, Russia and Myanmar. Her most forceful remarks, though, focused on China, a striking departure from her previous statements and one that reflected what she called ''negative trends'' that had worsened in recent weeks. She strongly criticized dozens of arbitrary arrests, including the detention last Sunday of the artist Ai Weiwei.
''Such detention is contrary to the rule of law,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TORTURE (78%); NAVIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHRAIN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); EGYPT (92%); TUNISIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



202 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Shake-Up Could Affect Tone of U.S. Policy on China

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With tensions rising over China's crackdown on dissent, the Obama administration is about to lose three of its most prominent players on China policy -- a shake-up that could reinforce its efforts to cultivate other Asian countries to counterbalance an increasingly assertive Beijing.
Jeffrey A. Bader, President Obama's top China adviser, is leaving the White House, senior officials said on Friday. James B. Steinberg, a deputy secretary of state who focused heavily on China, has announced plans to take a job in academia, while the American ambassador to China, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., will step down at the end of April to explore a bid for the Republican presidential nomination. 
Taken together, the departures could alter the tone of the administration's approach to China, one of its most vital but difficult relationships. Mr. Bader will be replaced at the National Security Council by his deputy, Daniel R. Russel, a Japan expert. Mr. Steinberg's exit raises the profile of Kurt M. Campbell, the assistant secretary for East Asian affairs, who has also worked intensively on Japan.
While both Mr. Russel and Mr. Campbell have traveled to Beijing regularly in the last two years, their Japan pedigrees serve as a reminder to China that the United States has other old friends in the region. Since Mr. Obama took office, the United States has worked to shore up alliances with Japan and South Korea and to deepen ties with Indonesia, Vietnam and other neighbors that worry about China's regional ambitions.
White House officials played down any message in the changes, noting that China policy is coordinated by the national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, and that Mr. Obama has met the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, eight times -- an unusual amount of contact that demonstrates the importance that the administration attaches to China.
''We're going to have challenges going forward,'' Mr. Donilon said of China in an interview on Thursday. ''But we work from a better base, and more important, we work from a stronger base in the region.''
Among those challenges is China's recent detention of dozens of lawyers, journalists, artists and human-rights advocates, which American officials said appeared to be aimed at preventing the Arab world's uprisings from spreading to China. The State Department cited the arrests in its annual human-rights report, issued Friday, and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton bluntly criticized China.
On Wednesday, Ambassador Huntsman used a farewell speech in China to deliver a rebuke of Chinese authorities for detaining Ai Weiwei, a Beijing artist, as he was trying to board a flight to Hong Kong on Sunday. Mr. Huntsman also said China had wrongly jailed an American geologist, Xue Feng, who was accused of stealing state secrets while researching the Chinese oil industry.
Mr. Huntsman has been in an awkward spot, still serving as Mr. Obama's emissary even though there were indications that he might challenge him for the presidency in 2012. But administration officials said his remarks faithfully echoed the administration's criticism.
Mr. Huntsman's successor will be Gary Locke, the former governor of Washington, who is now commerce secretary. A senior official predicted that Mr. Locke would be warmly received in China because of his status as one of the highest-ranking Chinese-Americans in the government, as well as his record in Washington State, where he worked on trade ties with China for local exporters like Boeing.
Trade friction between Beijing and Washington has eased in recent weeks, with the upswing in the American economy and a modest rise in the value of China's currency. In February, the Treasury Department declined again, in a twice-yearly report, to cite China for manipulating its currency, though it said the currency, the renminbi, remained ''substantially undervalued'' compared to the dollar.
The White House pointed to signs of improvement, including China's decision not to veto a United Nations resolution authorizing military action in Libya, as well as its support for sanctions against Iran. Chinese officials are toning down maritime claims in the South China Sea, an issue that flared last year when Mrs. Clinton said the United States wanted to help resolve disputes between China and its neighbors.
After a fraught period between the two countries over disputes like climate change and North Korea, Mr. Hu had a smooth state visit in January. It had been exhaustively planned by Mr. Donilon and Mr. Bader, who traveled to Beijing last fall with Mr. Obama's former top economic adviser, Lawrence H. Summers. It was a trip that cemented Mr. Donilon as the key administration figure on China.
Mr. Donilon has kept up his contacts with Chinese officials, but he is not a China hand by background or education.
With Mr. Bader's departure for the Brookings Institution, the administration is losing a Chinese-speaking official whose involvement with China goes back to the normalization of relations in 1979. He also came up with the idea of appointing Mr. Huntsman, then the governor of Utah, who had been a Mormon missionary in Taiwan.
Mr. Bader's replacement, Mr. Russel, speaks Japanese and was consul general in Osaka, Japan, from 2005 to 2008. Noting that he worked at the United Nations and in Europe, Mr. Russel said that an official's focus could not be extrapolated from his background ''because their focus is what the president's focus is.''
For all his history with China, Mr. Bader was the architect of a policy that has stressed tightening ties with all the countries around it. He said Mr. Russel's regional focus made him the right choice to carry that forward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ARRESTS (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (60%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HU JINTAO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



203 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: What to Do About Invasive Species

 BODY:
To the Editor:
For a minute, I thought ''Mother Nature's Melting Pot,'' by Hugh Raffles (Op-Ed, April 3), was a bit of a satire -- perhaps a modern adaptation of Swift's ''Modest Proposal.'' After all, Mr. Raffles compares the anti-immigration fervor to the attempts to stop invasive, ''alien'' species from colonizing native habitats in the United States.
But as I read, I got the sinking feeling that Mr. Raffles was serious. He argues that human diversity is good, and the iconic ''melting pot'' has made the United States what it is today. But would he be as positive about welcoming species into the United States that eat humans? Or that kill us through disease? Because that's what harmful invasive species often do to native species. 
Our society does welcome many non-native species, like ornamental plants and shrubs, soybeans and house cats. What we try to stop (or once they are here, control or eradicate) are the few non-native species that turn out to be invasive, or harmful to humans and the habitats we rely on.
Biology doesn't say that one species is bad and another is good. But people value some things above others, including our own survival and prosperity. Call me people-ist, but I prefer native species that don't hurt me or kill me. So no more harmful invasive species, please!
ANDY BUCHSBAUM Director, Great Lakes Office National Wildlife Federation Ann Arbor, Mich., April 4, 2011
To the Editor:
Hugh Raffles is right that some non-native species are beneficial but wrong to lump them collectively as a good thing.
Cornell researchers, for example, have estimated the annual economic damages and control costs for invasive plant and animal species in the United States at $120 billion and noted that 42 percent of endangered or threatened species are at risk primarily because of invasives.
Mr. Raffles extols contributions to diversity from non-native introductions. In fact, invasive species like cheat grass can devastate diversity by displacing native species over huge areas.
Efforts to curb non-native species focus on those that cause harm and give others a pass. Federal programs are guided by Executive Order 13112, which defines an invasive species as ''an alien species whose introduction does or is likely to cause economic or environmental harm or harm to human health.''
In other words, drawing from the writer's comparison to human immigration, let's at least make sure they all have a visa.
WILLIAM Y. BROWN Washington, April 3, 2011
The writer was science adviser to the interior secretary during the Clinton administration and wrote the 1999 executive order on invasive species.
To the Editor:
The invasive species that Hugh Raffles celebrates constitute a meltdown, not a ''melting pot.'' The fact that some alien species produce benefits is hardly a reason to welcome the many that bring harm.
Mr. Raffles is incorrect that the ''ever-shifting diversity'' of human immigrants that keeps this country ''dynamic and strong'' applies ''just as meaningfully to our nation's non-native plants and animals.'' We could hardly tell farmers that non-native weeds make their fields ''dynamic and strong.''
Thousands of species of introduced plants, animals and microbes have caused devastating societal, environmental and economic damage to this country's agricultural, industrial and recreational resources, diverting billions of taxpayer dollars annually to deal with their impacts.
While zebra mussels have increased water clarity, they have also profoundly damaged ecosystems, including smothering threatened native mussels and probably contributing to the increase in avian botulism that has killed thousands of aquatic birds. The beauty to some of ice plant does not balance the fact that it forms vast single-species carpets where a diverse native flora once existed and also stabilized bluffs.
The goal is to decrease the number of invading non-native species, lest this ecological roulette lead to further economic disasters. None of these concerns, in the minds of environmentalists, conservationists and scientists with whom we work, is linked in any way to the intentional human immigration that continues to increase the vitality of this country.
JAMES T. CARLTON DAVID M. LODGE DANIEL SIMBERLOFF DONALD R. STRONG Mystic, Conn., April 3, 2011
The writers are professors at, respectively, Williams College, University of Notre Dame, University of Tennessee and University of California, Davis. Mr. Carlton is the founding editor of the journal Biological Invasions, and Mr. Simberloff is editor in chief.
To the Editor:
I was disappointed by Hugh Raffles's assertion that if invasive species are pretty or useful in the short term, we ought to let them be. Though cultural assumptions do inform our response to invasive species, so does research into their impacts and economic considerations.
Some invasive species cause little damage to ecosystems, or enhance them. Some can overrun whole habitats, or inflict significant costs on human activities. When deciding how to invest limited resources into reclamation, usually only the worst offenders can be targeted.
Arguing that cultural norms are imperfect so we should let Mother Nature take care of things in ''her melting pot'' is rife with cultural assumptions and woefully irresponsible.
To me, as an anthropologist and environmental scientist, it smacks of the very qualities Mr. Raffles is arguing against.
MICHELLE BENNETT Johnson City, N.Y., April 3, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICAH LIDBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BIOLOGY (76%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%); ANIMALS (76%); ZOOLOGY (72%); SCIENCE POLICY (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (71%); CATS (71%); DAMAGES (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



204 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Community Pushes for University of Houston-Victoria to Join A&M System

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
In January, the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching elevated the University of Houston to its top tier of research universities. But, in the ensuing celebration for this hard-to-achieve accolade, some are feeling left out.
An influential band of the 62,500 or so residents of Victoria, home of the University of Houston-Victoria -- a smaller, more rural member of the University of Houston System, about 130 miles from the main campus -- is leading a movement to part ways with the parent system.
State Representative Geanie Morrison, Republican of Victoria, filed a bill earlier this session to move the university under the Texas A&M University System, based in College Station. Supporters of the unusual proposal to become Texas A&M University-Victoria argue that more important than the name is the shift into a system that is more in line with the community's values.
The proposal has set off debate in the community between residents who, sensing an approaching boom of first-generation students from the Rio Grande Valley and nearby cities, are eager to invest in a new residential campus and others who worry that the broader implications of such a move are being overlooked. 
''We need to partner with a system that has other institutions similar to ours and is helping them thrive and grow, and Texas A&M has definitely done that,'' Ms. Morrison said.
By most measures, business is booming at the University of Houston-Victoria. Until recently it had been an upper-division- only institution, but it welcomed its first class of freshmen (218) and sophomores (101) to campus in the fall. Already, more than 480 freshmen have been accepted for the next fall term. The downward expansion coupled with an enthusiastic embrace of online course offerings has increased the school's enrollment by more than 64 percent in the last five years, to more than 4,000 students.
Many civic leaders, craving the economic development they believe could come with a full-fledged ''destination'' university, would like to see that growth continue. They say that they doubt that the University of Houston System, focused on the rapid growth of its flagship school, is of a similar mind.
''To say that our visions don't match as to how we should progress is a total understatement,'' said Victoria Mayor Will Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong believes the Texas A&M System, which already has several small rural campuses, might be a better fit. He referred to the switch as ''the absolute No. 1 highest priority that we've ever had that I can remember.''
Don Smith, the interim president of U.H. Victoria, said the push was coming from the community, not from the campus. Because of state laws prohibiting government employees from lobbying on specific legislation, the systems are also publicly quiet on the issue. What they are allowed to say, however, betrays little eagerness for the switch.
''We are not seeking to persuade or entice members of other university systems to join the Texas A&M University System,'' said Jason Cook, a spokesman for the A&M System, which recently acquired two new campuses in San Antonio and Killeen.
The University of Houston System issued a statement on behalf of Renu Khator, the chancellor, and Carroll Ray, the board of regents chairman. ''As U.H. Victoria transitions into a four-year 'destination' university of choice that offers quality, accredited face-to-face and online programs to students in the Gulf Coast region and beyond, we believe the U.H. System remains the best partner for U.H.V. and its students,'' it said.
Dennis Patillo, a Victoria businessman who chaired the destination campus subcommittee on a recent education commission set up by Ms. Morrison and who fully supports the switch, said that the U.H. system's position on the university's expansion into freshman and sophomore education was ''ambivalent at best.''
Last year, a wealthy resident offered to donate 100 acres, with an option on 200 more, in order to build a more attractive residential campus for U.H. Victoria. Adding injury to the insult of a perceived lack of support, the system turned it down.
In their statement, however, the system's leaders contended, ''We remain firmly committed to a destination university in Victoria.''
Complicating any switch for either system are the elements of U.H.V. that are not confined to the campus in Victoria. The university has a major stake in University of Houston System centers in Sugar Land as well as in the Cinco Ranch neighborhood in Katy. Additionally, the system currently provides the computer servers and technological support for all of the university's online degrees.
State Senator Glenn Hegar, Republican of Katy, said the issue was much more complicated than a simple swap because Sugar Land and Katy are not as eager to part ways with the system. ''People keep asking why they wouldn't want to leave,'' Mr. Hegar said. ''Well, why would they? Nobody asked them. It's hard to get married if you haven't been asked.''
Still, if the House passes the legislation and sends it to the Senate, he said he would work to make sure each community gets what it needs -- which may mean splitting up the campuses, a move that could endanger degree offerings administered by U.H. Victoria at the system centers. ''I am more than willing to help Victoria accomplish what they want,'' he said. ''If they want to leave the system, I will create a mechanism to make sure they can do that.''
While many residents in Victoria support the move, not all are eager to change. Gabriel Soliz, the lone city councilman to vocally oppose the switch, has expressed concern that the timing is off. With the state facing a huge budget shortfall, it is not the right time to make costly transitions. ''People say we're just going to switch out the flags, but it's a whole lot more complicated than that,'' he said.
Matt Ocker, a local businessman, said he is not impressed by the plan's endorsement by local business organizations like the Victoria Economic Development Corporation. ''It's a small group of people that are mostly unelected that decided they are the voice of Victoria, and what they want, they're going to get,'' he said.
With only seven weeks remaining in this Legislative session, the bill has yet to receive a hearing. Ms. Morrison said that with the House's budget debate concluded, she was refocused on the effort. Mr. Armstrong, Victoria's mayor, said that if it does not pass this session, there will be another chance in two years. And in the meantime, he's willing to give the University of Houston system a second chance.
''I am completely and totally open to a new mutual understanding on the vision,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Victoria Mayor Will Armstrong in front of an aerial photo of the city, supports U.H.V.'s switch to the Texas A&M System. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDDIE SEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DISTANCE LEARNING (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (94%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



205 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EXECUTIVE PAY: A SPECIAL REPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1798 words

HEADLINE: The Drought Is Over (At Least for C.E.O.'s)

BYLINE: By DANIEL COSTELLO

 BODY:
HAPPY days are back -- in the corner office, at least.
After shrinking during the 2008-9 recession, paychecks for top American executives are growing again -- in many cases, significantly so.
Rarely has the view from the corner office seemed so at odds with the view from the street corner. At a time when millions of Americans are trying to hang on to homes and millions more are trying to hang on to jobs, the chief executives of major corporations like 3M, General Electric and Cisco Systems are making as much today as they were before the recession hit. Indeed, some are making even more.
The disparity is especially stark as companies are swimming in cash. In the fourth quarter, profits at American businesses were up an astounding 29.2 percent, the fastest growth in more than 60 years. Collectively, American corporations logged profits at an annual rate of $1.678 trillion.
So far, this recovery has not trickled down. After two relatively lean years, C.E.O.'s in finance, technology, energy and beyond are pulling down multimillion-dollar paychecks. What many of these executives aren't doing, however, is hiring. Unemployment, although down from its peak, stood at 8.8 percent in March. And few economists predict the jobless rate will drop substantially anytime soon. 
For the average C.E.O., however, the good times have returned. The median pay for top executives at 200 major companies was $9.6 million last year. That was a 12 percent increase over 2009, according to a study conducted for The New York Times by Equilar, a compensation consulting firm based in Redwood City, Calif.
Many if not most of the corporations run by these executives are doing better than they were in the downturn. Many businesses were hit so hard by the recession that even small improvements in sales and profits look good by comparison. But C.E.O. pay is also on the rise again at companies like Capital One and Goldman Sachs, which survived the economic storm with the help of all those taxpayer-financed bailouts.
Against such a backdrop, it's noteworthy that recent moves to empower shareholders seem to have done little to tamp down corporate enthusiasm for paying top dollar to top executives. This is generally the season when companies hold annual meetings for their shareholders.
Under new rules included in the Dodd-Frank financial regulations, nearly all public companies must now give shareholders a say on executive pay. Analysts and corporate governance experts are wondering how these votes will play out, even though companies are under no obligation to heed their shareholders' advice.
''What's funny about pay is that when the market is going up, it covers a lot of sins,'' said David F. Larcker, director of the corporate governance research program at the Stanford Business School. It is when the market ''is going sideways or down that funny things happen,'' he said: ''Considering some of the current pay packages, shareholders want to see strong results.''
On this year's list, the highest-paid C.E.O. was Philippe P. Dauman of Viacom, who made $84.5 million in just nine months. (Viacom changed its fiscal year-end to September from December.)
Viacom has said that the compensation was inflated by one-time stock awards linked to a long-term contract signed last year.
Also at the top was Ray R. Irani, the C.E.O. of Occidental Petroleum, who took home $76.1 million last year, up 142 percent from the previous one. Last year, the board awarded Mr. Irani a $33 million cash bonus plus $40.3 million in stock awards, more than double what he received in 2009.
Mr. Irani is retiring this year, and Occidental has said that it has set higher hurdles that will significantly reduce executive pay packages.
Lawrence J. Ellison of Oracle, the software giant, followed close behind, with a $70.1 million payout, though that is down 17 percent from 2009. Still, Mr. Ellison's fortunes are just fine: he had more than $26.3 billion in stock and other holdings in Oracle in 2010.
UNLIKE some previous years, 2010 registered broad gains in executive pay, benefiting C.E.O.'s from nearly all parts of the economy.
Many consumer products companies also offered rich pay packages, including one for John F. Lundgren, chief executive of Stanley Black & Decker, whose pay rose 253 percent, to $32.57 million, after a huge stock award. His counterpart at Emerson Electric, David N. Farr, saw his pay rise 233 percent, to $22.9 million, also because he was granted millions in stock.
Most executive compensation plans consist of stock options that ballooned as markets recovered after the financial crisis. Although executives typically have to wait several years before cashing in new options, the booming stock market still meant that those options were a bonanza for many chiefs, said Bruce H. Goldfarb, president and C.E.O. of Okapi Partners, a proxy solicitation and investor response firm.
The chief executive of Ford Motor, Alan R. Mulally, made $26.5 million in total pay, up 48 percent over the previous year as a result of big stock option awards. Ford was the only one of Detroit's Big Three automakers that did not receive a government bailout, and its stock value rose 68 percent last year.
New government regulations put in place after the financial crisis have emboldened some activist shareholders to try again to rein in compensation they deem excessive and undeserved. Although companies will not be bound by such votes, they will have to disclose the results in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as how they considered the voting in setting subsequent executive pay.
Still, it remains to be seen whether these changes have any teeth. For ''say on pay'' votes, there is no standard for what percentage of shareholder votes constitutes an endorsement or a rebuttal of policies. Even the prospect of the public votes, though, appears to have altered the relationship between investors and corporate executives on many discussions in recent months.
''I've been in two client meetings a week for the past four months to help determine this year's compensation plans,'' said Ira T. Kay, a managing partner at Pay Governance, a compensation consulting firm in New York. ''While companies are making many tactical decisions about what to pay executives, it's all being done in the context of trying to make sure they get a favorable vote on say on pay.''
There are some early signs that shareholders are pushing back and demanding to be heard on what they deem as excessive pay packages.
Just weeks into this proxy season, a majority of voting shareholders at four companies have handed rebukes to management over pay plans: Hewlett-Packard, Beazer Homes USA, the Jacobs Engineering Group and Shuffle Master, a maker of casino equipment.
By comparison, in the entire proxy season last year, just three companies -- KeyCorp, Occidental Petroleum and the former Motorola (now split into two companies) -- received majority negative votes on corporate pay packages.
Shareholder frustration was probably most evident in recent weeks in the unusually bitter public spat at Hewlett-Packard. H.P.'s board has already been heavily criticized for its handling of the ouster last year of its former chief, Mark V. Hurd, after an H.P. investigation uncovered business conduct violations related to a personal relationship with a contractor.
Two of the most powerful shareholder advisory groups issued highly critical public reports recommending that investors this year vote against H.P.'s executive pay plans and current board members, saying that the company highly overpaid its executives.
In a report in early March, one advisory firm, Glass, Lewis & Company, gave H.P. a grade of D on a scale of A to F. It said H.P. paid its executives more than the median of 33 other similar-size companies and faulted the board for the $35 million severance payout to Mr. Hurd, now a president of Oracle.
In a second report, the proxy advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services criticized H.P. for what it called its generous executive compensation that ''rewards executives even if the company performs poorly.''
H.P. rejected the criticism in a letter to shareholders in March, saying the recommendations were flawed. But at a packed annual meeting in an Arlington, Va., hotel late last month, a majority of shareholders voted against approving the robust executive pay packages.
The company said the compensation plans were under review.
''While we are disappointed with the outcome of the advisory shareholder vote, H.P. intends to carefully consider our shareholders' perspectives regarding executive compensation matters and will take those views under advisement when making future decisions relating to executive compensation,'' the company said in a statement.
True power for shareholders may come when executives who perform badly or whose companies are accused of fraud are required to forfeit their multimillion-dollar payouts.
Regulators forced just such a concession with the chief executive of Beazer Homes, Ian J. McCarthy. Though he was not charged personally, in a settlement with the S.E.C. last month, Mr. McCarthy agreed to return $6.5 million in compensation that he had received while the company was accused of filing inaccurate financial statements in 2006. Beazer restated its results for that year and resolved the S.E.C.'s claims in 2008 without paying penalties or admitting any wrongdoing.
Such clawbacks have rarely been used, but were a main feature of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which was passed after extensive frauds at Enron and WorldCom. In late March, investors in Beazer Homes also filed a lawsuit against directors of the company, accusing the board of improperly increasing pay for executives in 2010 despite the company's $34 million net loss that year. The losses were blamed on poor sales of existing homes and little demand for new ones. Beazer said it would not comment on pending litigation.
CAROL BOWIE, director of research at Institutional Shareholder Services, said that while executive compensation would probably keep rising and outstrip wage increases in the economy, pay packages could be entering a new era of investor scrutiny.
With ''say on pay'' voting, investors are ''in a moment when the rubber meets the road,'' Ms. Bowie said. ''They have a tool -- maybe it's a blunt one -- but it can help them express their frustration and ensure the buck stops with them.''
Correction: April 17, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 10 about rising pay for chief executives misstated the title of an expert, Bruce H. Goldfarb. He is president and C.E.O. of Okapi Partners, a proxy solicitation and investor response firm. He is not a compensation consultant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In just nine months, Philippe Dauman of Viacom was paid $84.5 million, more than any other C.E.O. made all year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL/REUTERS)
 Ford rewarded Alan R. Mulally well for the company's performance in 2010. His $26.5 million in total pay was 48 percent more than he made in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (84%); BAILOUTS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

COMPANY: 3M CO (71%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (71%); MMM (NYSE) (71%); MMM (FRA) (71%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (71%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (71%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (71%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: PHILIPPE P DAUMAN (55%); ALAN MULALLY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



206 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: An 18-Month Budget Offers a Way Out

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, the managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column for the Tribune.
The only reason the budget looks like a precision instrument or a true mathematical document is because it's full of numbers.
The numbers are full of assumptions, pulled out of some very smart ears, but pulled out of ears just the same.
There's a widely held belief around the Capitol that lawmakers balanced a troublesome budget in 2003 with a convenient underestimation of how many people would be in line to receive the many social services to which they were legally entitled. 
Two years later, the 2005 Legislature came back with a ''supplemental appropriations'' bill to cover the difference between that low estimate and what was actually needed. Lawmakers were rescued, in part, by an economy that bounced back after the first budget was written and before it was time to actually spend the money on those services.
It's easy to be cynical about that sort of thing, but it worked. And it's the basis, sort of, for the idea of writing an 18-month budget for the next two years. Representative Trey Martinez Fischer, Democrat of San Antonio, put that forward last weekend during the debate over the House budget, arguing that the economy might well improve during the next year and that the deep cuts in the House plan might not be necessary after all.
His amendment -- which failed 98 to 49 -- would have cut general revenue spending in half in 2013. (That includes money from state taxes and fees and leaves out federal and other sources.) That would have set up a crisis of sorts -- no government after March 1, 2013, without legislative action. But it would also have put lawmakers in position to write the last six months of the two-year budget based on 2013 economic conditions instead of 2011 predictions about those conditions.
One might argue that this is already the way things work, only without anyone actually admitting it. The day before the House began the budget debate, it approved a supplemental appropriations bill designed to fill a $4.3 billion hole in the current budget. That included some cuts, some found money (the comptroller added in $300 million because of improving sales tax collections) and $3.1 billion from the state's Rainy Day Fund.
That deficit, by definition, is the difference between what the state planned to spend on government and the amount of money available. When they finished writing the current budget in 2009, it all balanced. Eighteen months later, it was $4.3 billion out of whack.
So what's wrong with knocking it out of whack on purpose? The budgeteers expect enough revenue over the next two years to easily cover 18 months of spending. The House's budget -- the standard of austerity for the moment -- is 12.3 percent below current spending. It doesn't include any of the $6.3 billion or so still collecting interest in the Rainy Day Fund, so there's money out there if things get worse over the next two years. If that adjustment were made just for Medicaid, it would put about $4.7 billion in play. The state currently spends $779 million per month in general revenue on that program.
Assuming that maintaining the current level of services is the goal, and it's not for everyone, then short-sheeting the budget is one way to balance it, and gives lawmakers time to react to the results in the 2013 session. That can be done explicitly, telling voters and everyone else what's going on, or implicitly, by just lowering forecasts of program costs to fit revenue now and coming back later to make it all better. The Rainy Day Fund might be safe after all, if the economy improves by early 2013.
Another way to balance the budget is to put together a list of programs that can be resurrected as money becomes available. Lawmakers did that in the 1990s, telling then-Comptroller John Sharp to bring programs back to life if the money became available. It worked, but the budget writers didn't get the credit -- Mr. Sharp did. They've been using supplemental spending ever since.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Trey Martinez Fischer 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



207 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS WESTCHESTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: A Classic Theater Is Renovated and Reimagined

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LUTZ

 BODY:
SIBBY HARRISON and Joan McCartney are, at age 82, among the older and wiser habitues of the landmark Picture House in Pelham. So it was with a special knowingness that they lamented the state in which they had, on their most recent visits, found the theater: the sticky floors, the shaky seats, the roof worn so thin that a hard rain drowned out on-screen dialogue.
''We would hope it was a sunny day,'' Ms. Harrison said. 
But as they stood amid a crush of politicians, theater employees and assorted cinephiles outside the theater on the morning of March 25, the women's lament yielded to good cheer. After six months of major restorative work, the Picture House was about to reopen, its painstakingly refurbished interior ready to welcome moviegoers as it had since 1921.
During the renovation, the theater's earliest days had come alive. Workers uncovered a silent-era screen behind the main screen, a pit under the stage and an arched ceiling in the lobby. Unexpectedly, after removing layers of red fabric draped over the auditorium's walls, they found a set of windows -- a feature, at odds with modern movie-theater design, that underlined the structure's historic value.
To preserve these findings, the architect, Raymond Beeler, altered his designs on the fly. With construction at its peak, he shuttled between his Pelham office and the theater several times a day, making sure that workers handled the discoveries properly as they installed acoustic tiles, repaired the roof, laid new carpet and replaced the seats. The windows, for example, were painted over to block outside light, but not removed.
Those seats were routinely all occupied in the 1930s, Ms. Harrison and Ms. McCartney said. For 15 cents apiece -- no small change for a couple of young girls -- some 400 neighbors and friends would spend a Saturday afternoon enjoying features, cartoons, newsreels and serials complete with cliffhangers.
After World War II, the scene changed. Competition from television and multiplexes grew, as did redevelopment pressures. Around the start of the 21st century, the theater, having devolved into a cheap-ticket mainstream-movie house, faced the possibility of demolition. But that prospect spurred local residents to band together, form a nonprofit corporation and, in 2005, buy the building, intending to turn it into an art house. A year later, they hired an executive director, Jennifer Christman, to carry out that mission.
Ms. Christman kept the theater operating with standard commercial fare while raising money for the restoration and, she said, ''peppering in'' events that attracted stars like George Clooney, Sean Penn and Michael Douglas, who promoted their smaller films. The theater also drew emerging filmmakers like Sophie Barthes, who recently said she had been impressed with the ''engaged'' audience and their questions about her ''Cold Souls,'' a quirky comedy starring Paul Giamatti. Such visits helped spur memberships, more than 450 of which have been sold in recent months.
The project's proponents had originally envisioned a $16 million center with three screens and classrooms, an operation similar in scale to the Jacob Burns Film Center in Pleasantville. But as the economy turned down, they scaled back their plans, finishing the interior renovation and converting offices into a separate area that will probably be used as a classroom and screening space -- all for $1 million. The Picture House remains one of the region's few functioning single-screen movie theaters of its vintage.
Ms. Christman said she was seeking approvals to add a screen and classroom space on land behind the theater on Wolfs Lane, but no work is imminent. Representative Nita M. Lowey, who had earlier secured a crucial $200,000 grant for the Picture House, reflected the comments of other elected officials when she said that financing for all kinds of projects had become more difficult to obtain. Given the economic climate, Ms. Christman said, she was happy for now to shift the focus from construction to programming.
In the coming months, film previews, classics, family movies and public conversations with high-profile artists will return. Series featuring women on film, documentaries and cinema from emerging markets will make their debuts, as will classes in acting, directing and screenwriting. And commercial first-run films will be purged from the schedule -- completing a transformation in programming that Ms. Christman said went hand-in-hand with the building's restoration.
''It's a both-and,'' she said. ''You can't really have one without the other.''
Coming Attractions
Films at the Picture House over the next few weeks are an eclectic mix: ''Cold Weather'' is a comic mystery from the indie auteur Aaron Katz; ''Barney's Version'' is an adaptation of Mordecai Richler's novel; ''Poetry'' is the story of an older woman who finds strength in the literary form; and ''Certified Copy'' is an idiosyncratic romance for which Juliette Binoche won best actress honors at the Cannes Film Festival.
The Picture House's series presentations include the following:
SUNDAY ESSENTIALS, which showcases classics released from 1930 to 1980, returns on April 17 at 11:30 a.m. with ''The Sting,'' the 1973 Academy Award winning buddy film starring Paul Newman and Robert Redford.
TOPDOCS, a new series offering festival-tested documentaries and public discussions, will present ''Circo,'' which explores the tribulations of a Mexican circus family, on April 17 at 7:30 p.m. The director Aaron Schock will be on hand to answer questions about the film, which was released last year and selected as the best documentary at the Hamptons Film Festival.
FAMILY FLICKS, another new series, will feature ''Charlotte's Web'' (1973), an animated musical adapted from E. B. White's children's book about a pig saved from slaughter by a spider, on April 23 at 11:30 a.m.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SCREEN GEM: The Picture House in Pelham has been renovated and returned to its 1921 roots. Ben Model, above, one of America's leading accompanists of silent films, was at the organ on opening night. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); FILM (89%); HISTORY (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); THEATER (57%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



208 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2894 words

HEADLINE: Driving on a Distant Shore

BYLINE: By ETHAN TODRAS-WHITEHILL. 
ETHAN TODRAS-WHITEHILL is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.

 BODY:
ALONG the shores of the Indian Ocean, as the coastline east of Adelaide, Australia, wends its rocky way toward Melbourne, lies one of the world's classic drives: the Great Ocean Road. Here, brutal, slicing surf and weather pound malleable limestone and sandstone, eating away at the Australian continent, and leaving mile after mile of sweeping vistas of sculptured cliffs, towers and arches framed against the roiling turquoise sea.
I first traveled the Great Ocean Road in 2002, and I still remember beams of sunlight cutting through the clouds to illuminate 150-foot stone pillars jutting out of the sea, the last stalwarts of land in its eternal losing battle with the ocean. As my wedding approached last fall, that indelible image was enough to convince me that the drive would be the perfect way to begin a two-month honeymoon through Australia and New Zealand; we'd camp on the beach, take surfing lessons, hike alongside kangaroos and koalas and luxuriate in a landscape so blissful and majestic that we'd be in full honeymoon mode by the time we reached Melbourne. 
Unfortunately, the weather had other ideas. The rains began as soon as we touched down in Adelaide -- heavy, gray, unyielding. Clearly, my wife, Jen, and I wouldn't be able to coast through these four days on seashells, sunshine and warm ocean breezes; we'd have to dig deeper to answer a question that has plagued countless travelers before us: How do you enjoy a road trip when it won't stop raining?
No matter what the weather, in a country as vast as Australia, an epic road trip is a traveler's rite of passage, if only to get a sense of the scope of the place. The Great Ocean Road can be done as part of a 400-mile loop out of Melbourne, but we had opted for the 600-mile coastal route from Adelaide to Melbourne -- Australia's two closest major cities, despite being as far apart as Boston and Washington. It would take longer, crossing from the state of South Australia to Victoria, but at least we wouldn't be backtracking.
We flew into Adelaide, grabbed our rental car and headed out of town, wipers running full tilt. The first day we had planned to see the Coorong, a national park that is a vast estuary and home to cormorants, spoonbills, black swans and other water birds. The weather, however, made bird-watching seem like a little slice of insanity for which we just didn't have the appetite. We did get a hint of what we might have seen had the skies been more in our favor, though: at one point as the road veered close to the beach, we spooked a squadron of pelicans that took off and flew parallel to us at a pace that perfectly matched our own, undulating in a sine wave at a fixed point in our vision, as the sea and sand fell away.
That night we stayed in the charming seaside town Robe, where houses spilled down the hillside right up to the ocean. Our inn, the Caledonian, dated to 1859 and was partly made of timbers and doors from ships that had been wrecked along the coast. The cold and wet had penetrated Jen's spirit, and she wanted to pass the night reading in our small antique bed. I went for a look downstairs and saw the bartender light a fire in the pub's stone fireplace as locals began streaming in -- it was Friday night, after all. I dragged Jen downstairs, and we were soon passed around from group to group, old and young, everyone seeming to know everyone else.
Jen told and retold the story of our wedding, while I spent nearly an hour with a local contractor discussing the finer points of barbecuing, our shared national obsession. Every few minutes the bartender would come around calling out numbers for a raffle, with prizes like bottles of wine and, absurdly, a plate of raw meat. Later I realized that if we had spent a full day spotting birds, we might have never bothered with the pub at all and missed out on a night that was, unexpectedly, one of the highlights of our trip.
The contest between the pockmarked limestone coast and the surf wouldn't pick up until we crossed into Victoria -- when we'd start to see the stacks and gorges that are the casualties of that battle -- so we decided to detour inland to visit the famous Coonawarra wine region. The defining feature of the Coonawarra, we soon learned, is its terra rossa, soil that forms as the soluble limestone weathers, leaving mineral-rich red clay with excellent drainage. But this soil extends less than eight miles along a ridge barely more than a mile wide, leaving a scant nine square miles of prime vine-growing land. If your typical wine country is a sprawling suburb of vineyards and lazy roads, then the Coonawarra, with its grid of tightly packed vines and cellar doors, feels like Vineyard City.
Whatever charm was lost in the rain and the layout, however, was more than made up for in the wines themselves. Australian wine has blown up internationally in the last several years, mainly because of its big, fruity shirazes that develop in the warm, sunny climate. The Coonawarra, on the other hand, one of Australia's southernmost winemaking regions, has a cooler, more protracted growing season and is renowned for its complex, drier cabernet sauvignon.
Rymill is a welcoming estate with bronze statues of rearing horses out front and mixing labs and fermentation tanks inside. After a crowd of Europeans filtered out, Jen got into a bubbly conversation with the Aussie working behind the counter who suggested we try a wine made from grapes affected by mold -- Botrytis cinerea, to be exact, the ''noble rot'' that concentrates the grapes' sugars to create delicious dessert wines. This one smelled and tasted like an apricot-almond danish.
Normally when someone gives tasting notes on a wine, I try not to roll my eyes. But in the Coonawarra, the smells of the cabernets were so distinct and shocking I couldn't help but blurt out my own pronouncements. Violet, I proclaimed after one. Coconut and tobacco, after another. Eucalyptus! ''I can't tell if each winery is better than the last,'' Jen enthused, ''or if I'm just getting more tipsy!''
That evening, on our way to our hotel in Port Fairy, we stopped in the nearby town of Portland for the tail end of the Upwelling Festival. While a young indie rock band played, I chatted with a balding, friendly ambulance technician assigned to the event who explained that the festival, with events like the blessing of the fleet, was in honor of the annual bloom of plankton that attracts whales, which in turn attract tourists. The idea, he intimated, was to extend the tourist season on the front side and therefore bolster the local economy. Looking around at the pockets of local kids scattered about the lawn and no real outsiders to speak of besides ourselves, it didn't appear to be working.
The next day -- the day we were to drive the Great Ocean Road itself -- dawned stormier than the last, but here I applied a lesson I had learned from previous travels: nothing compensates for bad weather like a sense of history. After all, a landscape is like a work of art: it is so much more compelling when you understand the stories it shaped and those that shaped it.
The Great Ocean Road itself is merely a small portion of the coast, the 151 miles between Torquay and Warrnambool built between 1919 and 1932 by soldiers who had returned from World War I, and dedicated to those who did not make it back. But it has an older name, too: the Shipwreck Coast.
It makes sense that a dramatic ocean landscape would be a killing ground for ships. Sailors are understandably wary of belligerent seas that rip pieces off the headland the way a lion rips flesh off its prey, not to mention the changeable weather, the fog and the rock outcrops that can gut a ship like a fish. And yet, it was precisely this route that most ships from Europe took, carrying convicts, colonists and gold prospectors to Melbourne in its mid-1800s heyday. We learned all about it at Flagstaff Hill Maritime Village in Warrnambool, at the western end of the Road.
Flagstaff Hill has a replica village from the 1870s that, during the summer tourist season, includes volunteers in period costumes a la Colonial Williamsburg. Jen sat down for a cuppa in the period tearoom while I wandered around the ship chandlery and customs house and listened to a group of local men sing standbys like the ''Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald'' under the awning of the clockmaker's shop. In the museum, a dim, downward-spiraling corridor took us past plaques explaining 19th-century seagoing life, focusing on the experience of immigrants. (It should be noted that, although Australians are popularly depicted as the descendants of convicts, south Australia never accepted prisoners; Victoria's growth was largely a result of immigrants from countries like Ireland and China lured to the area by the promise of gold.)
In a central circular room was an exhibit devoted to the Loch Ard, the best-known of the region's wrecks, and to its only two survivors, Eva and Tom. The Loch Ard was a clipper that left England in March 1878, carrying 37 passengers, including 18-year-old Eva Carmichael, a well-born Irishwoman, and Tom Pearce, the cabin boy, also 18. In dense fog, the ship hit a reef and sank within 15 minutes. Eva clung to a spar for several hours and was ready to give up when her cries were heard by Tom, who had just come ashore himself but went back out to rescue her. The two sought refuge in a cave overnight before Tom climbed the cliffs and brought help.
But the real story, as the plaques made clear, was the attention that followed. Tom and Eva became the darlings of the Victorian newspapers and public, who desperately wanted Eva to fall in love with the now heroic and adulated Tom, perhaps reflecting the aspirations of a populace that had escaped the class-bound confines of England for a less rigid new world. But Eva, who had just lost her entire family, was in no mood to gratify them, instead sailing back to Ireland three months later to live with her remaining family. She and Tom never spoke again.
Tourists in the 21st century tend to fall in love with ''harsh'' and ''unyielding'' landscapes like the Shipwreck Coast, but in ages past when technology had yet to tame the elements, those same stark rocks and surf connoted not romance, but hardship, suffering and, in the case of Eva Carmichael, tragedy.
It was time to see that landscape for ourselves. From the western terminus, the Great Ocean Road, a windy, two-lane highway, began as what appeared to be a flat, grassy plain. Soon, the water came into view, and we realized that we were not on a plain but a headland, separated from the beach by steep cliffs with walls grooved like wet sand after you've run your fingers through it. The most noteworthy features of the drive are spaced out along this end, a few hundred feet to a few miles apart. Unfortunately, because of the instability of the cliffs, visitor exploration is mostly restricted to the paths, giving the sites a zoolike atmosphere as travelers gawk and snap photos from behind railings.
The wind and rain, we discovered, only enhanced the scene. In the sunnier weather of my previous visit, the landscape was merely pretty; now, it demanded respect. At the Grotto, an ocean-carved hole in the cliffs, we stood in our rain jackets and watched from above as waves sent plumes of water 40 feet high, making the saltwater-faded plaque's explanation of the cave's formation rather fatuous. At London Arch, formerly London Bridge, visitors used to be able to walk to the end of the headland across two sea-sculptured arches that somewhat resembled England's famous span over the Thames. Then one day in 1990 the first arch suddenly collapsed, leaving two befuddled tourists stranded but unharmed on what was now an island.
At the Twelve Apostles, the iconic limestone towers that had so burned themselves into my memory, I felt that something was missing. The stacks seemed farther away than I remembered, a perception that I initially chalked up to the different light until I learned that in 2005 the Apostle nearest the overlook had collapsed. Standing out there alone on the viewing platform, Jen already back in the car, the earth-shaping forces of wind, rain and sea spray whipping against me, I felt a visceral awareness of geological time -- rarely does one experience a landscape so alive, so fluid.
And yet, because of our earlier visit to the museum, the highlight of the drive was Loch Ard Gorge, where Tom and Eva washed up. At Muttonbird Island, we saw the reef where Tom and Eva's ship foundered. With the mammoth press of water and the rocky spikes and blades alternately revealed and submerged with each heaving breath of the ocean, it's a wonder that even the two of them survived.
The gorge itself is perhaps the least spectacular marked spot along the road, but it was one of the few places where we could get onto the beach and explore the cave that sheltered the never-would-be lovers. It was also where we got a sudden glimpse of sunshine, golden rays sneaking out to give the gorge a touch of contrast and color. Staring up at the bulbous stalactites, black and red and white from mineral deposits and lichen, everywhere around me illuminated by the late afternoon light, I could almost imagine what it felt like to be shipwrecked on the other end of the world.
After checking into our small Greek-themed guesthouse in Apollo Bay -- the hub for visitors headed to nearby Otway National Park or surf spots like Bell's Beach -- we high-tailed it into town, afraid that, although it was only 8 p.m., we had missed our chance at dinner. The night before in Port Fairy, arriving at a similar time, we had had to walk around for an hour before we could find a restaurant. In Apollo Bay, however, we soon found a table at the Great Ocean Road Deli -- which, despite its name, is actually an upscale restaurant -- and feasted on tiger prawns in garlic cream sauce and ''scotch fillet,'' or rib-eye, rare, and discussed our plans for the following day. We had a score to settle with the local marsupials, as we'd failed to see even one until we drove into Apollo Bay the night before and spotted a black wallaby. Our plan was to go back for more.
What we ended up finding, however, was a veritable parade of the normally solitary koalas. In a respite from the rain, we discovered that the treetops along the road to the Cape Otway Lighthouse were filled with them -- they almost outnumbered the tourists who had pulled off beside the gum trees to marvel at them. The koalas were yawning. They were eating. They were carrying their babies around and calling out to one another. It was like a koala block party.
Earlier that morning, which had dawned as gray as the last three, Jen, getting twitchy, started looking through activities in the Apollo Bay tourist office -- horseback riding, sailing, mountain biking. Yes, it was wet out there, she said, but it was drizzling, not pouring. Weather like this wouldn't keep us inside on a multiday hike, so why now? I felt beaten down by the rain, but Jen wouldn't be denied, and so, after our encounter with the koalas, we joined a guide and another couple on the beach, donned wet suits and headed out in kayaks into the gentle water of the Bay and the rough breakers beyond.
The guide made repeated passes by the hundred or so seals lounging on the rocks, smacking the water with his paddle and inviting them to play. Eventually they flowed in as a wave of whiskers and blubber, ducking under our boats to surf the breakers, for no apparent reason other than their own enjoyment. But if this trip had taught me anything, it's that landscapes are better engaged than observed. So we angled our own boat toward shore, paddled through the steely water and pitched ourselves, too, into the unrelenting wave.
Just a Hop Down the Road
Three of the best towns to stay in along the drive from Adelaide to Melbourne are Robe, Port Fairy and Apollo Bay.
In Robe, the Caledonian Inn (61-8-8768-2029; caledonian.net.au) may not be the most comfortable hotel around, but with its history it's probably the most interesting. Doubles are from 85 to 110 Australian dollars (almost the same in U.S. dollars).
In Port Fairy, Daisies by the Sea (61-3-5568-2355; port-fairy.com/daisiesbythesea) is a bed-and-breakfast on the beach that, if the weather is nice, is worth its higher cost. Doubles are 160 dollars.
And in Apollo Bay, Angela's Guest House (61-3-5237-7085; angelasguesthouse.com.au) is clean, well run and reasonably priced. Doubles start at 100 dollars.
In Warrnambool on the western edge of the road, the Flagstaff Hill Maritime Village ( (61-3-5559-4600; flagstaffhill.com) provides a good overview of the region's history that can give the landscape context. It is open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily; admission is 16 dollars.
Apollo Bay is a great base for exploring the forests of Otway National Park. Apollo Bay Surf and Kayak (61-405-495-909; apollobaysurfkayak.com.au) gives surfing lessons and also runs sea kayaking trips out to the local seal colony for 65 dollars a person.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The cover article on April 10 about driving the Great Ocean Road along the southern coast of Australia misstated the administrative structure of South Australia. It is a state, not a province.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On the Great Ocean Road, Loch Ard Gorge is named for a ship that wrecked nearby.(TR1)
The bar at the Caledonian Hotel in Robe(TR6).
Bell's Beach is a popular surf spot along the Great Ocean Road, which runs 151 miles between Torquay, and Warrnambool.
The road was built by soldiers who had returned from World War I.
FROM LEFT: A wallaby and a truck near Port Fairy
 a koala near Apollo Bay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW QUILTY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(TR7) MAPS (TR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (89%); BIRDS (84%); SURFING (78%); WORLD WAR I (69%); NATIONAL PARKS (68%); BIRDING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA (90%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%) VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (94%); SOUTH AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) AUSTRALIA (97%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



209 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Enriching a Few At the Expense of Many

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
SOME people say it doesn't really matter how much companies pay their executives, at least as far as the shareholders are concerned. Whether investors prosper depends on the executives' management skill, not on penny-ante items like pay, this argument goes.
To this, Albert Meyer, a money manager at Bastiat Capital in Plano, Tex., responds with a resounding ''phooey.''
Executive pay is not only a sign of how a company views its duties to shareholders, Mr. Meyer says, but it is also a crucial tire to kick when making investment decisions.
''When compensation is excessive, that should be a red flag,'' Mr. Meyer says. ''Does the company exist for the benefit of shareholders or insiders?'' 
As investors scan corporate proxy statements this spring and prepare to vote in annual elections for company directors, executive pay is again moving to center stage. After a few years in the wilderness, top executives are getting hefty raises, according to Equilar, a compensation analysis firm in Redwood City, Calif. But while outrage over executive pay has been eclipsed in recent years by anger over the causes and consequences of the financial crisis, compensation issues still resonate among many investors.
Of course, pay is just one item that Mr. Meyer takes into account when analyzing companies. In his search for shares he can own ''forever,'' he also hunts for companies with high-quality earnings -- that is, those that don't depend on accounting tricks -- as well as generous cash flows and management integrity. Companies he avoids include those that award oodles of stock or options to their executives. Such grants vastly dilute the earnings left over for a company's owners: its shareholders.
''Stock-based compensation plans are often nothing more than legalized front-running, insider trading and stock-watering all wrapped up in one package,'' Mr. Meyer says.
A former professor of accounting, he earned recognition when he identified a Ponzi scheme in Philadelphia that had scammed nonprofits out of hundreds of millions of dollars. It was called the Foundation for New Era Philanthropy, and it went bankrupt in 1995. As an equity analyst, he has identified aggressive accounting at Tyco, Enron and other companies over the years.
At Bastiat Capital, a money management firm he founded in 2006, Mr. Meyer oversees $25 million in private clients' capital. About $8 million of that is invested in the Mirzam Capital Appreciationmutual fund, which he manages. It is up an annualized 4.5 percent, after expenses, since its inception in August 2007. It is up 4.57 percent this year.
His interest in executive pay has led Mr. Meyer to a raft of international companies whose pay and other corporate governance practices are, in his view, more respectful of shareholders than those of similar companies in the United States. He cites as good stewards Statoil, the Norwegian energy company; Telefonica, the Spanish telecommunications concern; CPFL Energia, a Brazilian electricity distributor; and Southern Copper of Phoenix, a mining company with operations in Peru and Mexico. These and other companies he favors have performed well, while paying relatively modest amounts to executives, he says.
Mr. Meyer's favorite pay-and-performance comparison pits Statoil against ExxonMobil. Statoil, which is two-thirds owned by the Norwegian government, pays its top executives a small fraction of what ExxonMobil pays its leaders. But Statoil's share price has outperformed Exxon's since the Norwegian company went public in October 2001. Through March, its stock climbed 22.3 percent a year, on average, Mr. Meyer notes. During the same period, Exxon's shares rose an average of 11.4 percent annually, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index returned 1.67 percent, annualized.
According to regulatory filings, Statoil paid Helge Lund, its chief executive, 11.5 million Norwegian krone in 2010 (roughly $1.8 million at the exchange rate last year). There were no stock options in the mix, but Mr. Lund was required to use part of his cash pay to buy shares in the company and to hold onto them for at least three years.
By comparison, Rex W. Tillerson, the chief executive of ExxonMobil, received $21.7 million in salary, bonus and stock awards in 2009, the most recent pay figures available from the company. Mr. Tillerson's pay is more than double the combined $8.3 million that Statoil paid its nine top executives in 2010.
OTHER aspects of Statoil's governance also appeal to Mr. Meyer. Its 10-member board includes three people who represent the company's workers; management is not represented on the board. In addition, Statoil has an oversight group known as a corporate assembly, something that is required under Norwegian law for companies employing more than 200 workers. This 18-person group oversees the company's directors and the chief executive's management and makes decisions about Statoil's operations that affect its work force. The assembly members are elected for two-year terms; shareholders elect 12 and workers elect 6.
''That second layer of corporate governance protects the shareholders and the employees,'' Mr. Meyer says. ''They are really doing it as a civic duty to oversee the actions of the directors.''
Another company whose approach to pay is commendable, Mr. Meyer says, is Telefonica. Based in Madrid, it dispenses stock options to employees but eliminates the dilution to existing shareholders by buying a call option in the amount of shares given out as compensation.
At CPFL Energia in Brazil, financial statements routinely compare the highest level of executive pay with that of the lowest-paid workers. In 2010, that ratio was 79 to 1. (Comparable multiples for United States companies range from 100 to 300, depending on the size of the company.) CPFL Energia also discloses the number of ''complaints and criticisms'' it receives each year -- whether from customers, employees or others -- and how many are resolved.
''This is an ideal for disclosure,'' Mr. Meyer says.
He also rejects the argument that sky-high pay is necessary to attract talented managers. ''Look at some of the pay at the companies my fund owns,'' he says. ''They prove that you don't have to pay nosebleed compensation to attract good people.''
FEW money managers seem to share Mr. Meyer's view that pay should be factored into investment decisions. His background as a forensic accountant made him train his eye on corporate proxy statements, where pay practices are outlined. Indeed, he says he first became interested in how executive pay affects shareholder returns during the early 1990s, when companies began issuing boatloads of stock options that they did not have to deduct as compensation costs.
The fiction that options should not be counted as a business expense finally changed in 2005, when the Financial Accounting Standards Board required that companies recognize the costs of options in their financial statements. But options had become the drug of choice for those addicted to excessive compensation, whether on the receiving end or delivering it as directors on a corporate board's compensation committee.
''Middle-class America experienced a lost decade in their retirement accounts, whereas executives enjoyed record compensation packages through the subterfuge of stock option programs,'' Mr. Meyer says.
''There has been a massive wealth transfer from middle-class America's retirement accounts to the bank accounts of the privileged few. The social consequences of this wealth transfer bear scrutiny.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (BU1)
 Albert Meyer, a money manager with a background in forensic accounting, sees high pay as a sign that companies are not putting shareholders first. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); CHARITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); CASH FLOW (69%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); EQUITY RESEARCH (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); PONZI SCHEMES (61%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



210 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 9131 words

HEADLINE: Reformed School

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER

 BODY:
On a recent morning, Ramon Gonzalez, the principal of M.S. 223, a public middle school in the South Bronx, arrived at work as usual at 7:30, stripped off his coat and suit jacket, deposited his tea and toast from a nearby diner on the cluttered conference table in his office and hustled down the hallway to the school's back door to greet arriving students. Gonzalez had a busy agenda for the day. Among other things, he needed to get to work on a proposal for the city's Department of Education to expand 223 into a high school. 
At 10, Gonzalez was finally about to sit down at his computer, when he was interrupted. A young teacher came into his office in tears, unable to figure out what was going on with an eighth grader who had just transferred to 223 from a public school in Florida, was way behind in class and had been wandering around the school's hallways between periods, looking lost. Gonzalez knew almost nothing about the girl. Like many of his students, she turned up at 223 with no more than a utility bill to prove she lived in the neighborhood. He calmed the teacher and started trying to figure out what was happening. (When he finally reached an administrator at the girl's old school days later, he discovered that she had been classified with a severe learning disability.)
Next, Gonzalez was informed that the three free books that each of his school's students was entitled to -- under a nonprofit program to promote literacy in poor communities -- had never arrived. He needed to chase them down. (As it turned out, they wound up at the wrong school.) As he was doing so, he learned that a former teacher who had physically threatened him, members of his faculty and even some students, and whom Gonzalez had spent years trying to remove from the classroom, was challenging his termination.
There was also the matter of the eye tests. For five straight days, Gonzalez had been trying to get through to someone at an organization that does free vision tests at public schools and fits children with glasses on the spot. ''I can guarantee you right now that at least 20 percent of our kids need glasses,'' he told me, after leaving yet another message on someone's voice mail to ''please, please, please call me back.'' Gonzalez, a light-skinned, baby-faced Latino, was sitting at a table in his office, his untouched tea and toast in front of him. Hanging on the bulletin board above him were the school's last three report cards from the city, straight A's, and an elaborately color-coded chart tracking all of his 486 students' test scores. ''They're in their classrooms right now, staring at blackboards with no idea what they're looking at,'' he said. ''You can have the best teachers, the best curriculum and the greatest after-school programs in the world, but if your kids can't see, what does it matter?''
Gonzalez has been principal of M.S. 223, on 145th Street near Willis Avenue, since the school's creation in September 2003. One of the first schools opened by Joel Klein, the New York City schools chancellor at the time, 223 was intended to help replace a notoriously bad junior high school that the city had decided to shut down. Thirteen percent of its first incoming class of sixth graders were at grade level in math and just 10 percent were at grade level in English. Last year, after seven years under Gonzalez, 60 percent of its students tested at or above grade level in math and 30 percent in English. Not something to brag about in most school districts, but those numbers make 223 one of the top middle schools in the South Bronx. According to its latest progress report from the Department of Education, which judges a school's growth against a peer group with similar demographics, 223 is the 10th-best middle school in the entire city.
Success stories like this in high-poverty neighborhoods are becoming more common in the era of charter schools, but 223 is no charter. There is no clamoring of parents trying to game a spot for their kids in a lottery, no screening of applicants, no visits from educators hoping to learn the secret of the school's success, no shadow philanthropist supplying Kindles to all of its students. M.S. 223 is just a regular public school. Gonzalez isn't even allowed to see the files of incoming students before they arrive. ''You know what you have to do to come to school here?'' Gonzalez told me. ''Walk through that door.''
Late last year, as I was first getting to know Gonzalez and M.S. 223, I spent some time with Klein during his final days on the job, joining him on a couple of his last school visits and talking to him about his tenure as chancellor.
Now that education reform has become an established national movement, backed by countless multimillionaires and endorsed by President Obama himself, it's easy to forget that Klein was once a lonely pioneer, if not the first chancellor to try to overhaul his schools, then surely the first to undertake such an ambitious effort to do so, and in the city with the largest -- 1.1 million students -- and most complicated school system in the country.
During our conversations, Klein, a former lawyer, cloaked his revolutionary ideology in a technocrat's rhetoric, describing how he implemented ''disruptive strategies'' designed to transform the city's schools ''from a provider-driven system to a consumer-driven one.'' What he meant was that he turned the city's school system upside down, opening hundreds of new schools and shutting down dozens of others. Individual schools were given control over their own budgets, hiring and curriculums. In exchange, they were expected to earn good grades on their report cards from the city -- another Klein innovation -- or risk closure.
Klein's successor, Cathleen Black, made it clear that she planned to continue the bold policies that he started implementing after his appointment by Mayor Bloomberg in 2002. (Black has since resigned.) While it may still be too early to evaluate Klein's legacy, some statistics certainly suggest meaningful progress. When Klein started, for instance, less than 50 percent of New York's incoming high-school freshmen were graduating in four years. That number is now 63 percent. Since 2006, the city's elementary and middle schools have seen a 22-point increase in the percentage of students at or above grade level in math (to 54 percent) and a 6-point increase in English (to 42 percent).
At the center of Klein's vision was the notion that New York should not aspire to have a great school system but a system of great schools run by talented and empowered educators. To help reach this goal, Klein created an academy to train principals in the new skills the job would require and dispatched its graduates to the city's most difficult neighborhoods with a mandate for change and the authority and autonomy to try to effect it. ''I think one of our core accomplishments is that we transformed the principal from an agent of the bureaucracy to the C.E.O. of his or her school,'' Klein told me.
I thought about this notion a lot over the course of the months I spent with Gonzalez at 223. It's an incongruous metaphor to apply to someone whose office overlooks one of the largest, most dangerous housing projects in New York. Still, Gonzalez has shown the kind of entrepreneurial thinking that, were he a C.E.O., would attract attention: he joined the board of the Randall's Island Sports Foundation in part to gain access to its playing fields, hired a part-time grant writer to raise money for the school, brought in a number of nonprofits to support the school's extracurricular activities and even rented out space in his building to underwrite 223's two-week summer-school program.
In certain respects, 223 is a monument to Klein's success: empower the right principals to run their own schools and watch them bloom. Thanks to Klein, Gonzalez has been able to avoid having teachers foisted on him on the basis of seniority. He has been able to create his own curriculums, micromanage his students' days (within the narrow confines of the teachers' union contract, anyway) and spend his annual budget of $4 million on the personnel, programs and materials he deems most likely to help his kids.
And yet even as school reform made it possible for Gonzalez to succeed, as the movement rolls inexorably forward, it also seems in many ways set up to make him fail. The grading system imposed by Klein that has bestowed three consecutive A's on Gonzalez also disqualifies him from additional state resources earmarked for failing schools. The ever-growing number of charter schools, often privately subsidized and rarely bound by union rules, that Klein unleashed on the city skims off the neighborhood's more ambitious, motivated families. And every year, as failing schools are shut down around Gonzalez, a steady stream of children with poor intellectual habits and little family support continues to arrive at 223. Gonzalez wouldn't want it any other way -- he takes pride in his school's duty to educate all comers -- but the endless flow of underperforming students drags down test scores, demoralizes teachers and makes the already daunting challenge of transforming 223 into a successful school, not just a relatively successful one, that much more difficult.
The school day at 223 begins at 7:50 a.m. This is 10 minutes before the United Federation of Teachers officially permits New York City public schools to start, which means that every year a majority of 223's teachers has to vote to approve the earlier opening bell. The early start is a way to create more time for after-school programs, especially academic tutoring, before it gets dark and the streets surrounding the school become more threatening. ''The research says it's better to start your school day later,'' Gonzalez says, referring to studies showing that adolescents often need to get more sleep in order to be at their best. ''But those researchers don't live in my neighborhood.''
M.S. 223 is in the heart of School District 7, which is part of the poorest Congressional district in the nation. More than 90 percent of its students live in one of five housing projects, most prominently the Patterson Houses, a sprawling complex of 15 towers across the street from the school. About 70 percent of its students are Hispanic, predominantly Puerto Rican and Dominican. The remainder are black, either African-American or recent immigrants from West African countries like Senegal. Roughly 11 percent of the school's students are ELLs, or English-language learners. (Another 60 to 70 percent of its students are former ELLs.) About 17 percent have learning disabilities.
Upon arrival at 223, students pass through a gantlet of smiling teachers. Gonzalez requires that faculty members stand outside their doors at the start of the school day, part of his effort to set the school off from the grim streets surrounding it. ''In our location, kids have to want to come to school,'' he says. ''This is a very sick district. Tuberculosis, AIDS, asthma rates, homeless shelters, mental-health needs -- you name the physical or social ill, and we're near the top for the city. Which means that when our kids come to school in the morning, when they come through that door, we have to welcome them.''
There's another, no less compelling reason for this policy: posting teachers outside their classrooms helps maintain order in the hallways. It's one of a number of things, like moving students' lockers into their homerooms, that Gonzalez has done to ensure that kids spend as little time as possible in the halls, where so much middle-school trouble invariably begins. (Chaotic hallways also tend to make for chaotic classrooms.)
Watching students pour into the school, some barely five feet tall, others over six feet, it can be hard to believe that all of 223's kids are within just a few years of one another. This is the nature of middle school, which straddles childhood and adolescence, an awkward period for most children and one of the many reasons that educators will tell you that middle-schoolers are unusually challenging, even in the best of circumstances.
It's hard to say definitively how successful Gonzalez has been at controlling 223's halls. During the weeks I spent at the school, I never saw anything much more serious than one kid yanking another's backpack, but the wave of students crashing noisily toward their homerooms bore little resemblance to the silent, single-file lines you see in many charter schools.
Those schools have a distinct advantage over 223, though. Their families have already chosen to be at a charter and have often jumped through numerous hoops to get there. This makes it easier for charters to create their own cultures. They can define the length of their days, dictate exactly how children dress and enforce strict codes of conduct. Those students -- scholars, in charter parlance -- who fall out of line don't last.
Much of what Gonzalez does involves creating a culture for 223 too, one that he essentially tricks children into embracing. Look closely at just about any aspect of 223, and you will invariably discover a hidden agenda. Students at 223 are required to wear white shirts and blue pants or skirts. Gonzalez would like all of his boys to dress more formally, but rather than insisting that they wear ties, the custom at many charters, he has encouraged the school's athletes to do so in the hope that the trend would spread. Most charters extend the school day until 5 p.m., an easy way to maximize their influence over students. Traditional public schools, however, are permitted to require that children be in school for only about six hours each day, so Gonzalez has had to find creative ways to keep kids in the building, for example, mandating that students attend math or English tutoring before participating in after-school sports, clubs and music programs.
Career Day was held at 223 on a Monday morning in late January. Participants, a professionally diverse crowd of about 25, mostly minorities, that included a fashion designer, a corporate lawyer and a parole officer, started assembling at around 9 o'clock in an overheated classroom. A few picked at an unappetizing buffet of cold eggs, dinner rolls and limp, greasy bacon. Most scrolled through their BlackBerrys and waited, with growing impatience, to be told where to go and what to do.
If they expected to deliver a perfunctory description of their jobs, answer a few questions and be done, Gonzalez had other plans. At about 9:15 he strode into the room and got right to the point. ''Some of these kids have never left the Bronx or even the area,'' he said, casting a stern eye around the group. ''For a lot of our kids, this is going to be a life-changing experience, and I want to make sure you see it that way. I'll be out in the hallway cheering you on, keeping that fire going, but I have to stress that this is an opportunity for them, and you don't want to lose it.'' Then he walked out.
Gonzalez, who is Cuban and Puerto Rican, has a term for encounters between his students and adults with the potential to affect them: touches. As he describes it, it was a touch that changed the course of his own life when he was in middle school. Gonzalez was raised in East Harlem by his mother, who supported seven children on welfare. A Puerto Rican stockbroker who volunteered at the Boys' Club where Gonzalez spent most of his free time took an interest in him and encouraged him to take a test to qualify for a high-school scholarship. Gonzalez aced the test and was accepted to Middlesex, a prep school outside Boston. ''I always had this weird feeling of having one foot in one world and one foot in another,'' he says. ''My financial-aid package paid for me to fly up to Boston, then I'd fly home for vacation and kids in the neighborhood would be getting shot.'' From Middlesex, he went on to Cornell.
Gonzalez's background is similar to that of many of his students, and he can personally relate to some of the obstacles that stand in the way of their academic achievement: as a boy, he would take a pillow into the bathtub and close the bathroom door, because it was the only quiet place to read in the apartment. But Gonzalez had at least one thing going for him. While his father, a veteran who returned from the Vietnam War addicted to heroin, was in and out of jail for much of Gonzalez's life and ultimately died of AIDS during his senior year at Cornell, he was self-educated and politically aware, a member of the Young Lords, the Puerto Rican equivalent of the Black Panthers. He recognized that his son was bright, and even if he wasn't a provider or a role model, he did have aspirations for his son. He wanted him to go to law school and become a neighborhood defense lawyer.
Instead, after graduating from college and moving back to his old neighborhood, Gonzalez started working as a math teacher, biding his time and building his resume until he would be considered qualified to run his own school.
The opportunity to start 223, which began with 150 students, all sixth graders, arose when he was 31. Things got off to an inauspicious start. Gonzalez initially opened the school in another building with two other South Bronx middle schools, one of which was reserved exclusively for children with special needs. Special-needs students tend to be older and bigger than others at their grade level and often have behavioral issues, a mix that proved problematic for Gonzalez's students. ''My kids were getting their butts kicked,'' he says. After one such episode led to a broken nose, he decided that he had seen enough. In a freezing rainstorm on Christmas Eve, he found himself personally ferrying 30 computers out of one building and into the empty floor of another, where 223 now resides.
Gonzalez still lives in East Harlem, a few blocks from where he grew up. Though his son, Laurencio, the oldest of three children, is in kindergarten at a private school on Manhattan's Upper East Side, Gonzalez told me that he hoped to send him and his two other children to middle school at 223. ''That's the goal, to have this school be a place where I'd want to send my own kids.''
One frigid night in December, I went with Gonzalez to watch him give a presentation at a community-education council meeting at an elementary school in the South Bronx. Gonzalez had recently introduced a literacy initiative at 223, asking all of his parents and children to drop whatever they are doing at 6 o'clock every Thursday night and spend the next two hours reading. As part of the campaign, 223 placed free-book bins in local bodegas, health clinics and Laundromats. Now Gonzalez was hoping to expand Community Reading Night into a broader, districtwide event.
Gonzalez was preceded by the school's holiday concert. The moment the performance ended, parents started heading for the door. By the time Gonzalez rose to speak, the auditorium, nearly full when we arrived, was mostly empty. He had prepared a PowerPoint presentation, but had to abandon it because there was a cord missing. ''This community is in crisis,'' he said. ''The literacy test scores that we have in our community are 23 percent. That is a scary number. What that means is that 23 percent of our kids are on pace to graduate from high school and go to college. Go to college. That doesn't mean they're going to finish college. Twenty-three percent. We cannot sustain our community on 23 percent. We have to be reading with our children. That's the only way we're going to change this scary statistic.''
Klein may see Gonzalez as a chief executive, but Gonzalez prefers to think of himself as a community activist. His vision for 223 is in some respects anachronistic in the era of school reform. Klein's animating belief, and surely what he will best be remembered for, is the notion that while low-income families may not be able to choose what neighborhood they live in, they should nonetheless be able to choose what school their children attend. It was toward that end that he brought more than 100 charter schools to New York -- with at least 100 more still on the way -- deliberately concentrating them in high-poverty areas like Harlem and the South Bronx to create competition for existing public schools. Without ever quite saying so, Klein was agitating against the very idea of the neighborhood school with deep roots in a community, which is precisely what Gonzalez is now trying to revive and reinvent.
Broadly speaking, the modus operandi of most charter schools, or at least those in impoverished neighborhoods, is to separate children from their presumably malignant environments. Gonzalez objects to this in principle. ''I don't want to be part of the history of taking talented kids out of the neighborhoods and telling them to move on,'' he says. More practically, he doesn't think it's a realistic objective, considering 223's population. ''Most of our kids are never going to leave this area just for financial reasons; they can't afford to live anywhere else, they don't have the guidance, whatever. So how do we make those places better so that their kids aren't going through the same cycle?''
Given his and Klein's conflicting agendas, it's no surprise that Gonzalez is critical of many of the policies of education reform. He has no problem with schools being held accountable for their performance, but he worries that the reform movement's infatuation with competition will undermine the broader goal of improving public education -- that by grading schools against their peers you are encouraging them to hoard their successful innovations rather than to share them. He is concerned as well about the fact that the new principals being sent, disproportionately, into disadvantaged neighborhoods have little experience with or connection to the communities they're supposed to serve. And he is made uncomfortable by all of the educational experimentation, the endless stream of pilot programs, being implemented in neighborhoods like his. ''I'm just afraid that our kids are being sacrificed while everyone is learning on the job,'' he says. ''This is not some sort of urban experiment. These are kids' lives were talking about.''
Gonzalez tries to visit classrooms at least three days a week to provide informal feedback to his less experienced instructors. On a recent morning, I joined him on his rounds, sitting in on a sixth-grade science class taught by a second-year teacher named Garrett Adler.
A common assumption inside the school-reform movement, one often repeated in the wake of America's sobering performance in the recent Program for International Student Assessment exam -- the U.S. ranked 17th in reading and 23rd in science -- is that our nation's public-school teachers tend not to be high achievers themselves. (By contrast, in Finland teachers are drawn from the top 10 percent of their college classes.) You can't get much more high-achieving than Adler, who grew up on the Upper West Side and attended Hunter College High School, one of New York's most selective public high schools, before graduating magna cum laude from Brown University.
And yet when Adler came to 223 last year through the New York City Teaching Fellows program, which helps train and place aspiring teachers in the city's public-school system, he was at best a struggling teacher. He was incapable of controlling his classroom. Students shot rubber bands at one another, fooled around with dangerous lab equipment and ignored his repeated requests to quiet down. ''I used to go into his classroom first thing in the morning scared of what I might see,'' Gonzalez told me. ''To be honest, at one point I was about ready to give him the hook.'' Instead, he devoted precious resources to teaching Adler how to teach, hiring a personal coach to attend his classes regularly and meet with him for 45 minutes a week.
There were 30 students in Adler's class, their desks divided into several clusters. The subject of the day was matter. Adler, a slight, anxious-looking 24-year-old with glasses and a beard, wore chinos and a button-down shirt and tie, per the unofficial dress code for male faculty members. (The U.F.T. contract prevents Gonzalez from formally requiring that teachers wear ties.)
After a brief introductory movie starring an animated robot, Adler taught his students the ''matter march,'' warning them in advance that it was ''incredibly dorky'' but that once they learned it, they would never forget the definition of ''matter.'' Standing in front of his class, Adler proceeded to demonstrate the march -- really more of a dance, with a spin and a clap and the words, chanted like a cheer: ''Matter is anything that takes up space and has mass!''
Adler moved swiftly through the rest of the lesson, working hard not to lose his momentum. ''Not right now,'' he said brusquely, his eyes fixed on his clipboard, to a student whose hand was raised. Over the years, Gonzalez and his staff have developed a simple, rigid plan meant to help new teachers manage their classrooms and progress through lessons without getting derailed. Each 45-minute period is divided into five sections, or waves, as they're known. Adler facilitated his transitions with chants: ''Work hard. Get smart. Woot! Woot!'' The suggestion to do that came last year from his coach. ''At first, I thought they were really cheesy; I felt like they weren't me,'' he told me later of the undignified sideshows he has come to deploy. ''Now I feel like: You know what? They can be me.''
After class, Gonzalez had some criticisms. Among other things, Adler never made it to the final wave of the lesson, known as the share, when the class gathers in a circle to review and reinforce what it learned that day. (''Circle up to talk it out, to get it, get it, get it.'') But Gonzalez was pleased. The danger now is that like many young teachers, Adler will soon move on, and all that money Gonzalez spent on his development will have been wasted. ''Every time one of my teachers leaves, that's $200,000 walking out the door,'' he told me.
During his tenure, Klein often referred to the mission of improving our nation's public schools as ''the civil rights battle of our time.'' Rhetoric like this helped the education-reform campaign blossom into a full-fledged movement. Young college graduates now go into blighted schools to teach in much the same way that an earlier generation went south to march. This has been a boon for Gonzalez. Eight of his nine original faculty members were fresh from college via Teach for America, and today 60 percent of his teachers are in their 20s. ''You really need idealists, people who are willing to do the extra work,'' he says.
But this dependence on young teachers brings its own challenges. ''First-year teachers are pretty much useless,'' Gonzalez says. ''To me, the ideal teacher is a third-year Teach for America teacher.'' The problem, at least from where Gonzalez sits, is that Teach for America requires only a two-year commitment. It entices the best applicants not only with the promise of changing lives in impoverished schools but also by presenting itself as a resume-builder for elite institutions like Harvard Business School and McKinsey & Company. ''I'm trying to build people who are going to stay, who want to work with our kids,'' Gonzalez says. ''This isn't where they're starting their careers; this is their life. We've had plenty of brilliant people here from organizations like Teach for America, and they lasted two years, because their hearts weren't in it. I can't afford that. That's hurtful to our kids.''
Much as he has done with his student body, Gonzalez has tried to create a particular culture among his faculty, relying equally on inspiration and incentive. Last year, to discourage teachers from taking advantage of a clause in the U.F.T. contract allowing them to miss 10 days of every school year, he gave everyone with a perfect attendance record a Flip video camera. (As usual, there was an ulterior motive: Gonzalez wanted them to use the cameras to record themselves in the classroom.)
A few weeks after visiting Adler's class, I stopped by his classroom at the end of the day. The place was a mess. He had just finished a lab that involved making ice cream in baggies with ice, salt, sugar, vanilla and milk. He made us a batch, spooning some into Dixie cups as we sat down to talk.
Adler said he was enjoying his job -- ''I like being the science teacher, being that figure in these kids' lives'' -- especially when he considers his friends from Brown, many of whom are still stuck in a postcollege malaise. And Gonzalez, he said, is certainly an inspiring boss. ''When he gets up and gives his little spiels about how we're here to change people's lives and how we do that every day, that's a powerful thing to hear as a teacher.''
Still, he isn't convinced that he's well suited to teaching, particularly at this level. He's not organized enough to keep students on task and, indirectly anyway, he echoed Gonzalez's concern about fundamentally not being part of the 223 community. ''I have a vocabulary that comes from always having gone to really high-level schools,'' he said. ''I feel like I'm probably talking over half the class half the time.'' This, he feels, diminishes his already tenuous authority in the classroom: ''Who am I, this 24-year-old white kid from the Upper West Side, to tell a bunch of kids from a very different background how they're supposed to behave and act?''
M.S. 223 holds its parent-association meetings on the first Saturday morning of every month. During the preceding week, parents receive a robocall reminder from the school, either in English or Spanish. Not that such calls ever make much of a difference. Parent engagement, a given at most charter schools and middle-class public schools, is an ongoing struggle at 223. Like a door-to-door salesman, Gonzalez is not ashamed to use every method at his disposal to prod participation. Each parent meeting is bookended by free raffles to encourage people to show up and to stay. Just to be safe, no one leaves empty-handed: goodie bags at the door are filled with soap, shampoo and other beauty products.
On a clear, cold Saturday in January, about a dozen parents gathered inside 223's library, an oversize classroom lined with empty metal shelves, for the first parent-association meeting of the new year. Wanda Hill, the school's parent liaison, started by raffling off a $30 gift certificate to Payless shoes. Later came a World Wrestling Entertainment clock and a set of queen-size flannel sheets from J. C. Penney. All three had been procured by Hill, who volunteers at World Vision, a Christian charity, in large part so that she can get first dibs on the corporate castoffs that the organization collects.
Sandwiched in between the raffles, in English with Spanish translation, was a presentation on gangs, as well as an update on the campaign to renovate the school's library. In closing, Hill reminded parents that anyone who made it to one of the district's monthly education meetings would be entitled to free clothes from Dress Barn, also arranged through her volunteer work at World Vision.
After the meeting, I introduced myself to the only English-speaking parent in attendance, Cheryl Thomas, the mother of a sixth grader named Terrell. Thomas told me that she moved her family to the Patterson Houses several years ago, when they had to go on public assistance after she quit her job to care for a daughter with spina bifida. Thomas said that she had decided not to enter Terrell in the lottery at a charter about 12 blocks away from 223. Because of the school's long days, he wouldn't have been heading home until close to 6, which made her nervous. She and Terrell went to an open house at 223 and liked what they saw. After he registered, Terrell returned to the school for a technology seminar run by a nonprofit; all attendees were given free computers.
On my way out of 223, I saw Hill, a cheerful, plain-spoken woman, putting away unclaimed gift bags in a supply closet. She was clearly frustrated by the school's indifferent parents. ''Even knowing that they're going to get two free bags of clothing from Dress Barn, we can't get one person -- not one person -- to come to a C.E.C.'' -- Community Education Council -- ''meeting,'' she said, shaking her head. ''At least we can say we're trying.''
In a sense, the education-reform movement is out to demonstrate that the backgrounds of students' families don't need to be changed in order to improve schools. As reformers see it, those who cite economic circumstances as an explanation for failing schools are playing into the very ''excuse-based culture'' that Klein was trying to dismantle.
Gonzalez has proved the reformers right, at least to an extent: his school is thriving without the benefit of consistently engaged, supportive parents. But as its English and math scores reveal, 223's success remains relative. It's also hard won. This should not come as a surprise. Studies dating to the 1960s have suggested that children's experiences inside the classroom are responsible for as little as 20 percent of their overall educational development. No less important is how they spend their evenings, their weekends, their vacations.
Gonzalez sees this firsthand every September, when tests show that many of his returning students have dropped a full grade level in reading over the summer. He is trying to reverse this trend by bringing parents into their children's lives at 223 in any way he can, whether it's through sporting events (one byproduct of the school's large Dominican population is a great baseball team), plays, recitals or classroom celebrations. ''We're trying to change a culture here,'' Gonzalez says. ''That's going to take time. That's going to take generations.''
Eric Lincoln, M.S. 223's assistant principal, spends the first three weeks of every school year registering about 40 unplanned-for students who have just been assigned to the school by the Department of Education. This is typically a high-needs group. It includes children from failing schools who are entitled to transfer to 223 (or any other middle school in good standing) under the No Child Left Behind statute as well as children whose families recently moved to the city or the neighborhood, often under duress.
Two weeks into the 2009-10 school year, Lincoln registered a seventh grader named Saquan Townsend. Saquan's family had been living in a project in East New York, Brooklyn, when their apartment was broken into by someone who thought that one of Saquan's half-brothers had been involved in a shooting. For safety reasons, Saquan's mother felt she needed to move her family as soon as possible, but she couldn't afford another apartment. The city placed them in a one-bedroom apartment in a homeless shelter in the South Bronx. Saquan has two older half-brothers, ages 20 and 18, and a 12-year-old brother with a learning disability caused by lead poisoning that he contracted at their old apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. For about a year, all four boys and their mother slept in the same room. Saquan's new zoned school was 223.
It didn't take Saquan long to develop a reputation as a kid who never did his homework, spoke disrespectfully to teachers and seemed unwilling to follow even the most basic instructions. He spoke in a deliberately provocative, high-pitched voice in the classroom -- some of his teachers called it ''the alien voice'' -- and raised his arms high up over his head in mock stretches to elicit laughter from classmates. Most of all, Saquan had a problem with absenteeism, missing more than 50 days over the course of the school year. ''Honestly, I thought there was some sort of mental disability or something weird going on,'' says Emily Dodd, who had Saquan for seventh-grade science last year.
One Friday, Dodd, a 25-year-old graduate of Oberlin College, asked Saquan to stay late to catch up on some assignments he missed. Working with him one on one, she quickly discovered how wrong she had been. ''I realized this kid is brilliant,'' she told me. ''He's an intellectual. His ability to think critically, to reason critically is on a very high level.''
Dodd started sending Saquan text messages every morning urging him to come to school. (''Get on the bus!!!'' she would write him when she first arrived at 223 at 7.) It took him three weeks to meet her initial challenge of making it on time a total of three days in a week. They celebrated the accomplishment with cheesecake, which Saquan had never eaten. ''Honestly, more than anything, I think he felt rewarded by being able to spend a half-hour with me on a Friday afternoon,'' Dodd says.
Having gotten the ''touch'' he needed from Dodd, Saquan's attendance and behavior gradually improved. He also began participating in some of 223's after-school programs. He was one of three students to join a new running club and was cast in a lead role in the school's production of ''West Side Story.'' Directed by Dodd, it was the first play performed in 223's building in years. (The stage curtain, having sat unused for so long, collapsed at the opening of the show.) Saquan missed a lot of the rehearsals, so many, in fact, that Dodd panicked and divided his part in two. When he was there, he was often disruptive, cracking jokes and distracting other cast members. ''But he was amazing in the performance,'' says Dodd, who recalls looking around the audience and seeing Saquan's mother in tears.
As recently as a few years ago, M.S. 223's bilingual-education program was the last place students or teachers wanted to be. Geared toward moving Spanish speakers into English-only classrooms as quickly as possible, it was known as a repository for slow learners. The perception became self-fulfilling, reinforced by the low expectations placed on students.
In an earlier era, Gonzalez would have been hard pressed to change this situation, as the school would have been required to use the city's bilingual-education curriculum. But Klein's reforms gave Gonzalez the freedom to try a different approach. In 2007, he asked a new teacher, Silvestre Arcos, to overhaul the program. Arcos mapped out a strategy to change virtually everything about bilingual education at 223, beginning with its primary aim. Rather than weaning children from their native tongues, the goal would be to develop and refine their Spanish skills as well as their English ones. Classes would be taught in both languages; the curriculum would include a course in which students hone their Spanish grammar and read Spanish literature.
The school's dual-language program, as it is known, is now the pride of 223, a magnet for strivers rather than a dumping ground for underperformers. This year, it was a finalist in a national bilingual-education competition run by the Spanish Embassy. Three hundred children applied for the 30 spots in next year's incoming sixth-grade class.
Evaluating teachers is an imperfect science, but by almost any measure Arcos is one of 223's finest. Gonzalez basically has to rig the school's Classroom of the Month award, based on academic performance, behavior and class preparedness, to prevent Arcos from winning it every time.
A stout, goateed 33-year-old, Arcos grew up in South Texas. His father, a Mexican immigrant who worked as a gas-station mechanic, was a middle-school dropout, but Arcos excelled in school, winning a full scholarship to Cornell. He spent four years at a Kipp charter school in Los Angeles before moving to New York to get his master's at Columbia. He considered teaching at a charter in New York while pursuing his degree but decided that the schedule would be too demanding to leave him time to study, so he came to 223 instead, bringing Kipp's philosophy with him. The walls of his classroom are adorned with Kipp slogans like ''All of us WILL learn'' and ''No shortcuts. No excuses.'' (Whatever ideological issues Gonzalez has with charter schools, their fingerprints are everywhere at 223, beginning with its decor: the school's hallways are lined with college pennants, a design innovation popularized by the charter movement.)
Arcos's classroom has a deceptively relaxed air. He stands casually at the front of the room, his hands stuffed in the pockets of his khakis, allowing students to banter as they figure out answers to his questions. But he works relentlessly, particularly during the early part of the school year, to create and reinforce academic expectations, discipline and accountability. At the start of classes, Arcos praises students who seat themselves quietly and take out their work without being asked. When he hands back quizzes or other assignments, he singles out students who ''met or exceeded expectations.'' Loud applause follows each name. All of his students, even the highest performers, are required to stay after school for tutoring.
I visited Arcos in his classroom one winter afternoon, the day after a huge snowstorm in New York. Even though the city's schools weren't closed, more than 50 percent of 223's students were absent. Arcos called all 12 of his 30 homeroom students who weren't there at the start of the day. Six of them came to school immediately. Arcos told me that he just received an e-mail from the United Federation of Teachers thanking its members for showing up at their jobs despite the storm. ''I was like, You've got to be kidding; you're praising people for coming to work on a day when they're supposed to?'' Arcos said. ''I thought that was ridiculous.''
As a public-school teacher, Arcos is required to be a member of the U.F.T., but he doesn't see eye to eye with the union on most issues. Among other things, he favors the public release of teacher-performance ratings, which the U.F.T. has been fighting aggressively to prevent. ''What kind of message are you sending to families and communities if you're like, We don't want those evaluations to be made public?'' he said. ''Are you basically saying your teachers are doing a terrible job?''
Arcos told me that he has been impressed by the dedication of many of his colleagues at 223. Still, he misses the uniform standards of his Kipp school. ''At Kipp, I wasn't worried that once my students left my math class and I sent them off to science or social studies or E.L.A. [English Language Arts] that they were going to fall apart, that the expectations weren't going to be there, academically, behaviorally, in terms of their intellectual habits,'' he said. ''Two years ago, when my sixth-grade math students left for seventh-grade math, they totally fell apart. After all of the hard work we did, they went from the top of the school in their math-test scores to the bottom. I took it pretty hard.'' Earlier this year, Arcos was thinking about returning to a charter school, but he recently decided to stay, swayed by his commitment to the dual-language program and his faith in Gonzalez's broader vision for the school.
Last summer, Saquan's family moved out of the shelter and into a small apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Saquan wanted to remain at 223 for eighth grade, even though that would mean getting up at 5:45 and making it to the subway by 6:15 for the one-and-a-half-hour commute to the South Bronx. If he stayed for after-school activities, he would not return home until after 6. Because his mother works nights, they would barely see each other. She would not yet be home when he had to leave for school and would be asleep when he returned.
I first met Saquan at a gathering of the Principal's Book Club. It was a Monday afternoon in December, and he was one of a dozen students arrayed around the conference table that dominates Gonzalez's office. Manuel Santos, Gonzalez's hulking executive assistant, doled out half-slices of pizza, as Gonzalez and the kids discussed ''Fallen,'' a young-adult novel about a group of fallen angels at a reform school. ''Probably the biggest critique you might have of our reading program is that we don't spend much time on the classics,'' Gonzalez says. ''I can live with that. I just want our kids to read.''
Toward that end, Gonzalez spends close to $200,000, or 5 percent, of his annual budget at Barnes and Noble on popular new books that are more likely to interest 223's students. The strategy worked with Saquan, who joined the Principal's Book Club last April, when the book of the month was ''The Hunger Games,'' which he had been wanting to read but couldn't find in his local library. He hadn't missed a meeting since then.
At 5-foot-3, Saquan is small for his grade, and his voice has not yet dropped, but his size 9 sneakers suggest a growth spurt in his near future. He is handsome, with smooth skin, a ''faded'' Afro that shoots straight up like a pencil eraser from his head, big, bright eyes and a sly smile. He poured himself a cup of orange soda and, slouching down low in his chair, said that he was annoyed by the book's main character, who obsesses endlessly over a boy without ever directly approaching him.
Several weeks later, I picked Saquan up at school and rode the subway home with him. He fiddled around with my iPhone as we talked, playing down his various activities and relationships at 223. (The play was ''kind of fun.'' Dodd was ''O.K.'') When we arrived at his building, his mom didn't invite me in -- she had left behind their furniture when they moved out of their place in East New York and still hadn't replaced it -- but suggested we get together after school the following day at an IHOP in Brooklyn.
When we met, Saquan's mom, Tonya Henry, was operating on just a few hours of sleep. A tiny woman with dreadlocks and dark circles under her eyes, she had returned home that morning from her shift answering phones at a car-service company in Queens and gone directly to a dental clinic with Saquan to get one of his teeth pulled.
Saquan gingerly chewed his pancakes, cutting off pieces of turkey sausage to share with his mother. At one point, he told his mom with obvious pride that he'd been invited to join an after-school math program at 223 that could be applied toward his high-school credits. ''You gonna do it?'' his mom asked, disinterestedly. ''Then do it.'' She went on to explain her less-than-enthusiastic response: ''I try to let him make his own decisions. Sometimes he gets upset with me. He wants me to have more input than I want to. He'll ask my opinion, and he'll say, 'Mom, why can't you just give me an answer?' I'll say: 'Listen, I don't want to say this, and I don't want to say that. You've got to make up your own mind.' ''
Saquan was one of 25 eighth graders at 223 who qualified for a prep course last summer for New York's specialized high-school test, used to determine admission to eight prestigious public high schools. (Run by Kaplan, the six-week course cost Gonzalez $8,000.) But even after the prep course, he was at a severe disadvantage. Some of 223's students who take the test have been preparing since sixth grade, attending another twice-weekly class on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons that the city offers free to poor students.
The test was given in late October, and the results were released in mid-February. For the first time in 223's history, one of its students was accepted at Bronx Science. Another got in to Brooklyn Tech. Saquan didn't score high enough to be admitted anywhere, leaving him in the regular, citywide high-school application process.
Saquan is at grade level in reading and above grade level in math, which is nothing short of remarkable given everything he has been through. Still, his transcript is hardly impressive, and the city's high schools place a great deal of weight on attendance records. What's more, without Dodd's full-time attention, Saquan's academic performance has faltered this year. At the end of February, he was failing social studies, having not completed any of his class projects, and was barely passing English. All of this might be mitigated by a proactive parent, the kind of mother or father who diligently researches the city's high schools until they find the right fit and a sympathetic principal. This is the sort of sophisticated shopper that Klein's consumer-driven system, with its emphasis on choice, would seem to depend on. But parents like this are in short supply at 223.
It's hard to disagree with the reform movement's insistence that poverty, like ignorant or apathetic parents, should not be accepted as an excuse for failing schools. But watching Saquan, it's just as hard to ignore the reality that poverty is an immutable obstacle in the path of improving public education, one that can't simply be swept aside by the rhetoric of raised expectations. Is it really a surprise that a child whose family had been forced to move into a homeless shelter where he was sharing a bedroom with his mother and three brothers was having trouble getting himself to school and was acting out in class? Is it realistic to think that demanding more of him and his teachers is all that is required?
In late February, after hearing about Saquan's poor grades, Dodd sought him out to encourage him to end the year strong. Even though he was no longer in any of her classes, she volunteered to personally tutor him to make sure he finished with only B's or better. ''Because he has never actually known what it feels like to get A's and B's, and because I know that he is capable of A's and B's, I want him to experience this before he gets to high school,'' Dodd wrote me in an e-mail in early March. ''He's totally into it and believes he can pull it off.'' By way of incentive, she was going to offer to give him and his mom tickets to a Broadway show.
Days after the meeting, though, Saquan stopped coming to school. A couple of 223's administrators called his house, as did Dodd, but they were unable to reach him or his mother. When Dodd finally managed to speak with Saquan in mid-March, he told her that he decided to transfer to his neighborhood middle school in Brooklyn.
In February, 223 received an unexpected visit from a space planner for the city. To Gonzalez, it seemed to be the equivalent of getting measured for his coffin. He figured that it could mean only one thing: a charter school was coming to his building.
Gonzalez was furious. ''You're impacting my community, and you're not even going to have a discussion with me?'' he said. It also made no sense to him. ''There are three, maybe four middle schools in our district with their heads above water,'' he told me. ''How are you not closing one of the failing schools and putting the charter there? Or better yet, you have a couple hundred more kids who need to be educated? Fine. Send them to me. I'll take them. Now I have to fight with the D.O.E., and those are the guys who are supposed to be helping me.''
Battles between incoming charter schools and reluctant public-school hosts have become a recurring motif on New York's education-reform landscape. The tension often carries over into the school year in the form of bickering over access to shared facilities like cafeterias and auditoriums.
To Gonzalez, though, the arrival of a charter would represent more than just an inconvenience. Not only would he lose the extra space that he deliberately carved out for teacher training and student guidance, but he also feared that a charter school could jeopardize his plans to expand 223 into a high school, perhaps even a boarding school. The idea, which he enlisted a class of students at New York University's Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service to help develop, is to create a nonprofit attached to the school and to purchase an abandoned building in the neighborhood that would be converted into a dormitory. It's a radical notion -- a public inner-city boarding school -- but it's also very much in keeping with Gonzalez's expansive vision for 223.
When Gonzalez first told me about the charter, I couldn't help sharing his outrage. It seemed a cruel joke, the most extreme example yet of him being punished for his success. From the city's perspective, however, Gonzalez's building doesn't belong to him or even, really, to the city. It belongs to the students. An opportunity to use it to create another potentially successful school is not one that the city can afford to miss.
Gonzalez did everything he could to have the charter placed elsewhere, arguing that, among other things, 223 had less unused space than several other middle schools in the district. (He also made it known to the D.O.E. that this article was in the works.) In late March, he received a reprieve. For at least another year, there would be no charter moving into 223's building.
The D.O.E. says that it was only considering a charter at 223 and that Gonzalez's lobbying was largely irrelevant to its final decision. Gonzalez says that his impression, from his interactions with the D.O.E., was that the charter had basically been a done deal. Either way, it was just another obstacle for Gonzalez to overcome, along with developing and retaining young teachers, engaging parents and getting free eye tests for his students.
During one of our last conversations, Gonzalez told me about a new eighth grader with a learning disability who recently turned up at 223. Already almost 16, the boy had earned the lowest possible score on both the reading and math portions of the state's standardized test. His mother had just moved to the neighborhood, and even though he was qualified to receive a host of free services connected to his disability that were not available at 223, she had heard good things about the school and waived her son's privileges so that he could attend it.
Hearing about the student and the challenges he would present, yet another hurdle in the endless row of them that make up the days at 223, made me exhausted. Gonzalez, who would have a matter of weeks to somehow get the boy ready for high school, had a completely different reaction. ''It's days like this that remind me why I get up in the morning,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 34 about Middle School 223 in the South Bronx and the reforms established by its principal, Ramon Gonzalez, misidentifies the New York University graduate school from which Mr. Gonzalez enlisted a class to help M.S. 223 develop a plan for a local boarding school. It is the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service, not the business school. The article also contains an outdated reference to Cathleen P. Black. On Thursday, after the article went to press, she resigned as schools chancellor of New York City.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM34-MM35)
THE PROGRAM: Keeping students energized at M.S. 223, even during warmups before phys ed class. (MM37)
THE TEACHERS: After investing in teachers like Emily Dodd and Garrett Adler, Gonzalez worries about losing them to other schools. (MM38
MM39)
 THE STUDENT: At fi rst thought by one teacher to have a learning disability, Saquan Townsend revealed a great intellect when challenged. (MM40) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF RIEDEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); EYE TESTING (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



211 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Republicans and Democrats Alike Claim Successes in Averting a Federal Shutdown

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Robert Pear contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The hard-fought budget compromise late Friday that narrowly averted a government shutdown calls for increasing Pentagon spending while imposing significant cuts on a wide range of domestic federal programs, including some items that are part of the new health care law.
Under the agreement to be considered by the House and Senate later this week, Pentagon spending would rise nearly $5 billion this year -- about $2 billion less than the increase initially sought by Republicans -- while nondefense programs would receive targeted cuts as well as a $1 billion across-the-board decrease that would bring net spending reductions to roughly $38 billion. 
As they assessed the deal struck Friday night, less than two hours before government agencies were to run out of money, both parties laid claim to victories in a showdown that presaged difficult spending fights to come between House Republicans and the Democratic-controlled Senate and White House.
Led by Speaker John A. Boehner, Republicans said the cuts to the current budgets of federal agencies showed that they could impose their demands to reduce spending substantially and reverse decades of government growth even though they control just one chamber of Congress.
''Instead of politicians talking about how much they wanted to increase spending, the entire debate of the last two months was about how much spending to reduce and where,'' said Representative Todd Rokita, Republican of Indiana and one of 87 Republican freshmen whose insistence on deeper cuts influenced the spending fight. ''This is progress.''
Democrats, who said they, too, recognized the need to pare spending, said they were able to limit damage to favored programs like Head Start and public broadcasting while beating back some of what they saw as flawed, ideologically driven policy provisions pushed by House conservatives, including restrictions on money for family planning and environmental regulations.
''This is an agreement to invest in our country's future while making the largest annual spending cut in our history,'' President Obama said Saturday. He said Democrats ''prevented this important debate from being overtaken by politics and unrelated disagreements on social issues.''
Details of the specific cuts, which Mr. Boehner said would amount to $500 billion over the next decade, were still emerging. The cuts include about one-third of the money provided in the new health care law to encourage the creation of insurance cooperatives, Congressional aides said. The law provided up to $6 billion for loans and grants to such nonprofit co-ops, which would compete with private insurers in offering health care to families, individuals and small businesses.
Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, had championed co-ops as an alternative to a government-run health plan favored by many liberal Democrats. However, the Congressional Budget Office said the co-ops were ''unlikely to establish a significant market presence in many areas of the country.''
Mr. Obama acknowledged that some of the cuts would be painful. Given a new spending total for the next six months, Congressional aides were to spend the weekend spreading the cuts across federal agencies and writing the fine print of legislation that is to be considered in the House around midweek, with the Senate to follow.
For Mr. Boehner, caught between the Democratic-led Senate and a House Republican caucus demanding cuts, the budget compromise showed he could navigate treacherous negotiations and produce results acceptable to his party even though his dealings with Democrats brought the federal government to the brink of a shutdown.
''I think he came out fairly well when you consider we did not win the Senate, we did not win the White House and there is a lot of impatience on the fact that we have a great majority,'' said Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican and member of the Appropriations Committee.
Not everyone was pleased with the outcome. The House voted early Saturday 348 to 70 to send Mr. Obama a stopgap measure to finance the government through Thursday while the compromise legislation is drafted. Forty-two Democrats and 28 Republicans, mainly conservatives, opposed the stopgap bill, signaling that Mr. Boehner still has some selling to do to his right flank. Mr. Obama signed the measure into law on Saturday afternoon.
In the Senate, where the interim measure was approved on a voice vote, there were objectors as well. ''It does not set us on a path to fixing the spending and debt problems our country is facing,'' said Senator Rand Paul, a Republican from Kentucky.
Some Democrats also were skeptical. Representative George Miller of California, a veteran liberal lawmaker, expressed concerns about the compromise.
''The American people have been told the agreement contains both 'historic' and 'painful' cuts. The question will be painful for whom,'' Mr. Miller said in a written statement. ''Poor and middle-class families have already received more than their fair share of pain in this economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); FAMILY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE POLICIES (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); FAMILY PLANNING (50%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN BOEHNER (56%); TODD ROKITA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



212 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Our Cowardly Congress

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
This isn't government we're watching; this is junior high.
It's unclear where the adults are, but they don't seem to be in Washington. Beyond the malice of the threat to shut down the federal government, averted only at the last minute on Friday night, it's painful how vapid the discourse is and how incompetent and cowardly our leaders have proved to be. A quick guide:
Democrats excoriated Republicans for threatening to shut down the government, but this mess is a consequence of the Democrats' own failure to ensure a full year's funding last year when they controlled both houses of Congress. 
That's when the budget should have been passed, before the fiscal year began on Oct. 1. But the Democrats were terror-stricken at the thought of approving spending bills that Republicans would criticize. So in gross dereliction of duty, the Democrats punted.
Republicans say they're trying to curb government spending and rescue the economy -- but they threatened to shut down the government, even though that would have been both expensive and damaging to our economy.
The shutdowns in late 1995 and early 1996 cost the federal government more than $1.4 billion, the Office of Management and Budget reported at the time. Much of that sum was for salaries repaid afterward for work that employees never did because they were on furlough. There were also lost fees at national parks and museums: tigers must be fed at the zoo, even if nobody is paying to see them.
It's particularly reckless and callous to threaten a shutdown when the economy is already anemic. Among the federal workers and contractors potentially losing paychecks, some would miss payments on their homes, their credit cards or their children's college tuition.
Republicans are posturing against abortion in a way that would increase the number of abortions.
Conservatives have sought to bar federal funds from going directly to Planned Parenthood and the United Nations Population Fund. The money would not go for abortions, for federal law already blocks that, and the Population Fund doesn't provide abortions. What the money would pay for is family planning.
In the United States, publicly financed family planning prevented 1.94 million unwanted pregnancies in 2006, according to the Guttmacher Institute, which studies reproductive health. The result of those averted pregnancies was 810,000 fewer abortions, the institute said.
Publicly financed contraception pays for itself, by reducing money spent through Medicaid on childbirth and child care. Guttmacher found that every $1 invested in family planning saved taxpayers $3.74.
As for international family planning, the Guttmacher Institute calculates that a 15 percent decline in spending there would mean 1.9 million more unwanted pregnancies, 800,000 more abortions and 5,000 more maternal deaths.
So when some lawmakers preen their anti-abortion feathers but take steps that would result in more abortions and more women dying in childbirth, that's not governance, that's hypocrisy.
The House Republican budget initiative, prepared by Representative Paul Ryan, would slash spending and end Medicare and Medicaid as we know them -- and it justifies all this as essential to confront soaring levels of government debt. Mr. Ryan is courageous to tackle entitlements so boldly, and he has a point: we do have a serious long-term debt problem, and Democrats haven't had the guts to deal with it seriously.
Unfortunately, the new Republican initiative would worsen government debt problems, according to the Congressional Budget Office. The C.B.O. (whose numbers Republicans regularly use to attack Democrats) estimates that with current trends, debt will reach 67 percent of gross domestic product in 2022. But it finds that under the Republican plan, because of increased tax cuts, debt would reach 70 percent of G.D.P.
In other words, the Republican position is that America faces such a desperate debt crisis that we must throw millions under the bus -- yet the result is more debt than if we do nothing.
What does all this mean? That we're governed by self-absorbed, reckless children. Further evidence comes from a new study showing that American senators devote 27 percent of their press releases to ''partisan taunts'' rather than substance. ''Partisan taunting seems to play a central role in the behavior of many senators,'' declared the study, by Justin Grimmer of Stanford and Gary King of Harvard.
A bewildered Chinese friend asked me how the world's leading democracy could be so mismanaged that it could shut down. I couldn't explain. This budget war reflects inanity, incompetence and cowardice that are sadly inexplicable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ABORTION (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); FAMILY PLANNING (86%); CONTRACEPTION (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEDICAID (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); TUITION FEES (70%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (70%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (68%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



213 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Funds Defy Housing's Gravity

BYLINE: By JACK DUFFY

 BODY:
THE housing market may be facing a prolonged dip in prices, but for real estate mutual funds the problem is very different: prices that have climbed so much that they may not be sustainable.
It may seem surprising, but while home sales have slumped and foreclosure rates have risen in recent months, real estate funds, which typically invest in commercial property and multifamily housing, have boomed.
The 251 domestic real estate funds tracked by Lipper have returned 55.7 percent over the past two years, on average, compared with 31.2 percent for diversified equity funds. According to Morningstar, real estate funds returned 6.1 percent in the first quarter, compared with a 5.1 percent average gain for all stock funds.
Real estate funds have been able to outperform the average general equity fund in part because they did so much worse in the most severe part of the downturn. During the heart of the financial crisis, some commercial real estate investments lost two-thirds of their value in less than six months. Some real estate funds ended 2008 with losses of more than 50 percent. 
''It's been a huge snapback from a drop that was way overdone,'' said Robert W. Gadsden, manager of the $112 million Alpine Realty Income and Growth fund, which returned 9.24 percent in the quarter, making it the top-performing real estate fund among those tracked by Lipper.
Real estate funds tend to concentrate their investments in real estate investment trusts, or REITs, which own office, industrial, apartment, health care and other types of income-producing properties. REITs were one of the hardest-hit sectors when the credit markets seized in the fall of 2008, as investors feared that they wouldn't be able to refinance their debt and that a wave of corporate bankruptcies would cause vacancy rates in their office properties to soar. From Sept. 30, 2008, to March 6, 2009, the MSCI United States REIT index plummeted 66 percent. Mr. Gadsden's Alpine Realty fund ended 2008 down 50.2 percent, according to Bloomberg.
''There was extraordinary fear in the market, and people did not see the positives, like the diversification in REIT portfolios as well as their long leases and long debt agreements,'' said Mr. Gadsden, whose recent top holdings have included REITs like the Simon Property Group, the mall owner, and Vornado Realty Trust, the big office landlord.
As REITs began to regain access to the credit markets, however, that fear began to dissipate, prompting a relief rally that has been supported by an almost perfect mix of market conditions, fund managers say. Those conditions have included very low interest rates, depressed property prices, lots of available capital and a lack of supply of new office and apartment space.
''We have seen occupancy rates and rental rates going up in many markets,'' said Joseph R. Betlej, co-manager of the $428 million Ivy Real Estate Securities fund. ''And that is because construction lenders turned off the spigot in 2007, and today we are faced with a lack of new supply.''
Ivy Real Estate Securities returned 5.7 percent in the first quarter after a 28 percent gain in 2010. Mr. Betlej's recent top holdings have included Simon Property; HCP, a REIT that invests in health care properties; and Equity Residential, the big United States apartment owner.
The perfect mix that allowed REITs to shine so brightly has prompted some analysts to warn, however, that they could now be overvalued and that investors who continue to pour money into real estate funds might wind up getting burned. After all, some analysts say, gains made when the Federal Reserve is making extraordinary efforts to keep interest rates near zero might be hard to replicate as the economy grows and inflation and interest rates start to rise.
Investors added $4.15 billion to real estate funds in the first quarter, according to EPFR Global, an analysis company based in Cambridge, Mass.
''I would argue that there are more risks than benefits in REITs at these prices,'' said Ryan Leggio, an analyst at Morningstar. ''If interest rates go up, they are going to be in a world of hurt.''
Rising rates make it more expensive for REITs to finance their property assets and to make acquisitions. With most of their income coming from longer-term leases, higher financing costs also can't be quickly passed on to tenants. REITs, by law, also must return 90 percent of their income to shareholders as dividends, making them attractive to yield-hungry investors. Higher interest rates would make other investments, like bonds and even bank certificates of deposit, more competitive.
The average dividend yield for REITs soared to more than 10 percent during the financial crisis, while yields of 10-year Treasury notes fell to near 2 percent. At the end of the first quarter, the dividend yield for equity REITs, which own commercial property and constitute the bulk of the market, was 3.46 percent, virtually the same as 10-year Treasuries.
Real estate fund managers acknowledge that higher interest rates could take some steam out of the commercial property market, but they say REITs will not be hurt much if any increase is modest and gradual.
''If rates are rising because of inflation, real estate has historically been viewed as an inflation hedge and a store of wealth,'' said David M. Lee, manager of the $2.9 billion T. Rowe Price Real Estate fund.
Mr. Lee, whose fund gained 6 percent in the first quarter after a gain of nearly 30 percent in 2010, said REITs could keep pace if rising rates were accompanied by stronger job growth. ''We need jobs, jobs, jobs,'' he said. ''We are dealing with a physical product that needs to be filled.''
One bright spot, he said, is likely to be apartment REITs, which are benefiting from strong rental demand as homeownership rates decline because of the foreclosure crisis. ''We perhaps made too much of an effort in the past to put people in homes they could not really afford,'' he said. ''As more people recognize that homeownership is not a sure thing, you will have more renters by choice.''
Among Mr. Lee's top holdings are two large United States apartment owners, Equity Residential and AvalonBay Communities.
MANAGERS say the most favorable environment for real estate funds -- and the REITs in which they invest -- would be an economy that improves enough to create more jobs but not enough to prompt major worries about inflation.
''If borrowing costs stay attractive while vacancy rates and credit ratings continue to improve -- that would be the ideal,'' said Mr. Gadsden of the Alpine Realty fund. ''The best thing for REITs going forward is a Goldilocks scenario of not too hot, not too cold.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Roosevelt Field Mall in Garden City, N.Y., is one of the many shopping centers of the Simon Property Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Equity Residential is a major owner of apartments. One of its towers is in the Chelsea area of Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (62%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (62%); SPG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (62%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



214 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SWEAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Off the Major Deegan, The Everyman Golf Pro

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
PAUL SLIVA, the ponytailed pro at Van Cortlandt Golf Course in the Bronx, was leaning against the clubhouse bar last week wearing rumpled rain pants, and wraparound sunglasses perched on his sun visor.
Mr. Sliva was waiting for his egg sandwich and glancing up at ''The ''Jerry Springer Show'' on the television, where two women began cursing and swinging at each other.
''Stripper fight!'' Mr. Sliva announced as the woman behind the bar, who had tattooed flames blazing out of her cleavage, made him that egg sandwich at the grill. A few others lingered at the bar -- which had a plastic Bud pitcher for tips -- at this municipal course just off the Major Deegan Expressway.
Mr. Sliva's next student arrived, a contractor from Yonkers, and they took a golf cart out to his regular teaching spot, in the left rough of the 15th hole. The route took them under the Deegan and the Mosholu Parkway. The underpasses were scrawled with graffiti, and even on the course there was the constant background thrum of traffic, and a steady stream of cars and trucks was visible. 
''This is urban golf -- at times, you forget you're in the city, but it's all around you,'' Mr. Sliva, 48, said in his gravelly New York accent as he stopped next to a muddy pond and plopped down a bucket of balls for his contractor pupil, Tom Tuffy, 45, to hit.
Between jokes and jabs and zany golf stories, he tried to get Mr. Tuffy to hold his right arm correctly, at the top of his backswing.
''Hold it like you're carrying a case of beer -- you and I have both done it,'' Mr. Sliva said, which made Mr. Tuffy grin.
Soon he was hitting it long and straight.
''Welcome home, son,'' Mr. Sliva crowed, giving Mr. Tuffy a high-five. ''How easy was that?''
Mr. Sliva's everyman personality and his no-nonsense teaching style seem tailored for the weekend warriors at Van Cortlandt, where he has been the pro for 12 years despite, he said, being offered similar jobs at local country clubs. He has no desire to conform his spicy teaching style to the niceties of the country club. He would have to call the members Mr. and Mrs., compliment sorry swings and sugarcoat his direct teaching style.
Besides, he said, public course golf and Van Cortlandt are in his blood. He grew up a few blocks away and learned golf here from his grandfather. He savors the history of the course, which has been played by famous people like Babe Ruth and the Three Stooges. A plaque above the clubhouse door gives the date 1895 and calls the course ''America's Oldest Public Golf Course.''
''It's the cross-section of people, the incredible diversity you only get in New York City,'' Mr. Sliva said.
Like most of the city's 13 public courses, Van Cortlandt has no driving range and no real practice area. Indeed, many city courses do not even have a golf pro. In the area Mr. Sliva uses near the 15th and 18th holes, a rudimentary practice green is set up for lessons. The trick is to avoid the golfers who are playing the holes.
Mr. Tuffy, an Irishman from County Sligo, plays at Van Cortlandt with a group of his countrymen from the Bronx who call themselves the Woodlawn Golf Club. He came to Mr. Sliva as a beginner two years ago and now has a respectable golf swing and can break 90.
''He explains things in a way you can understand,'' Mr. Tuffy said of Mr. Sliva, who used a hand-held ball-picker to collect the scattered practice balls. Many of them wind up in the pond or lost in the woods, but Mr. Sliva buys used golf balls by the thousands, often for a dime apiece.
''Cost of doing business,'' said Mr. Sliva, whose approach to the game suits the seat-of-the-pants public course golfer who may lack proper technique and have limited time to practice. Mr. Sliva teaches a simplified approach to the game: a primer on grip, stance and addressing the ball, and other rudiments.
He ridicules elaborate swing theories, instead teaching a compact motion that can be repeated almost reflexively.
He advocates mental toughness, and a gritty approach on the greens.
Van Cortlandt has embraced Mr. Sliva. The centerpiece of the pro shop is a golf bag embossed with the name of Mr. Sliva's prize pupil: Andrew Giuliani, the son of Rudolph W. Giuliani. The younger Giuliani, now 25, turned pro in 2009; he is currently playing in professional tournaments and hoping to qualify for the P.G.A. Tour.
He was introduced to Mr. Sliva at age 12 by the boy's bodyguard, a retired detective who grew up with Mr. Sliva. Andrew Giuliani considered the municipal course his home course, and Mr. Sliva his coach and teacher, through college.
In a phone interview, Mr. Giuliani credited Mr. Sliva with helping him improve his game and win events like the prestigious Metropolitan Open in New Jersey in 2009, when he earned $27,500 for his first pro tournament win.
''He's got a great eye and can spot things that you're doing and give you what you need in as simple a form as possible,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''He's got a great personality and is able to connect with people, no matter what their background is.''
Mr. Sliva says he charges $135 an hour, which he says his students readily pay.
''I get C.E.O.'s of some of the biggest Wall Street firms, and I get old-timers on Social Security,'' he said. ''Even with this economy, you'd be amazed at what people will pay to make them better players.''
Mr. Sliva, who lives with his wife and children in Fairlawn, N.J., began playing competitively in his 20s as a journeyman golfer, grinding it out on the tournament circuit for cheap purses. He was a teaching pro at driving ranges and golf centers before settling at Van Cortlandt, where he also teaches his share of top-level players.
On Wednesday morning, he worked with Brian Kivlehan, 22, of Mahwah, N.J., who plays professional circuits in the South and hopes to make the P.G.A. Tour.
Mr. Kivlehan attended St. Joseph Regional High School in Montvale, N.J., with Andrew Giuliani, who introduced him to Mr. Sliva.
Mr. Sliva watched Mr. Kivlehan hitting 6-irons to the practice green 175 yards away. The shots started out low, boring missiles and swelled majestically up into the air in a soaring parabolic shape before dropping featherlike onto the tiny-looking practice green.
Mr. Kivlehan said the makeshift practice area did not bother him. Mr. Sliva winked and said, ''It's not about the facility; it's about the teacher.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MB1)
 SWING DOCTOR: At the Van Cortlandt Golf Course in the Bronx, Paul Sliva gave a lesson to a fellow pro, Brian Kivlehan, 22, who plays in tournaments in the South. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MUSTAFAH ABDULAZIZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



215 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Chronicle and Building Are Reflection of Economy

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH. 
gshih@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
In December 2009, 10 employees from the technology company Square moved into an empty corner of the San Francisco Chronicle building at Fifth and Mission. The space had been stripped bare, but Square gave it touches of startup chic: rows of Apple computers, a sparkling-water dispenser, chandeliers designed by Jonathan Adler.
Square, a mobile payment firm headed by the Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey, now has 100 employees packed into what used to be The Chronicle's human resources department. It is thriving alongside a social entrepreneurship collective, a digital art gallery and other startups that signed leases over the past 18 months with Hearst, The Chronicle's parent company and the building's owner.
These success stories contrast starkly with the fortunes of the newspaper. After years of declining circulation and advertising revenue, San Francisco's most influential paper is finding itself increasingly isolated in the building it has called home since 1924. 
The Chronicle building's continuing transformation is a dramatic example of how the San Francisco economy is changing -- even under one roof. With The Chronicle literally shrinking, Hearst and its Cleveland-based developer, Forest City Enterprises, are embarking on a plan to turn a 4.5-acre block around the newspaper -- including idled printing facilities -- into a commercial and residential campus for innovation.
The developers envision replacing the parking lots and warehouses around the Chronicle building with buildings housing startups, all connected by spruced-up alleys and open-air plazas.
''A lot of people just assume it's only one building, but we're creating an ecosystem that lives and breathes art and entrepreneurship,'' said Alexa Arena, the Forest City vice president who is leading the project. (Forest City was the development partner for the Manhattan headquarters of The New York Times Company.)
Charles A. Fracchia, president of the San Francisco Historical Society, said it was ''ironic'' that Hearst appeared to be giving over the Chronicle building to tech firms.
''This is about organic changes in urban life coupled with the fact of always-changing technology,'' Mr. Fracchia said. ''The utilization of that space for a dying newspaper, in their eyes, just doesn't pencil out.''
The age of the building, its monolithic presence south of Market Street, and lingering sentimentality about The Chronicle could present obstacles to Forest City's plans, according to some city officials. They said the company has privately told them it envisions building several office towers as tall as 400 feet, which could come under opposition from neighborhood groups.
Anticipating a long and politically tricky process, Forest City is quietly courting City Hall and local residents and assembling a powerhouse stable of architects, housing experts and lobbyists -- even as The Chronicle's remaining staff members ponder whether the paper will ultimately be evicted from its home.
Frank J. Vega, The Chronicle's chairman and publisher, said in a statement that the newspaper and its Web site, SFGate.com, ''will occupy the building at Fifth and Mission for the foreseeable future.''
Forest City hired a firm headed by two former chiefs of the Office of Economic and Workforce Development under Mayor Gavin Newsom to consult on the project. It also hired Charles E. Chase, president of San Francisco's Historic Preservation Commission, to review the building's historical preservation status.
The developer will have to submit the review to the San Francisco Planning Commission before making changes to the property. Mr. Chase said that because the Historic Preservation Commission is part of the planning commission, he intends to recuse himself from any decisions.
In recent weeks, city officials said Hearst and Forest City executives had brought a ''road show'' to City Hall to meet with officials, even though the project appears to be years from requiring city approval.
''Their ideas are innovative and very responsive to market needs,'' said Jennifer E. Matz, the current director of the mayor's Office of Economic and Workforce Development. ''I'm really interested in seeing how their plans develop.''
Whatever happens, it is clear the Chronicle building and its surrounding neighborhood are already changing dramatically.
On a recent afternoon, a young woman in a bright teal skirt walked gingerly across the Hub, a shared work space for startups on the first floor of the Chronicle building, holding a cup of coffee while reading from a MacBook Air that was perched precariously on her forearm.
''I sometimes look out the window; there are all these interesting-looking people down there, and I don't know what they're doing,'' said Carl Nolte, a veteran editor and columnist who has been at The Chronicle since 1959. ''But they bring vitality to the place. I like that.''
In 1924, The Chronicle moved into its building South of Market -- South of the Slot, as the working-class neighborhood's Irish residents called it. The paper settled in alongside food-processing businesses, maritime supply shops and warehouses.
Twenty years ago, the financial district began to spread south of Market, and ''full-court redevelopment'' began to creep southwest along Mission and Howard Streets, said Mr. Fracchia.
The Chronicle operations once occupied most of the building. But in 2009, after laying off half its editorial staff, the newspaper consolidated its editorial operations on the third floor.
Since the first dot-com boom 10 years ago, newspaper staff members say, rumors of an imminent move have circulated as regularly as wacky news tips about the Zodiac killer. Some speculated that the paper could be relocated as far away as Marin County. In a 2007 interview, Stephen T. Hearst, the general manager of Hearst's Western properties division, publicly mulled razing the Chronicle building.
Brad Paul, a housing consultant hired by Forest City to work on the project, said the developer is now operating under the assumption that the Chronicle building will be left intact. But Ms. Arena, who is directing the project, was more circumspect, saying that at a minimum, Forest City intends to ''celebrate'' the building's historic elements, like the clock tower. She emphasized that Forest City would begin a lengthy process to solicit community input and that no firm plans had been drafted.
The city openly views the project as part of its changing landscape. The Chronicle, said Ken Rich, a project manager in the mayor's Office of Economic and Workforce Development, would be ideal for the large-scale expansion of nimble, entrepreneurial-minded companies like the ones that are now proliferating in the building.
''The interesting thing about this project is it makes people ask the question of, 'Where are jobs going to go in the next two decades?' '' said Mr. Rich.
Gabriel Metcalf, executive director of San Francisco Planning + Urban Research Association, a local policy group, said the neighborhood around Fifth and Mission is a logical extension of the city's continuing economic evolution. ''The location is extraordinary,'' Mr. Metcalf said. ''It's important to the city that we really make use of this site because they are trying to invent a new kind of work environment that is going to work for the economy of the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The parking lot behind the San Francisco Chronicle building, above. Below, the building, seen from the Old Mint on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CITIES (87%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BOTTLED WATER (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); HISTORY (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (84%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); APPLE INC (58%); FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (55%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (58%); FCEB (NYSE) (55%); FCEA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (55%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (55%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



216 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE HAGGLER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Better Business Bureau Makes Its Case

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL. 
E-mail: haggler@nytimes.com Keep it brief and family-friendly, and go easy on the caps-lock key. Letters may be edited for clarity and length.

 BODY:
AS regulars know, the Haggler has written three consecutive columns about the Better Business Bureau. The moral of these unhappy tales is that the organization appears to have drifted from its original mission -- policing bad behavior in corporate America -- to something decidedly less consumer- friendly.
Complaints about companies often appear to be deflected by the Better Business Bureau, and some companies keep an A-plus rating on the group's Web site despite dozens, even hundreds, of gripes. More than a few of the companies are paying annual dues to the bureau, leaving the unfortunate impression that the organization may be shilling for its underwriters. 
A spokeswoman for the Council of Better Business Bureaus -- the patient and unflappable Susan Kearney -- has been asking for the opportunity to respond. Which only seemed fair. So in this episode, the Haggler conducts an interview with the president and chief executive of the Council of Better Business Bureaus, Stephen A. Cox. We spoke by phone on Wednesday.
''One point is that we are a 100-year-old nonprofit that is in transition, and that's a good thing,'' said Mr. Cox, who is based in Arlington, Va., when asked for a kind of opening statement. ''We're transitioning from who we were to who we have to be to meet the needs of today's marketplace.''
What that means, he went on, is that the Better Business Bureau is evolving from its beginnings as a ''grass-roots, look-'em-in-the-eye organization,'' as he put it, to ''an online provider of consumer information.''
All well and good, sprucing up the technology, the Haggler replied. But let's talk about the perils of a business model that is financed, in large part, by members that it grades. Is that not a conflict of interest that is just begging for abuse?
''First, our funding model is not new by any means,'' Mr. Cox said. ''There are certainly critics of our funding model. I'm not trying to back off it, or apologize for it. We've got a longstanding history of doing right by consumers and businesses.''
That said, he noted that a committee formed last October had been charged with taking a look at the ratings system, with a final report due in June. The group is considering whether letter grades -- which have been used for just two years, having replaced the simple ''satisfactory'' or ''unsatisfactory'' approach used for decades -- are the right way to go.
''I would highlight,'' Mr. Cox said, ''that not every accredited company has an A-plus rating, and we've revoked the accreditation of 4,000 businesses'' in 2010.
(Haggler aside: Can you imagine if the bureau gave every accredited company an A-plus, and had never kicked out an accredited business?)
''Are we perfect? No. No organization is,'' Mr. Cox went on. ''Are we always trying to improve? Every organization is.''
The Haggler noted that for years, members of the Better Business Bureau were not allowed to publicize their membership, for fear that it would tempt the organization into pay-to-play shenanigans. Why not go back to those old-school rules?
Mr. Cox did not exactly leap at this suggestion. Instead, he noted that a survey of people who used the Web site had found that 85 percent of respondents felt that the organization's ratings were helpful, and that 88 percent felt that they were fair. Yes, he added, the survey was paid for by the Better Business Bureau.
''Can you go out and find other issues that are head-scratching?'' he asked, referring to previous Haggler columns. ''I guarantee you can do that. On the whole, though, I think we're doing pretty well. But I'm not satisfied with pretty good. We've got to do better.''
One theory about the Better Business Bureau's current rash of troubles -- it's been criticized on ''20/20'' and in other newspapers -- is that the organization is facing a serious threat from opinion Web sites, like Yelp, where consumers can post their own ratings and positive and negative reviews.
The Haggler related to Mr. Cox a recent Yelp experience of his own. A company, which for the sake of mercy shall not be named here, recently installed some window shades in the Haggler's Cave of Justice -- a k a, his home -- and after some confusion about price, a rather stunning conversation with a salesman at the company ensued. We'll skip the details, but the Haggler opened with a benign, ''I think we have a disagreement about cost,'' to which the salesman responded, ''You misled me!'' and promptly hung up the phone.
A withering review was posted on Yelp. The next day, the owner of the company e-mailed to ask what it would take to have that review taken down. The Haggler asked the owner to double-check the cost of the shades, and for an apology from the salesman.
The next day, a partial refund and remorseful e-mail from Mr. You Misled Me! were both issued. Down came the review.
CONTRAST this with the experience of readers who've been e-mailing the Haggler to report their lengthy and ultimately futile attempts to agitate through the Better Business Bureau. How, the Haggler asked, can Mr. Cox and the 120 bureaus across the country compete?
''We fully recognize that our complaint system needs to be simplified and it needs to be streamlined,'' Mr. Cox said. He noted that the bureau provides ratings of its own, which is quite a different service than a free-for-all of opinions. Mr. Cox was conciliatory at other moments, but politely stood firm on the basics of the bureau's economic model. Which, the Haggler would argue, makes ''head-scratchers'' totally inevitable.
And so we wrap up this four-column series with a solemn vow. In the past, the Haggler has cited Better Business Bureau ratings to suggest that a given company is either beloved or despised by the public.
Oopsy daisy. That will never happen again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen A. Cox, who leads the Council of Better Business Bureaus, says it is ''a 100-year-old nonprofit that is in transition, and that's a good thing.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (92%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (91%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (74%); ACCREDITATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



217 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: Foreboding in Sacramento as the Kings Wither Away

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- From the moment it took root in the fertile fields north of downtown, the building known as Arco Arena kindled the basketball passions of this sleepy capital city, tantalizing and tormenting its famously rabid N.B.A. fans.
The Kings arrived, by way of Kansas City, to great fanfare in 1985. They spent their first 13 years with a losing record. This would be Sacramento's fate: every momentary thrill offset by anguish.
As participants in the N.B.A.'s first draft lottery, the Kings had a shot at Patrick Ewing. They drew seventh and got Joe Kleine. In 1989, they won the top pick -- and chose the unremarkable Pervis Ellison.
The Kings' greatest triumph -- a trip to the 2002 Western Conference finals -- begat their greatest heartbreak: a Game 7 collapse against the Los Angeles Lakers on the Arco floor. 
The joyful shrieks and the clanging cowbells fell silent that night, signaling a long and agonizing decline for a team, a city and its loyal boosters. Now fans are bracing for the most profound loss of all: the Kings themselves.
The Maloof family, which owns controlling interest in the Kings, is deep in negotiations to move the franchise to the Honda Center in Anaheim by next season. Although the deal faces potential hurdles -- including a vote by the N.B.A.'s 30 owners -- locals are already talking about their team in the past tense.
''It looks like it's almost inevitable,'' said Carmichael Dave, a sports-talk host whose passion for the Kings spawned his radio career with the team's flagship station.
Mayor Kevin Johnson, a Sacramento native and former star guard for the Phoenix Suns, provided the starkest assessment.
''It feels,'' Johnson wrote in his blog, ''like a slow death.''
As is often the case when teams and cities break up, this is a story about money, politics, missed opportunities, broken promises, hard feelings and blame cast in a dozen directions. It is clouded by a national recession and the N.B.A.'s struggle to sustain teams in small markets.
But it is, at its core, about the arena itself -- an aging, charmingly smallish building that looked outdated within 10 years of its construction in 1988.
Recently rebranded as Power Balance Pavilion -- but still known colloquially as Arco -- the arena seats 17,317, the second-lowest capacity in the league. Its 32 luxury suites and 150 club seats are paltry by modern standards. The ''back of house'' features -- locker rooms, green rooms and staging areas needed for concerts, circuses and other events -- are limited. The N.C.A.A., which used to hold tournament games at Arco, now regards it as substandard.
The city has rejected multiple proposals to build a new arena, most recently abandoning a complicated three-way land-swap plan. The last time the arena issue reached the ballot, in 2006, Sacramento County voters overwhelmingly rejected two measures that would have raised public money to finance an arena.
On Thursday in New York, the Maloofs will address the N.B.A. Board of Governors and make their case. They have until April 18 to file for relocation. A vote could come any time after that.
The Kings need only a majority -- 16 of 30 teams -- to win approval. No franchise in modern N.B.A. history has been denied a relocation request.
The Maloofs have already applied to trademark the name Anaheim Royals.
There is little dispute among Sacramento officials about the need for a new arena, not only for the Kings, but for concerts, ice shows and other entertainment.
Bob Cook, a fifth-generation Sacramentan, was one of the investors who brought the Kings to Northern California. He called the proposed move, which he opposes, ''gut-wrenching,'' but said he understood the Maloofs' position.
''It's not their fault,'' said Cook, who remains a minority shareholder. He added: ''I don't think the Maloofs wanted to move from Sacramento. I think it just got to the point where the frustration was just overwhelming.''
Many fans and city officials do blame the Maloofs, for their perceived political failings, their public missteps and the poor product on the court. The Kings have the league's lowest payroll, $44 million, and are finishing their fifth straight losing season.
There is widespread suspicion, both in Sacramento and in N.B.A. ownership circles, that the Maloofs are either broke or in severe financial distress. The family sold its beer distributorship last year. The Maloofs' Las Vegas casino, the Palms, is said to be in trouble, with Bloomberg News reporting in January that the family might sell controlling interest. Forbes magazine has estimated that the Kings lost about $9.8 million last year, a figure the team disputes.
The Maloofs have declined all interview requests. But two people with close ties to the family, including a Sacramento businessman who has worked with them, said the speculation was off base. Although Maloof Enterprises is ''stressed,'' the family's personal wealth is secure, said the businessman, who spoke on condition of anonymity to protect his relationship.
''They're not personally at risk,'' he said. ''They're not broke. They've got an enterprise that needs improvement.''
A task force appointed by Johnson is conducting a feasibility study for a new sports and entertainment complex, to be built on public land near the downtown railyards. But the study will not be completed until May, and there is still the question of how to finance a $500 million arena without public money.
''Is it too late?'' Cook said, repeating a reporter's question. After a six-second pause, he said: ''I'm not sure. It may be.''
By the team's account, 11 arena proposals have come and gone in the last 11 years. They died for lack of financing or political support, voter opposition to public subsidies and -- depending on the source -- a lack of leadership by team owners, city hall and the N.B.A.
This has led to a strange sort of self-loathing among some of the Kings' most ardent supporters.
''It's really our own fault,'' said Amber Williams, the president of a local marketing firm, who blamed a small-town mentality for the failure of the arena proposals. ''I don't think any logical, thoughtful person looks at this as the Maloofs' issue. This is really our issue as a city.''
Two months ago, Williams's firm, Glass Agency, sponsored a series of billboards under the heading SacDeflated, featuring a deflated basketball and the tag line, ''If the Kings leave, we all lose.''
But, Williams said, ''I don't think we ever thought we were going to save them, to be honest with you.''
It has not stopped fans from trying.
Two weeks ago, Carmichael Dave (who goes only by that alias) started an arena fundraising effort dubbed ''Here We Build,'' on Twitter. Within 24 hours, fans had pledged $140,000 toward a new arena. A local chain of Jiffy Lube shops plastered the hashtag #HereWeBuild on six electronic billboards. As of Friday, pledges had surpassed $575,000, according to organizers.
''The city of Sacramento, much like it has done historically, has completely dropped the ball,'' Carmichael Dave said. ''So leave it to the citizens.''
Another campaign, called Here We Stay, has organized rallies and promoted ticket drives, all in the hope of showing the Maloofs that Sacramento, despite its political failures, still supports the team.
''We're still here, we still believe in you,'' said Michael Tavares, a member of the Here We Stay group, summing up the mission.
At their peak, the Kings were a high-scoring marvel built on athleticism, speed, clever passing and teamwork, fueled by Chris Webber's post play, Peja Stojakovic's 3-point shooting and Vlade Divac's grit. For a time, Arco Arena was the most raucous spot on the N.B.A. map.
But Webber was never the same after a knee injury in the 2003 playoffs. Team officials waited too long to rebuild, and the Kings slipped into competitive irrelevancy. Fan support waned. Then the 2008 recession hit.
Sacramento is a government town with a tiny corporate base, high unemployment (12.9 percent) and one of the nation's highest home foreclosure rates. The city has a $45 million budget deficit. Can it afford a state-of-the-art arena?
''I'll answer the question with a question,'' said Grant Napear, the Kings' longtime play-by-play announcer. ''Does it make sense to lose an employer than employs 1,000 people, that brings a lot of tax revenue and a lot of overall revenue to an economy that is in the dumper?''
Orange County is beckoning, with a population twice the size of Sacramento County's, a healthy base of Fortune 500 companies and the nation's second-largest television market. The Kings, who now earn about $13 million in broadcast rights in Sacramento (the 20th largest market), might double that figure in Anaheim.
If the Maloofs are determined to go, there is little that Kings fans can do now except cheer and hope. They remain surprisingly loyal, cheering loudly at introductions and chanting ''dee-fense'' until the final buzzer.
On Wednesday, the Kings will play perhaps their final game in Sacramento, against the Lakers. Emotions will be high and the roars no doubt deafening. Maybe the cowbells will return for old time's sake. Then the lights will go out.
''If the Kings move,'' Napear said, ''I don't think you'll ever see N.B.A. basketball back in this city in our lifetime.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 22, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption with an article on April 10 about the possibility that the Sacramento Kings basketball franchise will move misidentified the 2002 Western Conference finals game between the team and the Los Angeles Lakers shown in the photograph. It was Game 4, not Game 7. The error was only recently pointed out by a reader.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Maloofs, left to right, George, Gavin and Joe, are expected to move the moribund Sacramento Kings franchise to Anaheim, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, RICH PEDRONCELLI/A.P.
STEVE YEATER/A.P.) (SP1)
Fans made banners, urging the Kings to stay put. Mayor Kevin Johnson of Sacramento said the team's plan felt ''like a slow death.'' The Kings lost a heartbreaking Game 7 to the Lakers in the 2002 Western Conference finals. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE YEATER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HECTOR AMEZCUA/SACRAMENTO BEE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (SP5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SACRAMENTO KINGS (94%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (83%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



218 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Reconfigured Can Maker Invigorates Dogpatch

BYLINE: By ASHWIN SESHAGIRI. 
shwiners@gmail.com

 BODY:
In the Dogpatch neighborhood, along a once-desolate stretch of San Francisco's Third Street, lies what some call a skyscraper on its side. It is the former home of the American Can Company, a manufacturer that once employed thousands in its four-block-long plant overlooking the bay.
Today, rechristened the American Industrial Center, or A.I.C., the complex is home to 275 small- and medium-sized businesses including industrial designers, video production firms and chocolatiers. Though not a business incubator in the traditional sense, the complex has emerged as a hub of collaborative entrepreneurship and a breeding ground for new companies, notably ones in food and technology. 
The A.I.C. has also helped put the Dogpatch neighborhood, long an industrial desert in a post-industrial world, on the city's cultural and economic map. With the opening of the Muni T-line in 2007 and the development of nearby Mission Bay, people have long predicted the Dogpatch would be the next destination neighborhood.
The recession has slowed development and helped preserve the area's wide-open, rough-and-tumble feel. But judging by the A.I.C.'s 4 percent vacancy rate, which is well below industry average, that is just fine with many of the businesses there.
Michael Recchiuti, one of the city's most celebrated chocolate makers, opened a tiny kitchen and production facility in the A.I.C.'s south building with his wife, Jacky, in 1997. Back then, Mr. Recchiuti recalls, sewing shops dominated the complex, and it was common to see chickens for sale in wooden crates along Third Street.
The couple has since expanded to four bays in the south building, and with expansion has come collaboration. A photographer upstairs shoots all of the chocolatiers' pictures, and a graphic designer next door helps create marketing materials.
''You've got a neighbor,'' said Jacky Recchiuti, joking that she could knock on someone's door to ask for a cup of sugar. ''People are willing to help each other out.''
On a late winter afternoon, the south building resembles a dorm hall, with giggling tenants running from unit to unit, brushing against posters promoting art shows. The dense scent of the Recchiutis' baking chocolate creeps down the concrete halls.
Since the Recchiutis moved into the A.I.C. nearly 15 years ago, several other notable food ventures have joined them: the New American restaurant Serpentine, the high-end sandwich and catering company Kitchenette, and the ice cream shop Mr. and Mrs. Miscellaneous, to name a few. It's where Kika's Treats produces artisanal baked goods. It's where Sutton Cellars has set up an appointment-only wine business, and where the next Magnolia Brewery will be opening later this year.
Startup-friendly environments are nothing new to San Francisco, and collective workspaces including Kicklabs, Dogpatch Labs and i/o Ventures are thriving. While most are dominated by Internet-related businesses, others have branched out into other industries, notably food, in the case of La Cocina, based in the Mission district, and social entrepreneurship, in the case of the Hub in SoMa.
Some provide business services and formal support arrangements -- the traditional business incubator model -- that are not offered at A.I.C. Common among all, however, is the notion that new businesses can benefit from a physical community of like-minded ventures.
James Monsees, 31, started Ploom, a company that manufactures devices to vaporize tobacco, five years ago with a Stanford classmate. As he sucked on one of his devices and blew vapor doughnuts one recent afternoon, Mr. Monsees gestured toward the exposed H.V.A.C. system bisecting the ceiling of his lofted office. He described how Ploom split its heating and cooling bills with other tenants.
Neighboring Revision3, for example, an Internet video production company started by Kevin Rose, the founder of the social site Digg.com, requires a lot of energy to cool its servers, despite the normally low temperatures of the former industrial space, Mr. Monsees said. Ploom needs only to heat its space and thanks to a water pump system installed on the roof, the heat generated by powering the air-conditioners at Revision3 can be recycled to keep the workers at Ploom warm.
Dave McLean, the owner of Magnolia Gastropub and Brewery and the Alembic Bar on Haight Street, is also excited about working with his neighbors.
''We already have some fun things planned with Sutton Cellars,'' Mr. McLean, 41, said, adding, ''Collaboration is one of the really exciting aspects of the food and beverage communities right now.''
''I particularly love the way great cities re-imagine and reinvent themselves, or parts of themselves, while retaining the character that makes them unique,'' Mr. McLean said. ''To me, that is a spirit that is very evident in the Dogpatch and the A.I.C., and I'd like to be part of that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Dogpatch neighborhood, seen from the fourth floor of the American Industrial Center, has become a destination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (89%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (77%); OFFICE DESIGN (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); METAL CAN MFG (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (76%); ICE CREAM (76%); RESTAURANTS (74%); BREWERIES (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); CATERING SERVICES (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); PHOTOGRAPHY (67%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (93%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (93%); C (BMV) (93%); 8710 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



219 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Farrakhan Using Libyan Crisis to Bolster His Nation of Islam

BYLINE: By DAVID LEPESKA. 
david.lepeska@gmail.com

 BODY:
When Louis Farrakhan, leader of the Chicago-based Nation of Islam, staunchly defended Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi recently, he seized headlines for an organization that has made little news in recent years.
In an often-fiery speech on March 31 at Mosque Maryam, the group's South Side headquarters, Mr. Farrakhan recalled the decades of friendship and millions of dollars Colonel Qaddafi had lent the Nation of Islam over the years.
''What kind of brother would I be if a man has been that way to me, and to us, and when he's in trouble I refuse to raise my voice in his defense?'' Mr. Farrakhan said to cheers and applause from hundreds of the faithful gathered at the mosque.
Mr. Farrakhan, 77, sounded sincere in his efforts to come to the aid of the embattled Libyan leader. But amid a significant drop in Nation of Islam membership, waning popular interest in the movement he leads and growing concerns over succession, Mr. Farrakhan may also be using the conflict in Libya as an effort to return to relevance. 
Nation of Islam membership has fallen by as much as half from its estimated peak of 100,000 in 1995, when Mr. Farrakhan rallied nearly a million men, most of them black, to the Million Man March in Washington, according to Lawrence H. Mamiya, professor of religion and Africana studies at Vassar College. (The Nation of Islam does not give out membership numbers.)
Over the past decade, Mr. Farrakhan's calls for slavery reparations and his denunciations of the Iraq war and President George W. Bush have gained little attention. In the post-Sept. 11 world, the American news media have focused instead on other Muslim groups led by immigrants to the United States. And in January 2007, Mr. Farrakhan had abdominal surgery to correct damage caused by treatment for prostate cancer, which raised concerns over his succession. He appears to have recovered.
The Nation of Islam in recent years seems to have lost appeal even among black Americans with an interest in Islam. Most who already embrace Islam are likely to join traditional sects led by Arab and South Asian immigrants. Some 35 percent of the American Muslim population of six million to seven million are black Americans, according to a Gallup poll from 2010.
To a core group of supporters, though, Mr. Farrakhan and the Nation of Islam still resonate.
''He does not need to get back into the spotlight,'' said Edward E. Curtis IV, professor of religious studies at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis and author of ''Black Muslim Religion in the Nation of Islam.'' ''He has never left it in black America.''
Nation of Islam officials did not respond to phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.
The Nation of Islam, which was founded in Detroit in 1930 by W. D. Fard, is both a black separatist movement and a unique religion. Its theology spurns traditional Islam, and its organizational goals -- compiled by Elijah Muhammad, its leader from the mid-'30s -- include freedom, equality and a separate nation for blacks.
That message struck a chord during the civil rights era, and celebrity converts like Malcolm X and Muhammad Ali further raised the group's profile.
Chief among its beliefs is that Mr. Fard was an incarnation of God and that Elijah Muhammad was his prophet. The foundation of the Muslim faith is the incantation, ''There is no god but Allah, and Mohammed is his messenger.''
''The theology of the Nation contradicts the basic tenets of Islam,'' said Ihsan Bagby, a professor of Islam at the University of Kentucky.
The Nation of Islam under Mr. Farrakhan has other practices that set it apart. It does not follow sharia law, the sacred rules of Islam based on the Koran and the Sunnah, or sayings of the Prophet. Further, it teaches that black scientists created the universe and the Koran, that Earth is over 76 trillion years old and that a great U.F.O. called the Mother Plane will come to destroy the United States.
Those teachings continue to put the group outside mainstream Islam, said Zaher Sahloul, chairman of the Council of Islamic Organizations of Greater Chicago.
Mr. Farrakhan's re-emergence since the fighting erupted in Libya is a reminder that in the public domain he is seen as a nationalist leader as much as a religious one, Professor Mamiya said.
''Farrakhan has a different claim on the black community,'' Mr. Mamiya said. ''He's never been beholden to the broader Muslim community.''
Mr. Farrakhan's goal has long been ''black liberation,'' a choice of words that mirrors Colonel Qadaffi's pan-African vision. The Nation has been aligned with the colonel for decades, since it received a $3 million loan from him in 1972 to remake a Greek Orthodox church on the South Side into Mosque Maryam, the group's current headquarters.
The rebellion against Colonel Qaddafi has given Mr. Farrakhan a chance to bring his own agenda back into public debate. During the speech in which he defended the colonel, Mr. Farrakhan also expressed his hope for ''a state or territory of our own.''
The speech was a reminder of Mr. Farrakhan's continued appeal. At the group's annual conference in 2009, the rapper Snoop Dogg praised Mr. Farrakhan's speeches and all but converted. ''People are still attracted to the charisma,'' Mr. Mamiya said.
The question facing the group now is whether Mr. Farrakhan has laid adequate plans for succession. He has mandated that official control of the organization will shift to the Council of Leaders after he departs or dies, but there is no single leader who seems capable of matching the charismatic leadership of Mr. Farrakhan and his predecessors.
Ishmael Muhammad, a council member and son of Elijah Muhammad, is sometimes considered the most likely successor.
''The Nation has always been attracted to charismatic figures,'' Mr. Mamiya said. ''Whether it's going to hold or another leader will emerge from the council is a big question.''
That question has become a matter of interest to the federal government. In December 2009, the Justice Department revealed that the Department of Homeland Security monitored the Nation of Islam in 2007, and that its Office of Intelligence and Analysis had prepared a document, ''Nation of Islam: Uncertain Leadership Succession Poses Risk.''
Charles E. Allen, who was then the under secretary for intelligence and analysis at the department, later softened this view. ''The organization -- despite its highly volatile and extreme rhetoric -- has neither advocated violence nor engaged in violence,'' Mr. Allen wrote in 2008. ''Moreover, we have no indications that it will change goals and priorities, even if there is a near-term change in the Nation's leadership.''
Professor Curtis said he believed that in the long term the Nation of Islam would become more about black empowerment and less about Islam.
''Even if parts of its unique theology are abandoned,'' he said, ''its emphasis on self-help, black pride, economic independence and political self-determination are likely to be incorporated in whatever denominational forms emerge from the Nation of Islam movement.''
Most congregants declined to comment as they left Mosque Maryam on Stony Island Avenue after a recent meeting. But Maurice Mohammad, a longtime member, responded when asked what he thought of the defense of Colonel Qaddafi. ''I agree with what our leader says,'' he said.
Then a Nation of Islam representative approached, and escorted him away.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Friday on Louis Farrakhan, leader of the Chicago-based Nation of Islam, listed Kareem Abdul-Jabbar among several prominent converts to the Nation of Islam. Although Mr. Abdul-Jabbar is a Muslim and was taught the religion by a former national secretary of the Nation of Islam, he was never a member of the Nation of Islam.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Louis Farrakhan vigorously defended Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi on March 31 at Mosque Maryam, the Nation of Islam headquarters in Chicago, and the faithful listened raptly. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES
TANNEN MAURY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (89%); MEN (89%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (65%); MEN'S HEALTH (65%); ONCOLOGY (65%); PROSTATE DISEASE (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); IRAQ WAR (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); CANCER (62%); PROSTATE CANCER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



220 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Courtroom Drama

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

 BODY:
With perfect (if shamelessly calculated) timing, THE FIFTH WITNESS (Little, Brown, $27.99), Michael Connelly's new legal mystery featuring Mickey Haller -- known in certain circles as the Lincoln Lawyer because he does business out of the back seat of his Town Car -- arrives in bookstores at the same time the feature film adapted from the first book in this series (also called ''The Lincoln Lawyer'') hits the movie theaters. Despite that confluence of events, Haller hasn't gone Hollywood in this lively caper, although he does sell out to some extent by disengaging himself from his bulletproof car (acquired from a drug dealer's widow) and renting a real office, complete with ''a nap couch.''
With his usual adroitness at adapting to economic realities, Haller is currently specializing in the booming field of real estate foreclosure defense. (From where he sits, it's ''the only growth industry in the law business'' in Los Angeles.) But he finds himself back in criminal court when Lisa Trammel, a client in defiance of a foreclosure notice, is accused of murdering the bank executive in charge of taking her house. 
Hotheaded Lisa is a handful, having picketed the bank, spooked the banker and inspired other foreclosure victims to join her protest. Haller, though, has a sneaking suspicion that his most flamboyant ''nuisance client'' might not be guilty of murder. ''That wasn't like me, to believe in innocence,'' he confesses. But ''idealism dies hard,'' and Haller pulls together a defense team to take on her case, which turns into a media circus after Lisa signs up with an opportunistic producer intent on selling her story to the movies.
Haller is the kind of slick, cynical showman who can't resist making high drama out of every routine legal procedure. He arranges a closed-bid art auction to serve a subpoena on a resistant witness, rigs a photo trick to break down solid eyewitness testimony and takes a mannequin into court to illustrate a dubious defense point.
''It was all strategy and games,'' he confesses, ''and I had to admit it was the best part of a trial.'' But Connelly is himself a master manipulator, and there's always something deadly serious behind his entertaining courtroom high jinks. Here he describes the background of the real estate collapse, exposing the venality involved in mortgage foreclosures. And just to keep it light, he throws in a few inside jokes about Hollywood hustlers and the things they'll do to get their hands on a hot property.
DRAWING CONCLUSIONS (Atlantic Monthly, $24), Donna Leon's 20th Venetian mystery featuring her compassionate police detective, Commissario Guido Brunetti, epitomizes what we treasure most about this series: a feeling for the life of a sublimely beautiful city and a sensitivity to the forces that are reshaping it. Not to mention the pleasure of being in Brunetti's company when this shrewd but scrupulously honest man is having a crisis of ethics at the flower market or trying to pry information from a hostile nun.
Brunetti's close scrutiny of the modest apartment where an elderly widow has just died opens this investigation into two types of silent victims, abused women and old people living and dying alone. According to a resident of the nursing home where the widow volunteered her time, she was ''a good woman'' who ''understood things. Why people do things,'' but whose inflexible sense of right and wrong may have caused her death. This offends Brunetti, who is distressed to think that the Venetian tolerance of corruption -- about which he himself is profoundly ambivalent -- has made it a liability for a decent person to maintain a commitment to justice.
Yashim, the eunuch investigator in Jason Goodwin's sumptuous mysteries set in 19th-century Istanbul, is often away from the palace on royal assignments. That alone adds to the exotic allure of the intimate views of harem life in AN EVIL EYE (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26), which opens with the death of Sultan Mahmut II and the pandemonium in the seraglio when his 16-year-old successor arrives at the palace with his own harem. ''We're the pretty girls,'' the newcomers taunt the older women scrambling to gather up their children and salvage a few possessions to take into exile. But in the thrill of the moment, two of the new girls insult the late sultan's sister and unleash what some palace residents fear is a curse. Russian designs on the Ottoman Empire add political dimensions to the plot and heighten the dangers of Yashim's investigation. But those nasty Russians have a lot to learn from the devious ladies in the seraglio.
In Lori Roy's haunting first novel, BENT ROAD (Dutton, $25.95), Arthur Scott tries to escape the volatile racial climate of Detroit in 1967 by moving his wife and three children to the tiny Kansas town he left after the violent death of his sister 25 years earlier. Writing with a delicate touch but great strength of purpose, Roy creates stark studies of the prairie landscape and subtle portraits of the Scotts as they struggle to adjust not only to their rural surroundings but to their troublesome relatives and taciturn neighbors. While Arthur seems to thrive in this environment, the younger children are tormented at school and his wife, who no longer wears her pearls to church, is most aware of how they have all coarsened and accepted the brutish values of this alien world. At the end of this Gothic nightmare, the Scotts have been exposed to more violence and suffering than they ever were in big, bad Detroit.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); FILM (90%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); WITNESSES (89%); SUBPOENAS (88%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (87%); TESTIMONY (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); ART DEALERS (74%); AUCTIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MURDER (71%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BOOKSTORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Fifth Witness, The (Book); Drawing Conclusions (Book); Evil Eye, An (Book); Bent Road (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



221 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Picking Stocks to Keep Ahead of Inflation

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF investor behavior foreshadows what's in store for the economy several months down the road, inflation could be a bigger threat than government figures now suggest.
The current numbers paint a rather benign picture, as core inflation in the United States has been growing at a modest annual rate of 1.1 percent. Even when volatile food and energy prices are factored in, overall consumer prices rose just 2.1 percent over the year through February, the most recent period for which data are available.
Yet the market appears to be looking past this information. Since the end of December, investors have been pulling money out of mutual funds that invest in assets that fare poorly when inflation kicks up, like intermediate-term bonds and cash, according to an analysis of fund flows by Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch Global Equity Research. 
At the same time, they've been pouring money into funds that invest in traditional inflation plays. Those include Treasury inflation-protected securities, commodities and, of course, stocks. Equity funds alone have drawn $30 billion in net inflows since the end of December, according to the Investment Company Institute, the fund industry trade group.
Of course, there is still a debate over whether these shifts make sense. Worrisome levels of inflation may not materialize at all. Economists at IHS Global Insight, for example, are forecasting that consumer prices will grow at only around 2 percent a year from 2012 through 2014. They say they believe that wage growth will be muted in a sluggish job recovery.
But some strategists are bracing for an inflation jump. Jason Hsu, chief investment officer at Research Affiliates, a consulting firm in Newport Beach, Calif., said he expected the numbers to rise in a little more than a year from now. ''We're talking about inflation hovering in the 4 percent area,'' he said, with a risk of it moving even higher. He pointed to the flood of stimulus that's been pumped into the economy by governments throughout the world. Some central banks overseas have already reversed course and are raising rates to keep a lid on prices. The European Central Bank made such a move last week, citing worrisome levels of inflation in food and energy costs. Even if Mr. Hsu is right, though, there is still the question of how effective stocks will be in protecting portfolios amid rising consumer prices.
Historically, stocks have been regarded as a decent inflation hedge -- at least relative to bonds and cash -- because stock returns have outpaced inflation for most of the past century.
Yet it's not always the case. Ned Davis Research, based in Venice, Fla., recently analyzed how the market performed in different inflationary environments over the past four decades. While the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index posted double-digit gains, on average, when inflation has been between 1 percent and 4 percent, stocks fell at an annualized rate of 1.4 percent when inflation jumped to between 4 percent and 9 percent.
What's more, in periods when the inflation rate is accelerating, not all types of stocks perform the same way. Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's Equity Research, looked at periods since 1970 when the year-over-year change in the Consumer Price Index was accelerating. He found eight such sustained periods, and saw that half of the 10 market sectors, on average, gained ground during those times; the others declined or were flat.
Which types of equities are likely to outperform if inflation starts to heat up this time?
Mr. Hsu says he thinks large, domestically based multinational companies would look attractive if inflation really took off and the dollar continued to weaken against other major currencies. Although a weaker dollar would effectively raise the cost of goods imported from overseas, it would lower prices for exports, thus benefiting the American multinationals.
Another promising area is dividend-paying stocks, said Kate Warne, investment strategist at Edward Jones in St. Louis. Since 1947, payouts issued by the S.& P. 500 companies have grown at an annual rate of 5.6 percent, she said, outpacing the 3.7 percent inflation rate during the period.
BUT there is another reason to favor dividend payers, she said. Businesses that stand to thrive during inflationary periods are those that have the power to pass along price increases to their customers. And companies with growing dividends often have that ability. ''When you think about it,'' she said, ''companies that have pricing power -- and are thus able to maintain their profit margins -- will be able to continue to raise their dividends.''
Brad Sorensen, director of market and sector analysis at Charles Schwab, said pricing power might be focused in certain sectors. Historically, ''energy companies have proven they can raise prices pretty quickly at the pump if oil climbs,'' he said. ''On the other end of the spectrum, consumer companies have a hard time passing along price increases on things like clothes because there's so much competition.''
If inflation spikes, energy has proved to be a good place to hide. But if the discussion moves from rising inflation to hyperinflation, other defensive areas of the market like health care and utilities would seem to make sense, Mr. Stovall said. After all, no matter how expensive things become, people still need to see the doctor and turn on the lights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BONDS (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



222 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Ponders (Some More) the Wisdom of Replacing a Roadway

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Here in the capital of the Pacific Northwest, where commercial jets were born but now the mayor brags about biking to work, questions over commerce, climate change and community are converging on a couple of fateful miles of asphalt.
Is the Alaskan Way Viaduct overlooking Elliott Bay on the western edge of downtown just an elevated relic, another old road that needs to be replaced? Or is it something more, a symbol whose fate will help shape not only this city but the rest of urban -- and New Urbanist -- America?
''It's not just a highway anymore,'' Mayor Mike McGinn said. ''It's about the type of city we are and what are our priorities.''
Another question: Is Mr. McGinn a visionary or an obstructionist? 
For a decade, since a 2001 earthquake exposed the viaduct's vulnerability, this ambitious but frequently indecisive city has been debating what to do about it. In 2009, the city, county and state came up with a plan to replace the viaduct with a $3.1 billion, 1.7-mile tunnel that would run beneath downtown skyscrapers and behind a seawall protecting it from Puget Sound. In a city inclined to dither, something was getting done.
Then came the 2009 mayoral race. Greg Nickels, the man who had pushed the tunnel plan through, was seeking a third term. ''My calculus was that this is the kind of thing that it's O.K. to lose an election over,'' Mr. Nickels said recently.
Mr. McGinn, a former state chairman of the Sierra Club, centered his campaign on opposition to the tunnel. (At a time when greenhouse gas emissions threaten our very existence, he asked, why build something that encourages driving?) Never mind that the tunnel had, at long last, appeared to be a done deal. Mr. McGinn said that instead of a tunnel he wanted to replace the viaduct with a surface boulevard and new public transit options.
With polls tight in the final weeks before the general election, Mr. McGinn hedged, saying he would not necessarily stand in the tunnel's way. Now that he is in office, he is back to fighting it.
Some people call him a liar. His predecessor is more diplomatic: ''Surprised and disappointed,'' Mr. Nickels said. A recent poll showed clear disapproval of Mr. McGinn.
''I never said I wouldn't fight the tunnel,'' Mr. McGinn, a Democrat, said in an interview. He later sent a text message, ''To clarify: I always said I would fight paying cost overruns on the tunnel.''
Even as residents say they disapprove of Mr. McGinn, most seem to like his idea of holding a vote on whether the City Council was right to have approved the tunnel contracts. (The Council vote was eight to one, the one also being a former Sierra Club leader.)
The matter is scheduled to go on the ballot in August, except that the city attorney, the City Council, the governor and pretty much every other member of the exasperated political establishment say it has no business being on a ballot. They have gone to court to try to stop it from getting there. The decision on the tunnel, they say, has been made.
''Social engineering works in some places, like banning cigarettes in some places,'' said Gov. Christine Gregoire, a Democrat. ''Telling people you no longer can ride in your car isn't going to work because this city is going to grow.''
The debate, to some degree, is over how it should grow: do huge building projects reflect boldness, or is resisting them, particularly in hard economic times, bolder?
''It sort of makes for the myth of what makes a strong economy, people locking arms and saying we're going to get this big thing done,'' said John Norquist, president of the Congress for the New Urbanism, based in Chicago, who opposes the tunnel. ''It might be that getting a lot of smaller things done makes for a strong economy.''
Yet Ms. Gregoire, along with people like Bill Bryant, the president of the Port of Seattle Commission, argues that the tunnel, which would begin just north of the fast-growing port, will ease traffic congestion and send an important message: Washington State, heavily trade dependent and in need of the world's business, is not consumed only with coffee shops and bike lanes.
''I hope the city of the future includes solid middle-class jobs, family-wage jobs, and that cities will find a way to be compatible with manufacturing, fishing and industrial sectors,'' Mr. Bryant said. ''That requires trains and trucks.''
The other side points out that the tunnel is not expected to carry much freight traffic. For that matter, it is projected to carry less than half of the 110,000 cars that travel on the viaduct each day, in part because many people will refuse to the pay $4 tolls. And, while it will follow roughly the same route as the viaduct, the tunnel will have no downtown exits. And if the tunnel goes over budget, state law says that Seattle, not the state, could have to pay.
''This part of the fight was inevitable,'' said Dominic Holden, the news editor for The Stranger, a weekly newspaper that has been critical of the tunnel.
Mr. Holden was referring to the referendum, the lawsuits, the potential fight over the tunnel's environmental impact, the whole messy endgame after a messy decade.
''There's no more consensus now than there was 10 years ago when we started this debate,'' said Stuart Elway, a longtime independent pollster here. ''If it came to a vote, with the options on the table, it wouldn't clarify anything.''
Mr. Elway recently conducted a poll that clarified only how unclear things are. It showed that barely a third of voters supported the tunnel, but even fewer people supported Mr. McGinn's preference, the boulevard and transit idea. (Thirty-eight percent of respondents said they wanted to repair the viaduct or replace it with another elevated highway.)
And even as it showed Mr. McGinn with a dismal approval rating, it said that a majority, 55 percent, wanted to put the tunnel to a vote. ''We really like voting here,'' Mr. Elway said.
If the tunnel is built on schedule -- and the brewing fights make that questionable -- it will open in December 2015. The viaduct, in place since 1953, would come down after that, allowing the currently walled-off downtown to again meet Elliott Bay and the distant vista of the Olympic Mountains.
In the meantime, the viaduct remains open. The state closes it completely twice a year for inspections. Workers recently installed gates, linked to seismic measuring devices, that are supposed to close in the event of an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.0 or higher.
''It's not going to fall down tomorrow, just by itself,'' said Ron Paananen, the program administrator for the Alaskan Way Viaduct program. ''But it is a structure that's nearing the end of its life.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the planned construction of a tunnel in Seattle to replace an aging viaduct misstated the level of support in a recent poll for another proposal, to repair the viaduct or replace it with a new one. It drew the support of 38 percent of respondents, not most of them. The article also misstated the cost of demolition of the viaduct and construction of a tunnel. It is $3.1 billion, not $4.2 billion, which includes the cost of nearby construction related to the project.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Seattle had plans to replace the Alaskan Way Viaduct, vulnerable to earthquakes, with a tunnel. But Mayor Mike McGinn wants a different approach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); CITIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TEXT MESSAGING (60%); EMISSIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



223 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: This Jobless Rate Isn't the New Normal

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
IT takes a while to match people with jobs, so even in normal times the unemployment rate is never zero. Before the recent recession, in the view of many economists, the lowest sustainable rate of unemployment in the United States -- a level known as the normal or natural rate of unemployment -- was around 5 percent.
The turmoil of the last few years, however, has shaken up the economy. Is it possible that it has affected the natural rate of unemployment -- increasing it to 8 or even 9 percent? Such a climb would imply that the prospects for a rebound in output and employment have been greatly reduced -- and that high unemployment would be our new normal. 
This is implicitly the view of some Federal Reserve policy makers, who say that there is nothing more the central bank can do to lower unemployment. And it's the view of those who say ''structural'' factors are the main cause of our current high unemployment, which stood at 8.8 percent in March.
Fortunately, there is a more compelling explanation. Strong evidence suggests that the natural rate of unemployment actually hasn't risen very much. Instead, the elevated unemployment rate appears to reflect mainly cyclical factors, particularly a lingering shortfall in consumer spending and business investment.
Consider the effects of changes in industrial composition. The housing bust and financial crisis led to a decline in construction and finance employment that is likely to be long-lasting. Does that imply a substantial rise in normal unemployment? Almost surely not. Compared with the pre-crisis days, about 1.3 million more construction and finance workers are out of work. Even if they all remained permanently unemployed -- which is obviously unrealistic -- this change would add less than a percentage point to the normal unemployment rate.
More fundamentally, the economy can usually cope with changes in industrial composition. During normal times, industries decline and grow, and displaced workers move to new sectors. For example, manufacturing jobs declined steadily as a share of total employment in the 1990s, yet the normal unemployment rate remained very low.
The real problem today is that jobs are scarce in just about all sectors. An important study, published in 2010 and recently updated, showed that workers who have lost jobs in construction and finance have been leaving the ranks of the unemployed at almost the same rate as those laid off in less troubled industries. The problem isn't about particular sectors; it's about a general lack of hiring.
What about declining geographic mobility? Today, about 11 million families are underwater on their mortgages, which means they owe more than their homes are currently worth. This could make it harder for them to sell their homes and move to jobs in other regions.
But the argument that such ''house lock'' is a source of high unemployment runs into two empirical walls. First, jobs are not plentiful anywhere. In the most recent data, the unemployment rate in every state was above its level before the recession. So our unemployment problem wouldn't go away if only people could move more easily.
Second, if house lock were an important factor, we would expect to see greater declines in labor mobility in states with more underwater mortgages, and among homeowners compared with renters. A study scheduled for publication in The Journal of Economic Perspectives finds no support for either of these hypotheses.
Narayana Kocherlakota, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, made waves last August when he pointed to a recent climb in posted job vacancies as evidence that current unemployment is mainly structural. Normally, there wouldn't be this many vacancies until unemployment were closer to normal. Therefore, he argued, a severe mismatch between unemployed workers and the skill requirements or location of available jobs had raised the normal unemployment rate by as much as three percentage points.
But this analysis misses the fact that early in recoveries, vacancies typically rise relative to unemployment. Also, as discussed by Peter A. Diamond in his recent Nobel prize lecture, businesses that are relatively more plentiful today -- for example, larger companies and those outside of construction -- tend to post their vacancies more consistently. Thus, the changing composition of companies helps explain the unusual rise in vacancies.
When experts weigh the evidence, they come down strongly on the side that normal unemployment has not risen greatly. Once a year, the Survey of Professional Forecasters asks respondents for their estimate of the natural unemployment rate. In the third quarter of 2010, the median estimate was 5.78 percent, almost exactly one percentage point higher than in the third quarter of 2007, just before the recession started. (The highest estimate was 6.8 percent.) And the Congressional Budget Officeuses 5.2 percent as its estimate of the natural rate.
All of this suggests that most of our high unemployment is still the consequence of low demand. Consumers remain hesitant to spend because unemployment and debt are high. Companies are unwilling or unable to invest because customers are few and credit is still tight.
This diagnosis suggests that the appropriate remedy is to stimulate demand. In February, I suggested a number of steps the Federal Reserve could take. Some additional fiscal measures would also be useful. More public investment (as the president has advocated), additional aid to state and local governments, and a cut in payroll taxes for employers would all help. Given the severity of the long-run budget problem, short-run fiscal stimulus should only be undertaken as part of a comprehensive package of gradual spending cuts and tax increases. That would give the economy the jolt it needs, while providing reassurance that the United States will remain solvent over the long haul.
REGARDLESS of the cause of extended high unemployment, it is a disaster for families, the economy and government budgets. Thus, if I am wrong, and more unemployment is structural than the current evidence suggests, this is no excuse for washing our hands of the problem. Only the nature of the needed policy response would change. Instead of focusing on increasing demand, we would need policies to help workers and jobs find one another, measures to move workers to where the jobs are (or vice versa), training programs and better education.
And even though today's unemployment appears mainly cyclical, it could turn structural. The longer that unemployment remains high for cyclical reasons, the more likely that job prospects for unemployed workers will be permanently damaged. In a number of European countries in the 1980s, for example, prolonged recession appears to have caused normal unemployment to rise sharply. Getting cyclical unemployment down quickly is the surest way to prevent that from happening in the United States.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FAMILY (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



224 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: Discomfort Zone

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
FROM the moment that Jim Halpert, the clean-cut everyman of the Dunder Mifflin paper company played by John Krasinski, stepped into the regional manager's office here on an isolated Van Nuys soundstage, everything seemed off -- more off than usual.
A familiar desk had been redecorated with miniature totem poles and other Southwestern-style tchotchkes. A dream catcher now hung on a wall. And sitting in the chair that for seven seasons has belonged to Steve Carell's irresistibly incompetent bureaucrat, Michael Scott, was a new employee named Deangelo Vickers.
He looked almost exactly like Will Ferrell, the frantic man-child of hit comedies like ''Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy'' and ''Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby,'' but wearing a dapper three-piece suit and a mighty turquoise ring. His blue eyes possessed a certain placidness, but right now they were imperiously staring down Jim, who needed only to be asked, ''Can I help you with something?'' before he exited the room in stunned silence.
It was the first week of shooting on the NBC comedy ''The Office'' following the departure of Mr. Carell, who has been the most reliably devastating weapon in the show's comic arsenal since its debut in 2005. 
These were uneasy times for the show's permanent cast members, who got choked up when they saw his vacated trailer being moved just a few feet across the parking lot, and now face the uncertainty of where the show will go and whether viewers will still watch it without him.
But for Mr. Ferrell, whose ''Office'' appearances (starting April 14) would seem like a filigree on an already illustrious comedy career, the tour of duty comes with its own burdens. A few days away from wrapping a four-episode commitment, he was still wondering where he fit into the show, and what awaited him in the world beyond Dunder Mifflin's doors.
Sitting in his trailer, decorated with a painting of a pair of moccasins, and recalling his earliest days on set, Mr. Ferrell said: ''I'm looking at all the familiar faces of the cast, going'' -- he drew a deep breath -- ''O.K., this is what you wanted.''
With a sardonic chuckle, Mr. Ferrell described himself as ''the guest who got brought to the wedding, that everyone said, 'No, no, we have an extra seat.' ''
''And then,'' he added, ''you get there and. ...'' His voice dropped to a whisper: ''Oh. Wait.''
This emblematically ''Office''-like sequence of hesitations, half-starts and misread signals was initiated over the summer, when Mr. Carell said publicly that the coming season of the show would be his last.
Mr. Ferrell, who met Mr. Carell in the 1990s and later acted with him in films like ''Anchorman'' and ''Bewitched,'' found himself watching ''The Office'' on a plane ride that fall, and wondered if he could provide a personal farewell gift.
In a meeting with his manager and agents, Mr. Ferrell said he told them, ''I'd love to go on and just do a cameo. My TV agent was like: 'What? Oh my God. Really?' ''
Paul Lieberstein, an ''Office'' executive producer who plays the show's perpetually subdued human resources officer, Toby Flenderson, was equally excited to get the call from Mr. Ferrell's representatives. ''It seemed too amazing not to try to squeeze every drop of juice out of that,'' Mr. Lieberstein said. ''I've been struggling for a plan of how we were going to transition out of the Steve Carell era, and it had been weighing on me. Having Will Ferrell was the answer.''
Concerned that audiences would misconstrue Mr. Carell's last episode on April 28 as the season finale -- or possibly the series finale -- ''Office'' producers worked out a story arc for Mr. Ferrell that would start two weeks earlier and run one week beyond Mr. Carell's exit.
At one point the producers also sought Mr. Carell's blessing to cede some of his spotlight to Mr. Ferrell, though this did not prevent an awkward ''Office''-esque encounter between the actors at a Los Angeles Lakers game.
''He was unsure of whether I was aware of it or whether they were saving it as a surprise for me,'' Mr. Carell said in a phone interview, ''and I neglected to bring it up.''
Even so, Mr. Carell said: ''Frankly I was very humbled by it. It's such a gracious thing for him to do as a friend, plus the fact I knew that he'd have fun doing it.''
That ''The Office'' would welcome an extended stay from Mr. Ferrell, the ''Saturday Night Live'' alumnus and Funny Or Die co-founder whose 2010 feature ''The Other Guys'' was his fifth live-action comedy to break $100 million at the United States box office, is not astounding. The show is still the strongest performer on NBC's once unassailable Thursday comedy block, drawing about 7.3 million viewers a week for new episodes. But no one knows how those numbers might change when Mr. Carell is removed from the equation. ''We could crash and burn without Steve,'' said Rainn Wilson, who plays the devious subordinate Dwight Schrute. ''We could be in a whole mess of trouble.''
Perhaps more surprising is that Mr. Ferrell arrived at ''The Office'' feeling pressure to fulfill the expectations of the tightly knit cast members and eager to bond with them. ''I just really wanted to fit in, in that first-day-of-school feeling,'' said Mr. Ferrell, who in person is more low key and quietly funny than his frenzied goofball characters. ''When anyone would complain about something, I'd be like, 'Yeah, what's going on with that?' And John Krasinski would be like, 'No, too early. You don't get to say that stuff.' ''
Behind those feelings, Mr. Ferrell acknowledged, was some uncertainty about his career trajectory and a fear that he would not be funny in whatever he does next. Asked when he thought his accomplishments would dispel that fear, Mr. Ferrell replied, ''Oh, jeez,'' exhaling audibly. ''It's very much a treading-water feeling. I don't think there's any amount of success that would ever make that go away.''
Since finishing work on ''The Other Guys,'' as the recession continued and Hollywood pulled its purse strings tighter, Mr. Ferrell said, ''Things just weren't coalescing'' for him. Unable to get a couple of unspecified projects off the ground and feeling his options were diminishing, he said, ''O.K., if those are all going to go away, it's an exciting time for me to make some more artful choices.''
In the months that followed he filmed roles in offbeat fare like the Spanish-language comedy ''Casa de Mi Padre'' and ''Everything Must Go,'' an independent drama adapted from the Raymond Carver short story ''Why Don't You Dance?''
Dan Rush, who made his feature writing and directing debut with ''Everything Must Go,'' said he cast Mr. Ferrell in the lead role, as a dejected man who sells all his worldly possessions at a yard sale, because he ''is an inherently good guy and an inherently sympathetic individual, and that's very hard to fake.''
Even so, Mr. Rush said, ''He's genuinely funny, but when we see a number of films, we start to develop an expectation. Certainly, with Will, that's been the expectation.''
Mr. Ferrell's reputation for -- some would say overreliance on -- playing likable buffoons seemed to work to his advantage in his portrayal of Deangelo Vickers, an interim manager as absurd as Michael Scott, with an inexplicable fixation on Southwestern culture.
Filming a scene from his last episode, Mr. Ferrell stood at the reception desk of Dunder Mifflin, delivering to the staff a passionate speech meant to convince them that he is not sexist (while introducing the svelte but inexperienced female assistant he has just hired). With the eyes of nearly every ''Office'' cast member on him, Mr. Ferrell did not resort to loud voices, wild gesticulations or other showy shtick, but gave a sincere reading of his oration. ''Raise your hand if you have a vagina,'' he said. ''Raise your hand if someone you love has a vagina.'' He paused for emphasis and looked around the room. For some reason both of his hands were raised.
''There's no malice in his characters at all,'' said Paul Feig, who directed Mr. Ferrell in Mr. Carell's last show. ''They're just misguided a lot of the time, but there's always a respect and a love for the character.''
By bringing in Mr. Ferrell for even a few weeks ''The Office'' may temporarily sate viewers who expect to see Mr. Carell replaced by a celebrity of equal or greater value. But the strategy was no indication of the show's future plans, and some cast members cautioned against the permanent hiring of another A-lister.
''If we just did a boss for a boss,'' Mr. Krasinski said of Mr. Ferrell's guest stint, ''this is how it would feel, and it's pretty funny. Do I think that's necessarily the best thing for the show? No, and I don't think Will does, and I don't think Steve did. I don't even think the producers do.''
What the ''Office'' producers may lack in clarity or candor about their vision for the show's future they amply make up for in nervousness. Asked a few questions about a possible replacement for Mr. Carell, Mr. Lieberstein became agitated. He started, stopped and retracted his responses multiple times before settling on the following answer: ''We have decided to go past Steve with the cast we have, because of the cast we have.''
Even so, ''The Office'' is front-loading its May 19 finale with guest stars like Ricky Gervais and Will Arnett, while ratcheting up anticipation for an announcement of Michael Scott's full-time replacement.
From his ''Office'' trailer Mr. Ferrell said he had no plans for or interest in a permanent return to television, and was committed this fall to filming a comedy in which he and Zach Galifianakis play rival politicians seeking a Southern Congressional seat. (That didn't stop Mr. Ferrell from telling reporters a few days later -- in an apparent joke -- that he hoped to join ''The Office'' full time.)
Mr. Ferrell has previously tried his hand at more dramatic roles (''Stranger Than Fiction'') and even starred on Broadway (in his one-man show, ''You're Welcome America. A Final Night With George W Bush''). But when he spoke of his friend Mr. Carell, whose film work has balanced pathos (see ''Little Miss Sunshine'') with broad comedy (''The 40-Year-Old Virgin''), he sounded ever-so-slightly envious.
Still, both actors have faced similar challenges when they have tried to step out of their comfort zones. Recalling a day when a new film project of Mr. Carell's was announced while they were working together on ''The Office,'' Mr. Ferrell said Mr. Carell went online, and ''there was a comment in the Webisphere, of, like, 'There he goes again, trying to be serious.' ''
Mr. Ferrell added: ''If you stay in the pocket and just do one thing all the time, you'll get criticized for that. If you branch out a little bit, it's, 'Why do they think they've got to do that?' ''
(So in conclusion, Mr. Ferrell said with a laugh, ''I'll just stay away from the Internet.'')
Mr. Carell said that neither he nor Mr. Ferrell needed to take roles to prove their capabilities.
''For someone like him, especially, there is an expectation,'' Mr. Carell said. ''But I think we both agree that the need is not to defy the expectation, but just to do things that are interesting and good and fun for us to do.''
For now Mr. Ferrell's excursion into ''The Office'' was all the boundary busting he cared to do, he said, and while further experimentation is possible, some basic desires would always remain.
''You still have that competitive thing where you want to try to make hits,'' he said. ''That won't go away, unless the mayor of show business says my time is up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (AR1)
Will Ferrell in ''The Office,'' The NBC comedy. The show's producers hope that Mr. Ferrell's visit will blunt viewers' disappointment at Steve Carell's departure. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN SCANLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Top, Will Ferrell in ''Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby'' and, at far right above, in ''Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy.'' On ''The Office'' he's stepping in for Steve Carell, near right, with Mr. Ferrell, John Krasinski and Jenna Fischer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE HANOVER/COLUMBIA PICTURES
FRANK MASI/DREAMWORKS LLC
 CHRIS HASTON/NBC) (AR20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER MFG (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

PERSON: STEVE CARELL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Office, The (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



225 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Voodoo, An Anchor, Rises Again

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
IT was past 3 a.m. in a dim basement in Flatbush, Brooklyn, and Jack Laroche, a Haitian-American computer engineer, nervously awaited his bride: a voodoo spirit named Ezili Freda who believers say has the power to lavish love and wealth and render wayward spouses impotent.
As four drummers pounded rhythmically, voodoo priestesses in bright-colored dresses danced in ecstatic circles, dousing the floor with rum and chanting, ''Ayibobo!'' -- the voodoo ''amen.'' The bride's dramatic entrance was signaled when a priestess in a shimmering pink silk dress started trembling violently, her eyes rolling toward the back of her head before she fainted. When she came to, apparently possessed by Ezili Freda, she took Mr. Laroche's hand and nibbled on his ear coquettishly before the happy couple exchanged vows in French.
Long misunderstood and maligned in Western popular culture, voodoo has become a spiritual anchor in New York City's vast Haitian community and in Haitian enclaves across the country as practitioners look for comfort after the devastating earthquake in the impoverished Caribbean nation last year. 
In New York, where there are roughly 300,000 people who were born in Haiti or are of Haitian descent -- the largest concentration in the United States -- richly painted basement voodoo temples are sprinkled around Harlem and in parts of Brooklyn and Queens. Mambos, or voodoo priestesses, say they can barely keep up with ''demann,'' or prayer requests; spiritual love recipes to lure recalcitrant lovers are the most popular. Voodoo prayer circles in which practitioners meet to commiserate have also proliferated, with a notable intensity in the months since the earthquake.
But the world of voodoo has fallen under an unwelcome spotlight in recent weeks as a result of two episodes in which the authorities say voodoo played a central role -- a fatal five-alarm fire in Brooklyn and the coming trial in Queens of a woman accused of severely burning her daughter.
The fire, in a building in Flatbush in February, was ignited by candles surrounding a bed during a ceremony in the apartment of a voodoo priest who the authorities said was hired by a woman to chase away evil spirits. The fire killed a 64-year-old woman in another apartment and left dozens of tenants homeless.
In Queens, a Haitian immigrant, Marie Lauradin, 29, is to go on trial this summer because prosecutors say she performed a voodoo exorcism ritual two years ago during which she lighted a flammable liquid in the form of a circle on a floor and placed her 6-year-old daughter, Frantzcia, within it, engulfing her in flames. Ms. Lauradin is charged with assault and endangering the welfare of a child.
The child's grandmother Sylvenie Thessier, 72, whom prosecutors accused of doing nothing while her granddaughter was burned, was sentenced last week to one to three years in prison after pleading guilty to reckless endangerment.
The episodes have shaken the tight-knit and largely secretive voodoo community in New York, and practitioners say they were aberrant acts perpetrated by ignorant people who were abusing the religion.
Dowoti Desir, a Haitian-American voodoo scholar who has a temple in her home in Harlem, said the episodes were contributing to the demonization of voodoo and forcing people to practice it underground.
''Voodoo practitioners are in the closet for fear of being hounded or suffering reprisals,'' she said. ''The truth is that voodoo has been a source of empowerment for generations of Haitians.'' (Many practitioners and scholars prefer alternate renderings of the word ''voodoo,'' like ''voudou'' or ''vodun,'' which they say more accurately reflect its origins.)
Some people are turning to voodoo in response to financial hardships caused by the recession. And among younger Haitian-Americans, voodoo is a means to reconnect with their roots.
Mr. Laroche, 35, nattily dressed for his marriage ceremony, said he had decided to exchange vows with his spirit bride in search of cultural affirmation, career advancement and protection from affliction, financial or otherwise. ''There is a misconception that if you practice voodoo you can turn your friends into goats,'' Mr. Laroche said. ''But voodoo is about getting back in touch with the past.''
In voodoo, a healing-based religion that was brought to Haiti by slaves from Western and Central Africa, followers commune with one God -- Gran Met -- by worshiping potent and sometimes temperamental lwas, or spirits, believed to hold sway over love, morality, reproduction and death.
According to scholars, up to half of all Haitians practice some form of voodoo, often in conjunction with Catholicism, which intermingled with the belief systems of enslaved West Africans when Haiti was a French colony.
Yet because the religion is often practiced furtively in basement temples, and because of its emphasis on spirits, spells and animal sacrifices, it has been stigmatized as primitive.
But scholars stress that voodoo has played a central role in Haitian history, sustaining people who have endured oppressive governments, grinding poverty and natural calamities.
Ms. Desir, a former professor in the Africana studies department at Brooklyn College, says voodoo has been vilified by Western culture going back to 1791, when a voodoo ceremony helped inspire slaves to rebel against their French colonial oppressors, sparking the Haitian Revolution.
Voodoo's reputation inside and outside Haiti also suffered during the regime of Francois Duvalier, known as Papa Doc, who ruled Haiti from 1957 to 1971 and whose ruthless security force, the Tonton Macoutes, misused the religion as a means of repression. Mr. Duvalier even modeled himself after the Baron Samedi, the voodoo spirit of death, affecting a low nasal voice and wearing dark sunglasses to hide his eyes and instill fear and devotion.
After last year's earthquake, some evangelical preachers, including Pat Robertson in the United States, said the catastrophe was related to Haiti's ''pact with the devil.''
There is no evidence that voodoo ceremonies have contributed in any notable way to fire trends in New York, according to the Fire Department. But Jim Long, a department spokesman, said it was worrisome when alcoholic substances were used for purposes like lighting fires. In many ceremonies, practitioners use rum or a flammable, lemon-scented perfume that can be bought for about $10.
Much as clergy members in other religions accept payments to perform rituals like marriages and baptisms, voodoo priests and priestesses typically charge for their services, in part to help pay for the expensive tastes of spirits like Freda, who favors offerings like pink Champagne, believers say. Prices can range from $300 for a recipe to infatuate a wary lover to $5,000 for a full-fledged exorcism in which evil spirits are transferred from humans to other animals, like pigs.
Mr. Laroche said he paid $10,000 for his marriage ceremony, a price he said was more than justified by the benefits the good will of the spirits would bring.
Ms. Desir said that aspiring voodoo priestesses and priests typically apprenticed with an experienced mentor and that it could take up to five years to master the botany, healing and drumming rituals of voodoo. In the absence of a governing body to regulate the religion, she said, profiteering by an unscrupulous few has made it vulnerable to fraud.
Edeline St. Armand, a mambo who built a voodoo temple in her basement in Canarsie, Brooklyn, said that when she arrived in the neighborhood more than 20 years ago, an Italian family living next door moved away after a few days. ''They were afraid and thought that Haitians are witches,'' Ms. St. Armand said.
Ms. St. Armand said voodoo rituals at her temple, Societe La Belle Venus II, were attracting hundreds of people from across the city, including Wall Street bankers seeking spells to guard against falling share prices and homemakers aggrieved about wayward husbands. She said that because the religion was focused on curing people physically and spiritually, some misguided people were turning to voodoo with the wrong intentions.
''I would never use voodoo to do harm or to kill a merger-and-acquisition deal,'' Ms. St. Armand said. ''I try and only use it to do good.'' She said she had recently helped a repentant convict seeking to overturn his drug-possession conviction, but immediately threw out someone who asked her for a spell to allow him to have unprotected sex.
For many practitioners, voodoo is a matter of cultural identity. Ms. Desir, 50, recalled that her Catholic mother had been aghast when, as a rebellious young adult living in Queens and studying anthropology at Barnard College, she also decided to study to become a mambo. ''I personally don't hide the fact that I am a voodoo priestess; it is a crown that I wear proudly,'' Ms. Desir said. ''My role is not to create love potions but to help reconnect with African culture.''
For Mr. Laroche, who came to New York when he was 5, voodoo is a tie to his family's home in Port-au-Prince. He sees no contradiction between wielding an iPhone and marrying a voodoo bride. During the marriage ceremony, Mr. Laroche said he planned to celebrate his nuptials with his girlfriend, who he said had little reason to be jealous. She had already married Ogou, a virile, cigar-smoking spirit who is said to provide strength and protection.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RESURGENCE: A Haitian woman in a voodoo ceremony in Brooklyn. (MB1)
ROOTS: For practitioners, voodoo is a source of cultural empowerment and a link to the past. Clockwise from top left: using cornmeal in a Brooklyn basement to draw a symbol as a beacon for spirits
singing and dancing at the same ceremony
 a woman who was said to be possessed at a spiritual wedding. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (85%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); FIRES (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); BURN INJURIES (66%); SENTENCING (61%); CHILD ABUSE (61%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (60%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



226 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; HEADS UP; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: A Renegade Market Opens

BYLINE: By BRENDAN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
IN the Bay Area, year-round farmers' markets and food co-ops are plentiful and well-established. Too well-established, it turns out, for a group of amateur chefs, foragers and home food purveyors in San Francisco. So the disparate crew founded a renegade market for vendors who lack the commercial kitchens and licenses needed to operate elsewhere. 
The monthly SF Underground Market (foragesf.com) is the brainchild of Iso Rabins, a restaurant worker turned urban forager and cook. The first market, held in a private home in December 2009, attracted seven vendors -- and an unexpected visit from the health department. This being San Francisco, though, instead of shutting them down, the official explained how they could get around the rules.
''She was really cool about it,'' Mr. Rabins recalled. ''She told us if we made it into a private event where people had to sign up to come, we could get around the commercial kitchen requirement.''
Since its debut the market has grown to 60-plus vendors and as many as 2,700 attendees at increasingly larger venues, including Public Works (publicsf.com), an event space in the Mission where the next market will be held on April 23.
To attend, visitors must sign up for a free membership at the market's Web site and fill out an online form stating that they understand products are not approved by the city health department. Admission is $5 and each outing starts with a day session focused on take-home foods like jam made from foraged plums and chocolate brownies laced with home-smoked bacon. The evening session is heavier on hot dishes, like hot dogs topped with homemade kimchi, and was recently expanded to include live bands and D.J.'s.
''The beauty of the market is that it brings together all these people who have unique food to sell but don't have the resources to start on their own,'' said Katie Kwan, a 26-year-old food blogger and former biotech consultant. She opened Kitchen Sidecar (www.kitchensidecar.com), a Vietnamese food cart, at the market, serving pork belly banh mi sandwiches. The market has also allowed her to connect with purveyors, from whom she gets herbs grown on a nearby Vietnamese produce farm, backyard chicken eggs for her mayonnaise, and even a 180-pound pig she recently roasted at the market.
As the increasingly less underground event continues to grow, organizers keep it fresh by ensuring that more than half of the vendors at each outing are new to the market.
''The new vendors are really the heart and soul of it,'' Mr. Rabins said. ''We try to rotate it so that each of our earlier vendors has a chance to come back. But actually many of them have gone on to produce on a larger scale and sell at other markets.''
Ms. Kwan, for example, recently opened a pop-up Vietnamese restaurant and now sells sandwiches at several other locations. Not that there's anything wrong with that, Mr. Rabins said.
''We don't have an iron fist about it,'' he added. ''We won't kick someone out just because they get certified.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sharing a bowl of noodles during the monthly SF Underground Market, a Bay Area event. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORK (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



227 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Get Rich Quick, but Make Sure It's Legal

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
AS our nation's economic blues wear on, many of us are looking for unconventional avenues to achieve the riches so tantalizingly out of reach. We've read the investment guides and watched the fast-money yammerers on television. But the big score still seems no closer than the prospect of winning the lottery.
The so-called experts will give you sensible and sadly obvious advice. Gold is overpriced. Don't buy anything that somebody pitches you over the phone. Beware of the new tech bubble in social networking companies. Banks think Facebook is worth $50 billion? Zynga, $10 billion? What's so valuable about making a tower of wooden blocks and pulling out one at a time? Oh, wait. That's Jenga. Completely different. 
Anyway, you can get advice from just about anywhere. But the fact that you are even reading this column means that you are a different kind of investor, a bolder one. One who, like me, is tuned into a different frequency -- the financial equivalent of XER, the old high-powered radio station on the Mexican border that Dr. John Brinkley would use to broadcast come-ons for his medical breakthrough of transplanting what have been euphemistically termed ''goat glands'' into men, to restore their virility.
So you're looking for the black swans of investing, the rare events and long shots that the truly bold can exploit to make their fortune. Scoff all you want, and cite Ralph Kramden and his get-rich-quick schemes. Remember his no-cal pizza? Nowadays, the freezer case is full of stuff that purports to come pretty close. Or his wallpaper that glows in the dark? Today, maybe it could save lots of energy -- perhaps as much as, say, running our cars on French-fry oil.
So who's laughing now?
Still, today's lesson is meant as a warning: As bold as you may want to be, you need to recognize that some kinds of asset-enhancement strategies might just cross a line.
Consider Kevin Provencher, an award-winning sportswriter formerly at The Union Leader in Manchester, N.H. Like a lot of other people in the troubled field of journalism, he took a pay cut because of his newspaper's problems. And, like a lot of those people, he tried to bridge the financial gap with what we call a Plan B. Unlike a lot of people in the troubled journalism field, however, his Plan B was becoming a pimp. Last month, Mr. Provencher pleaded guilty to charges related to prostitution and witness intimidation, and was sentenced to a couple of years in prison for his efforts.
See, you might have thought that such a scheme would work out perfectly. What could possibly go wrong with pursuing a side career managing prostitutes? But a legal defense and incarceration can ding your portfolio pretty badly, and reality has a way of catching up with us.
If law enforcement allegations are correct, it may be catching up, for example, with Providence Hogan, formerly treasurer of the PTA at an elementary school in the Cobble Hill neighborhood of Brooklyn. She has been indicted on allegations that she embezzled $100,000 from the PTA between 2006 and 2008. Investigators said that Ms. Hogan, the owner of the Providence Day Spa, used the money for fertility treatments and to support her business and pay the rent. A law enforcement official said she told investigators she took the money to ''keep her family living in the lifestyle they were accustomed to.'' She has pleaded not guilty.
Many families, too, are faced with ever-escalating college tuition, and some students are looking for daring ways to pay those bills. But if the accusations are correct, it would not be a good idea at all to follow the example of five Columbia University students arrested in December on drug charges. They are accused of selling some $11,000 worth of drugs to police in an investigation called Operation Ivy League, and each of the young men has pleaded not guilty. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, clearly a master of sly wit, said in the news release announcing the arrest, ''This is no way to work your way through college.''
It sounds obvious when you put it that way. But it's apparently necessary to stress that crime is harder than it looks. As the character played by Mickey Rourke explains in the 1981 film ''Body Heat,'' there are 50 ways to mess up any ''decent crime.''
''If you think of 25 of them, then you're a genius,'' he tells the character played by William Hurt, ''and you ain't no genius.''
Listen up, America! If prosecutors prove their case that even Ivy Leaguers have trouble making crime pay, what hope do the rest of us have?
So maybe you're taking all this to heart, and thinking, ''Well, then, what about out-and-out robbery?'' Again -- and this may come as a surprise -- even if you are really, really nice about it, robbery could well put you in prison. Gregory Paul Hess knocked over a Shell station in Seattle, but as he held a dangerous-looking pellet gun on the station's owner and took the cash, he said, ''I appreciate it and I really am sorry and if I ever get back on my feet again, sir, I'll bring it back.'' As much as all of us have been told that politeness counts, a judge this month handed him a five-year sentence for armed robbery.
Sigh. As dull as it sounds, folks like us are the ones who have to save prudently and invest carefully, and hope that it all works out. We don't get to break the rules and come out ahead.
What, you thought you were a banker?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL VASCONCELLOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); LOTTERIES (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); LITIGATION (65%); WITNESSES (64%); PROSTITUTION (62%); GUILTY PLEAS (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); SENTENCING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (52%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%) MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



228 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Teenage Pregnancy With MTV Stars as Exhibit A

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
DURING the impatient weeks between episodes of MTV's ''Teen Mom'' franchise, fans (nearly three million on Facebook alone) can still stay current with the girls' dramas.
They can linger over photographs from the wedding of Leah, 18, and Corey, 20, twins in tow (Us Weekly, April 4). They can follow the exploits of Jenelle, 19, whose mother has custody of her toddler, and who was videotaped beating up a girl (TMZ.com, March 25).
And they may be mighty curious about some of the girls' seemingly enhanced looks. A headline in the April 11 In Touch Weekly, quoting unidentified pals, warns: ''Teen Moms Addicted to Surgery.'' It said the girls are ''falling victim to the pressures of fame.''
Certainly MTV's so-called ''sister shows'' -- ''16 and Pregnant,'' as well as ''Teen Mom'' and ''Teen Mom 2,'' which follow some of the girls through early motherhood -- have received swipes for glamorizing teenage pregnancy, and conferring girls-gone-wild celebrity on their stars. 
But that is not how Megan Clark, who teaches family consumer sciences to high school students in a small Kansas town, regards the programs. They have become a popular element in her freshman life-skills classes, and in parenting courses for older students.
''They're sucked into the drama of it,'' Ms. Clark said, ''but they see that they don't ever want to be in that situation. I talk about abstinence first and foremost, but I listen to them, so I know they're not abstinent. So the show offers a good opportunity to teach them about condoms and birth control.''
With DVDs and episode discussion guides distributed by the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy, public-school health educators, church-group leaders, clinic nurses, social workers and parents are using the shows to prompt discussion about sex education, family and romantic relationships and shattered dreams.
In her classes, Ms. Clark notes how MTV's teenage mothers try to manage school, sick babies, sleep deprivation, rent, errant boyfriends and rearview glimpses of their carefree lives. ''Then I ask my students to make up a budget if they had to live on their own with a baby,'' she said.
Truly, parents, this is good news. ''The biggest debates are over how the girls disrespect their own parents,'' she said.
On last week's reunion special of ''Teen Mom 2,'' Dr. Drew Pinsky, hand holder to the reality-TV stars, raised that question with Jenelle and her mother, Barbara. The daughter had been videotaped shoving her mother and stealing her credit cards. Was Jenelle lovable? Dr. Pinsky asked. Teary-eyed, exhausted, Barbara replied dully, ''No.''
Ms. Clark said that in her class she asks students: ''How do you treat your own parents? If you were put in that situation, how would that affect your relationship with them?''
Ms. Clark and other educators say they have never been criticized for using the shows. (The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy has distributed 3,000 DVDs and guides to Boys and Girls Clubs of America chapters alone.) But she said that she didn't want to test limits by showing last December's episode, ''No Easy Decision.'' In that half-hour special, one teenager who has an infant becomes pregnant again. After much agonizing, she and her boyfriend chose abortion.
The MTV episodes, which went on the air in June 2009, show high school girls far along in unplanned pregnancies. Some are good students and pretty, popular cheerleaders; some are self-described party girls. Some come from financially comfortable, two-parent homes; others from homes riven by divorce, alcohol and severe economic stress.
Scenes can be tender, harrowing or headshaking. Relationships among relatives, between the couples, and with the girls' erstwhile friends change throughout dewy pregnancies, tested by dirty diapers. The third season of ''16 and Pregnant,'' with 10 new girls, begins April 19.
Despite the tabloid derision and paparazzi attention that are almost a necessary byproduct of reality TV shows, the impact extends far beyond their ratings triumphs. (The season finale of ''Teen Mom 2'' on March 29 drew 4.7 million viewers, and was the top-rated show that day in the 12 to 34 demographic.)
Last summer, in a national telephone poll of young people ages 12 to 19 commissioned by the National Campaign, 82 percent of those who had watched ''16 and Pregnant'' said the shows helped them understand the challenges of pregnancy and how to avoid it. Only 15 percent said the show glamorized pregnancy. In a study with Boys and Girls Clubs of America chapters in one Southern state, the campaign learned that after watching ''16 and Pregnant'' with a group leader, nearly half the teenagers talked to a parent about it.
As educators and parents note, it is easier to talk with a teenager about sex when the topic involves a television character.
This is true, to an extent. Rachel Siegel, 13, from Miami, has watched ''16 and Pregnant'' with her mother. ''My mom asks the same questions 50 times,'' Rachel said. ''The shows make it easier for her to talk about having my own sex life and my own body, but it's still a little weird for me to talk to her about it.''
On Tuesday nights at the Bridger Clinic, a reproductive health center in Bozeman, Mont., Cindy Ballew trains high school students to become peer educators who visit middle and high school classes to discuss pregnancy prevention and relationships. Ms. Ballew's sessions usually begin with an MTV episode.
To focus her students, she asks: ''What did you see that you thought was a healthy decision? What did you see that was not?''
When students deplore the waywardness of the boyfriends, who almost all disappear in some fashion, Ms. Ballew responds: ''We discuss why so many men can't step up. How challenging it must feel to them. I say: 'Can you imagine that maybe he's depressed? And that's why he never works or helps with the baby?' Each episode has teachable moments.''
Maren Studer, 18, was one of those watching the shows in Ms. Ballew's sessions. ''I learned that some teens are better at handling the challenges of pregnancy and parenting than others,'' Ms. Studer said. ''Even though Catelynn and Tyler are the least dramatic and entertaining of the couples, I appreciate what they did by placing their baby for adoption.''
Although the shows are perceived as cautionary tales for girls, Stacy Wright, of Kansas City, Mo., watches them with her older sons, one a high school freshman, the other a junior. Referring to one episode, Mrs. Wright told them: ''Here's a boy who thought the girl was taking care of the birth control and he wouldn't have to deal with it. Sorry, but you can't trust them. Drive defensively.''
The United States has the highest teenage birth rate among the fully industrialized countries, although that number has slowly declined over the last 20 years. Even so, in 2009, 410,000 teenagers, ages 15 to 19, gave birth -- or 1,100 a day.
The economy is a major factor in the recent decline. But educators speculate that ''16 and Pregnant'' may be giving teenagers pause as well.
''There is no question that these shows are affecting the conversation about teen pregnancy and teen motherhood,'' said Sarah Brown, chief executive of the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy. ''This generation of teens is very oriented to reality shows in general. They seek them and they believe them. These shows resonate powerfully.''
In the right setting, an episode may not even need a discussion guide. When patients have an appointment with the nurse at the teenage reproductive health center in Rome, Ga., Angela Robinson, the center's program coordinator, may show episodes in the waiting room. ''The kids will tell the nurse, 'I sure don't want to be like the girl on MTV!' '' Ms. Robinson said. '' 'I want something that's effective.' ''
A social worker, who did not want to be identified to protect her job, said that she shows the episodes to groups of violent teenagers in a West Coast juvenile detention center. Sometimes the girls are pregnant or already have babies. Often the boys are fathers. ''The kids have many questions that we can answer,'' the social worker wrote in an e-mail. ''Discussions have included child development, taking care of a newborn, how the teenagers acted in the episode. Other educational material is too outdated, too advanced for their level. The kids are highly receptive and attentive to this show.''
Among professionals who work with teenagers about pregnancy prevention, the shows prompt criticism and qualified admiration. Dr. Sari Locker, a sex educator who teaches adolescent psychology at Columbia, said, ''They show the hardships of teen pregnancy and raising a baby, but they don't provide more meaningful sex education that might help them prevent that pregnancy, have a positive body image and negotiate dating.''
Last week, a documentary, ''Let's Talk About Sex,'' that made its debut on TLC explored the contradiction for American teenagers living in a highly sexualized culture, but one with poor access to realistic sex education.
Earlier this month in San Francisco at Sex::Tech, a conference on technology and sex education, the MTV shows' executive producers, Morgan J. Freeman and Dia Sokol Savage, were peppered with questions about casting, compensation and race.
Most teenagers in the shows have been white. The producers said that the new season is more diverse. They would not disclose compensation for the girls, but said that reports of six figures are wildly exaggerated. Casting is challenging, they said. They look for girls who want to share their stories to caution others. But producers must also obtain agreements from prime participants, including parents, boyfriends and medical personnel.
Deb Levine, the executive director of ISIS Inc, a sex health education program that sponsored the conference, said that the MTV shows impressed even veteran sex educators. ''All day long, that's all everyone was talking about,'' she said, ''how sex education has to intersect with popular culture.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE IMPACT: Maci and her son, Bentley, from the MTV show ''Teen Mom'' in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MTV)(ST1)
FAME: Us Weekly featured a ''Teen Mom 2'' couple.
FROM CLINIC TO HOME: In Bozeman, Mont., Cindy Ballew, above left, teaches with MTV shows. In Kansas City, Stacy Wright talks with sons, Trevor and Jared. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANIE OSBORNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); SEX EDUCATION (88%); PARENTING SUPPORT (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); CONTRACEPTION (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); PARENTING (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); NURSES & NURSING (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (72%); MISSOURI, USA (69%); KANSAS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: Teen Mom (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



229 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1821 words

HEADLINE: Stock Pickers Are No Longer the Stars

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
IT'S an old Wall Street pitch: Trust us, we're experts.
The notion that it takes a pro to pick stocks has made a lot of money for the United States mutual fund industry -- $46.9 billion on stock funds alone last year.
Yet, on average, investors who bought and held many of those equity funds barely beat the broad stock market during the past decade. Many of them would have done better by owning low-cost index funds.
Yes, stock pickers like Bill Nygren of the Oakmark Fund, Christopher Davis of Davis Advisors and Bruce Berkowitz of the Fairholme Fund have bested the market year after year, with only occasional missteps. And, yes, the past 10 years were rough for pretty much everyone. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index returned just 1.4 percent, annualized, from Dec. 31, 2000, to Dec. 31, 2010. 
But what that painful run exposed -- again -- is that many professional stock pickers aren't great at picking stocks. Actively managed funds, meaning ones that actually select stocks, charge relatively high fees. Yet fewer than half of the active funds that invest in the most valuable American companies -- that is, those with large market capitalizations -- beat the market during the past decade. The average large-cap United States stock fund returned 1.73 percent, annualized, during that period, according to Morningstar.
That marquee-name funds often stumble isn't news. But even some insiders now say that their industry has not delivered as expected. Millions of baby boomers now confront a yawning gap between when and how they thought they would retire and when and how they actually will retire.
''The industry stinks,'' says Robert L. Rodriguez, the chief executive of First Pacific Advisors, whose FPA Capital fund declined 34 percent in 2008, but rebounded by 53 percent in 2009 and 24 percent last year.
Disillusioned investors are leaving some fund families that were once considered paragons of lifetime investing. Investors have withdrawn billions of dollars from domestic stock market mutual funds for four consecutive years. And they have shifted hundreds of billions of dollars out of actively managed stock funds, which last year charged fees averaging 97 cents for every $100 invested on an asset-weighted basis, and put more into index funds, which charged an average of just 16 cents per $100.
Index funds, of course, don't try to beat the market. They basically are the market, as defined by a certain index, like the S.& P. 500 or some sector benchmark. These funds, which are known as passive, rather than active, investments, today account for 23 percent of the $6.3 trillion invested in stock mutual funds. That is up from 10.5 percent a decade ago, according to the Investment Company Institute, the fund industry trade group.
''People have been let down by their heroes.'' said Don Phillips, president for fund research at Morningstar. ''They don't believe any more.'' Yet even as people embrace index funds, many are also experimenting with riskier -- but potentially more lucrative -- active funds, he said.
CONSIDER Jerry Verseput, a former engineer at Intel who is now an independent financial adviser in Eldorado Hills, Calif. He had worried for years that many equity funds seemed to move in lock step. He was shocked when his own mutual fund investments plunged in 2007 and 2008, when the financial crisis struck. He figured that the pros would have seen the trouble coming and protected his nest egg. Wrong. So he took control by putting $500,000 of his personal fund investments into exchange-traded funds, a fast-growing breed of index funds that can be bought and sold like stocks.
As Mr. Verseput altered his own investing strategy, he also shifted the $22 million of investments that he manages for 70 clients, many of them Intel employees, to exchange-traded funds from active funds. ''I was able to sleep better at night,'' he said.
Despite its often lackluster performance, the mutual fund industry remains lucrative and powerful. It is the bedrock of many people's retirement plans: individual retirement accounts or employer-sponsored defined-contribution plans provide nearly $4.5 trillion of the industry's $12.1 trillion in assets under management.
And the industry's reach may soon grow if lawmakers and regulators in several states facing shortfalls in public employee pension funds move into 401(k)-type retirement savings plans.
The industry has given investors a dizzying array of more than 7,600 mutual funds from which to choose. But by last July, about half of the investors who put money into United States equity funds over the preceding 10 years were sitting on losses of more than 20 percent, according to an analysis of market performance and investor flows by Trim Tabs, a research company.
Since last August, as the stock market has rallied, many funds have moved back into positive territory. That gain can be explained by dividend income from shares held in funds and has little to do with stock appreciation, Trim Tabs says.
The Investment Company Institute challenges Trim Tabs' conclusions and aspects of the method behind its calculations, saying it makes assumptions that do not accurately reflect the behavior of the average investor.
The losses over the years, of course, are not all the funds' fault. Investors are often their own worst enemies. Many people tend to jump in and out of funds at precisely the wrong moments.
But the industry has enabled this behavior by minting new funds to attract investor dollars.
Critics of the industry argue that many fund companies are more focused on gathering assets than on managing them. For funds, one incentive is clear: more assets mean more fees. Fund managers charge investors a percentage of the assets they have under management.
Critics point to the industry's penchant for introducing funds that attract investors chasing red-hot markets -- though often just before these markets turn down. In 2000, at the height of the dot-com boom, mutual fund companies created 84 funds focused on technology stocks. Subsequently, the tech bubble burst.
Throughout 2010, the mutual fund industry marketed bond funds and attracted about $251 billion into them. But that inflow occurred even as interest rates had already fallen close to zero and many economists were forecasting a decline in the bond market. In fact, prices have fallen since late last year.
Similarly last year, American investors plowed $57 billion into mutual funds investing in overseas equity markets. Since November, however, those markets have been volatile.
And after eight consecutive months of withdrawals from United States equity funds, investors jumped back in recently, adding about $21 billion in January and February. Of course, by then, the market had been rallying for months.
Investors' moves out of active funds have had startling effects on the industry. Several once-dominant fund companies have lost billions of dollars in assets under management.
Putnam Investments, the fourth-largest mutual fund company in 2000, has lost nearly three-quarters of its assets, or about $200 billion, in the past decade, through weak market performance and investor withdrawals. Janus Capital, another firm that enjoyed a high profile a decade ago, has lost nearly half of its assets, or $100 billion.
Even the giant Fidelity Investments was unseated last year for the first time in two decades as the nation's largest mutual fund family. It was surpassed by Vanguard, which is known for index funds and had $1.4 trillion in assets under management.
''People gave up on beating the market,'' said Loren Fox, a senior analyst at Strategic Insight, a research and data company in New York. ''Investors said to themselves, 'It's so hard to beat the S.& P. 500, so I am just going to own the S.& P. 500.' ''
James Aber, a spokesman for Janus, said Janus learned valuable lessons in the bear market in the start of the past decade. ''We believe we've become a better firm because of it,'' he said. ''We've enhanced our valuation discipline, implemented better risk controls, and we now have a larger and more experienced research team.''
Like Janus, Putnam grew quickly during the tech stock boom, roughly doubling in size between 1999 and 2000, according to Putnam's chief executive, Robert L. Reynolds. When the collapse came, fund companies that were heavily invested in technology and telecommunications stocks were hit hard, he said.
Mr. Reynolds said investors haven't abandoned actively managed funds. ''Everything we see from clients says there's still tremendous demand for actively managed funds, which give investors the ability to outperform the markets,'' he said.
Brian Reid, the Investment Company Institute's chief economist, said that while some money had left United States stock market mutual funds, outflows from August 2007 to December 2010 amounted to only 7 percent of total assets in them. That means 93 percent of assets remained.
Mr. Reid said that there was a growing preference among investors for index funds, but that this shift probably had more to do with low costs than with other funds' poor performance.
He said that while index funds were cheaper than active funds, that fact overlooked extra charges passed on by financial advisers to clients for actively managing the mix of the various index funds in their portfolios.
''I don't believe that most people today believe in true passive management,'' he said. ''They want active management, just active management of index funds. That is an important shift.''
Nevertheless, it is a steep fall from grace for the mutual fund industry, which was once the darling of investors and introduced many people to the markets and the idea of investing in stocks.
Although the first mutual funds were created in the mid-1920s, the industry heyday began in the 1970s with the introduction of I.R.A.'s and employer-sponsored 401(k) defined-contribution retirement plans. By 1980, about 4.6 million United States households invested in mutual funds; today, some 51 million households do, or nearly 44 percent of the country.
FOR much of the 1980s and 1990s, as the market boomed, so did investor flows into mutual funds. It was the era of the star stock picker, as Peter Lynch of Fidelity and Michael Price of the Mutual Series posted eye-popping returns and developed rock-star cult status among investors.
As the tech boom turbo-charged stocks in the mid-1990s, a new generation of aggressive stock celebrities and fund companies emerged, and investors flocked to them.
'' 'Hot' managers were treated like Hollywood stars and marketed in the same fashion,'' said John C. Bogle, founder of the Vanguard Group, in a speech in January at the American Museum of Finance on Wall Street.
Mr. Bogle, long a critic of active fund management, used the speech to chide the industry. ''As the inevitable reversion to the mean in fund performance came into play,'' he said, ''these stars proved more akin to comets.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Changing Style: In the last four years, investors have been pulling money out of stock funds while putting it into bond funds . . .and they have increasingly embraced index funds, which mimic sectors of the stock market as opposed to actively picking stocks. (CHARTS BY Source: Investment Company Institute)(BU22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); FARM LABOR (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); INDEX FUNDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: FIRST PACIFIC ADVISORS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



230 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: At Opposite Ends of Africa, Fear and Confidence in Markets

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
PROTESTERS thronged the streets in capital after capital in the Arab world in the first quarter of 2011. Governments toppled, and NATO planes thundered in the skies above Libya. The upheaval rattled stock markets throughout North Africa and the Middle East and led to a nearly two-month suspension of trading on the Egyptian stock exchange.
The crises, particularly the one in Egypt, resulted in losses for some stock mutual funds and exchange-traded funds that specialize in the region. The T. Rowe Price Africa and Middle East fund dropped 6.2 percent, for example, while the PowerShares MENA (Middle East and North Africa) Frontier Countries Portfolio E.T.F. from Invesco fell 8 percent and the Van Eck Market Vectors Egypt Index E.T.F. -- the sole Egypt-only offering -- slid almost 20 percent; it closed to new money amid the crisis but reopened on March 23. 
Stock funds that specialize in investing in less-developed countries had received strong inflows of cash since the developed world's financial crisis in 2008. But the turmoil in the Middle East, which spread as hot and fast as lava, has underscored the risks of investing in these locales, and it has left investors to fret about the near-term prospects of the region.
Skittishness was the initial investor response, with money sluicing out of emerging- and frontier-market stock funds. Stock indexes count most of the markets in the Middle East and Africa as frontier markets -- that is, the least-developed sort -- though they typically rank Egypt, South Africa and a handful of others as more mature emerging markets.
For the last several years, both emerging and frontier funds enjoyed inflows, with the total amount invested in both categories increasing by more than 20 percent, said Brad Durham, managing director of EPFR Global in Cambridge, Mass. That trend reversed in mid-February, when money started exiting both sorts of funds, he said.
Still, while Africa and the Middle East have lately drawn greater interest from mutual fund investors, they represent only a sliver of overall investment, said Gregg Wolper, an analyst at Morningstar. ''Frontier funds get a lot of attention but not that much money,'' he said. ''And the emerging-market funds don't have that much money in Egypt for the most part.'' The country's companies account for only about 1 percent of MSCI's Emerging Markets Index.
Some portfolio managers who follow emerging and frontier markets have watched the recent events with cautious optimism. The consensus is that less-experienced investors will shun Africa and the Middle East in the short term, depressing stock values, but that this may present longer-term opportunities for more patient prospectors.
''Some people are going to sell indiscriminately,'' said Larry Seruma, manager of the Nile Pan Africa fund. ''And I don't think the uncertainty will be resolved in the next six months.''
When fear dissipates, the potential for good returns should rebound. ''I've been doing emerging-markets investing for 20 years,'' said Donald E. Elefson, co-lead portfolio manager of the Harding Loevner Frontier Emerging Markets fund. ''I've seen the Brazilian crisis, the Mexican crisis, the Russian crisis and the Asian crisis. They all pass. If you seek out quality companies -- strong balance sheets, good management -- those companies will survive. The only issue is how much underperformance you'll have while waiting.''
At least a few fund managers see the crisis as evidence that South Africa, not Egypt, should be central to any investing strategy that emphasizes Africa and the Middle East. Until the recent upheaval, Egypt's economic promise may have overshadowed its risks.
''It's always tempting when you see good growth, a big population and apparent stability,'' said Wim-Hein Pals, head of emerging markets equities at Robeco, a money management and mutual fund company in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, that oversees more than $200 billion. ''You were tempted to jump on the Egypt bandwagon in 2008 or 2009. Egypt was attractively valued then. But the political angle could always be a reason for that valuation discount.''
He drew a parallel to Russia.
''Russia is very cheap in terms of stock prices, but the Kremlin is a black box for an outsider,'' he said. ''We've looked at Russia for decades, and still the Kremlin is a great mystery to us. So Russia deserves a discount. And Egypt is the same -- it deserves its discount.''
South Africa, by contrast, is sometimes overlooked because of problems like a high incidence of AIDS and crime. But from an investing perspective, those may be dwarfed by its advantages. ''It's the largest economy on the continent and a vibrant democracy, unusual for Africa,'' said David A. Nadel, a manager of the Royce Global Value fund. ''You have independent corporate boards, Anglo-Saxon legal standards and good dividend policies.''
It is home to dozens of public companies, many with long histories and operations reaching throughout sub-Saharan Africa. ''It's a deep market with a lot of liquidity,'' said Mr. Pals of Robeco. ''The companies are very well managed -- you have first-tier management in a developing country.''
South African stocks accounted for about 14 percent of the T. Rowe Price Africa and Middle East fund at the end of February, and the fund's manager, Joseph Rohm, was lately stocking up on shares of Shoprite Holdings, a retailer based on the Western Cape that has stores in 16 African countries. The fund also holds a stake in Naspers, a media conglomerate based in Cape Town with properties in Africa, Asia, Europe and South America.
''South Africa is a political miracle, and it's been interesting for me to see how the problems in North Africa have heightened the government's focus on the need to create jobs,'' Mr. Rohm said, adding that there is huge spending on job creation in its new budget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A store in Livingstone, Zambia, is owned by Shoprite Holdings. Shoprite is based in South Africa, which some advisers see as a vibrant emerging market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHOPRITE GROUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%)

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EGYPT (97%); AFRICA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZAMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



231 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: A Coincidence? Or Something Else?

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Some towns and counties have cancer clusters. Others have high rates of traffic fatalities or foreclosures. In New York, Long Island has been grappling with its own disturbing demographic: Three serial killers who targeted the same type of victims have operated in the same tidy suburbs in the span of 22 years.
Since 1989, when the first victim was killed, the three have been active in Long Island's two counties -- Suffolk and Nassau -- in apparently unrelated cases. Joel Rifkin, a 34-year-old unemployed landscaper from East Meadow, confessed to killing 17 women he said were prostitutes following his arrest in 1993. Robert Shulman, a 42-year-old postal worker from Hicksville, was convicted of killing five prostitutes after he was arrested in 1996. The third killer has yet to be apprehended, but the police know that he or she exists: the bodies of eight people -- at least four of them female prostitutes -- have been found in the thick brush near a Suffolk County beach since December. 
It is a phenomenon that, though rare, has occurred elsewhere. Beginning in the early 1980s, at least five serial killers terrorized the South Los Angeles area, including Lonnie Franklin Jr., whom the police accused of being the so-called Grim Sleeper (he took a hiatus from 1988 to 2002).
Serial-killer experts and others offered a host of theories for the cluster phenomenon. Several said it was a fluke of geography. Still others said it was, in a sense, an illusion: Other cities and regions could have just as many or even more serial killers in their midst, but their patterns have not yet been detected by the police.
Scott Bonn, a serial-killer researcher and assistant professor of sociology at Drew University in New Jersey, said the explanation was simple. Because serial killers often prefer to live in densely populated areas -- for easy access to potential victims -- it is not a surprise that three of them who specialized in sex workers had turned up over two decades in a place with a population of 2.8 million. ''The odds that you would have these three guys in rural Mississippi in that time period are far less likely than in a densely populated area like Long Island,'' he said.
Fred Klein, the former Nassau County assistant district attorney who prosecuted Mr. Rifkin, said the frequency of Long Island's serial killers was ''just an anomaly.'' The Rifkin and Shulman cases, it turns out, shared strange coincidences: Mr. Rifkin and Mr. Shulman lived a few miles from one another, and they committed some of their murders at the same time, though they did not appear to know one another.
Vernon J. Geberth, an author and former New York Police Department homicide commander who has analyzed more than 300 serial killings in the United States, said popular culture, not the locale, was to blame.
''I don't think it's strange at all,'' Mr. Geberth said. ''I think that people fail to realize that we have more serial murders today than ever before. We've taken the most reprehensible members of society and given them star status. We've raised a generation of psychopaths. As a result, we have an increase in serial murder.''
Long Island's latest serial killer could have been not the third but the fourth in recent years, if the definition of ''serial killer'' was looser. In 1990, Allen Gormely, 37, a carpenter, confessed to killing prostitutes. Several experts define the serial killer as someone who kills three or more people on different occasions. Mr. Gormely was convicted of killing only two.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Search: Police officers on Long Island canvass a beach where remains were recently found. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (90%); MURDER (90%); PROSTITUTION (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (89%); CANCER (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (70%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (70%); POLICE FORCES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



232 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Commodities' Success Brings Calls for Caution

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
A PERFECTLY unfortunate combination of circumstances has been underpinning the global commodity markets. High fiscal deficits in the West and accelerating demand in emerging economies have created the sort of inflationary backdrop in which commodities thrive, as have out-of-the-blue events like political instability in the Middle East and in North Africa, snow in the American Plains and a cyclone in Australia.
Such unsettling developments may make the world a more worrisome place, but they are paying off handsomely for investors in commodity-related mutual funds. The four types tracked by Morningstar -- diversified commodity, natural resources, equity energy and equity precious metals -- show the best gains among the firm's 84 fund categories for the 12 months through March, each rising more than 30 percent.
Performance was patchy in the first quarter, however, ranging from a 13.8 percent gain for equity energy to a loss of 2.5 percent for precious-metals funds. There is an excellent case for owning commodities for the long haul, some investment advisers say, but they also express concern about the near future. Conditions seem too good to be true for these markets, they caution, so it's better not to chase the current rally and to wait for the next one instead. 
''There are a lot of things going on here,'' said Robert Arnott, manager of the Pimco All Asset fund, a portfolio that holds other Pimco funds, including two specializing in commodities. ''There's geopolitical instability and fear of inflation exacerbated by quantitative easing, which people know can't fail to produce inflation eventually. Investors are diversifying away from stocks and bonds, which are both rather expensive.'' Quantitative easing is the Federal Reserve program to stimulate economic growth by buying Treasury securities and other assets.
The many reasons to buy commodities add up to a strong reason to resist the urge, in Mr. Arnott's view. ''Of course, the time to buy something is when it's out of favor, not when it's wildly popular,'' he said. ''Commodities broadly have soared so far, so fast, that it's time to hold back.''
That popularity may be greater than even the very benign fundamental conditions warrant. Tim Guinness, manager of the Guinness Atkinson Global Energy fund, attributed nearly $40 of the recent $122-a-barrel price of Brent crude oil, the grade traded most on the open market, to ''politics and sentiment and scaremongering,'' and said that the fair value was around $85.
David W. Rolley, co-manager of the Loomis Sayles Global Markets fund, a world allocation portfolio that can invest in any broad asset class, including commodities, offered another reason for circumspection: The limited size of commodity markets makes them more susceptible to big swings than stocks or bonds.
''Commodity markets are relatively small,'' he said. ''They can't accept trillions of dollars of investment capital. There's an investment desire by people that doesn't fit. It means every one of these trades is crowded. You can get 20 to 30 percent moves up or down.''
Although Mr. Rolley said he ''wouldn't use the word 'bubble' yet,'' he warned that any development that brings the sustainability of the global economic recovery into question could make these trades uncrowded in a hurry. That would be ''perceived as very bearish for commodities and commodity funds,'' he said.
But if a market top is at hand for this cycle, it would belie what Mr. Rolley sees as a much longer trend toward higher commodity prices. ''We have a lot of confidence that the growth rate in domestic demand in emerging markets is going to be stronger for a long time,'' he said. Those markets, he added, ''are pretty commodity-intensive.''
Mr. Arnott similarly envisions ''a long-horizon, bigger trend,'' but says he believes that it will result less from positive developments in emerging economies than from negative ones closer to home. ''The entire developed world is awash in debt-financed consumption,'' he said. ''The urge to get out of debt by debasing currencies is going to be overwhelming in some countries, so inflation is going to be in the picture for years.''
Investors interested in owning commodities must select which ones to buy and in what form. The two broad choices for that are physical commodities, held directly or through futures contracts or exchange-traded funds, and stocks of businesses that produce them. Investment advisers argue for an eclectic approach to both decisions.
''If you're trying to put together a basket of commodities or other investments to hedge against inflation, I would have physical gold and energy shares,'' Mr. Guinness said. ''I would buy gold and put it under my bed,'' he added. ''You can't do that with oil.''
As he sees the situation, energy stocks are less cumbersome than the physical materials, and also cheaper. That could make them a good value, even if the price of crude oil retreats from its recent advance.
''In my view, energy equity prices bake in a $60 price'' for oil prices, he said, ''and oil is definitely going to average more than that in the next five or 10 years.''
FRED STURM, manager of the Ivy Global Natural Resources fund, says he thinks that stocks now make better investments than the related physical materials in many commodity markets. In fact, he would prefer that commodity prices hit the brakes, to reduce the risk of putting a drag on global growth.
Mr. Sturm especially likes companies that drill wells and perform other energy-production services, as well as producers of coal whose customer bases are in emerging economies.
''We have reallocated in favor of energy and away from most other materials,'' he said. ''It's not unusual based on past business cycles to see a fast outperformance phase from the materials-resource sector and then have energy sectors outperform for a subsequent period.''
Mr. Arnott emphasizes diversification across different types of commodities.
''When investors start to cherry-pick individual commodities, they're going to get it wrong,'' he said. He suggested that long-term investors ease in with a dollar-cost-averaging strategy -- investing the same dollar amount each quarter. But he wouldn't be in a hurry to start.
''You can have cyclical bear markets within bull markets, and with valuations stretched there is a risk of that,'' he warned. ''Commodities could be priced lower a year from now. One- to three-year swings can be big swings.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A coal mining operation in Siberia. One fund manager says shares of coal producers whose customer bases are in emerging economies could fare well. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREY RUDAKOV/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (91%); AUSTRALIA (91%); NORTHERN AFRICA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



233 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Beaten-Down Munis May Offer Some Bargains

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
BARGAIN hunters have swooped in to strengthen the municipal bond market after a major skid between mid-November and mid-January. But specialists say they think the prospects are still bright for income-seeking investors.
''This is the cheapest high-quality fixed-income asset sector out there today,'' said Christopher W. Alwine, director of the municipal bond group at Vanguard.
Because munis are generally exempt from federal taxes, and often from state taxes, they can be attractive even when their yields are lower than those of taxable bonds. But at the end of the first quarter, most yields equaled or exceeded those for taxable Treasuries of comparable maturity, a highly unusual situation. 
For example, a double-A rated, 5 percent sewer revenue bond of Allegheny County, Pa., due in 2020 recently traded at a price to yield a tax-free 5 1/8 percent; that's equivalent to a taxable 7.1 percent for someone in the 28 percent bracket and 7.9 percent for one in the 35 percent bracket. That compares with a taxable yield of 3 1/2 percent for a Treasury bond of similar maturity, albeit a notch higher quality.
Several factors converged recently to cause an exodus from municipal bonds, and a subsequent buying opportunity. One was the federal legislation extending income tax cuts, which made tax-free bonds less appealing. Another was a flood of new issues in anticipation of the Dec. 31 end of the government-subsidized Build America Bonds program. And a third factor was a rating downgrade of bonds backed by revenue from legal settlements with tobacco companies.
Then there were all the news-media accounts of state budget crises, and fears that some governments might default on their bonds because of public employee pension obligations. In January, Meredith Whitney, an independent analyst, predicted muni bond defaults totaling ''hundreds of billions of dollars.''
For 21 consecutive weeks, investors have cashed in more shares of municipal bond funds than they have bought, in many cases a seemingly knee-jerk response to headlines about public-sector financial distress.
And worries about repayments continue, even though defaults last year were only one-third the average from 2008-2009.
''Continued media attention has led many investors to be concerned about the prospects for municipal bonds,'' stated a first-quarter Vanguard analysis titled ''California Is Not Greece.''
''We believe the doomsday headlines overreach reality,'' it said. ''The expectation of systemic defaults among state and local government is hyperbole.''
This is the predominant industry view, with specialists pointing to a historically minuscule default rate among municipal issuers.
''I can't think of a single general obligation bond issue that's failed to pay principal and interest in the last 50 years,'' said Wilson White, whose New York firm specializes in muni bond matters.
Bond issuers' debt burdens appear low enough that their taxpayers should be able to support them with their personal income and property taxes, specialists said. They also note that tax receipts are now on the upswing and that municipals have relatively long average maturities.
In addition, a default carries enormous stigma and penalties. ''Choosing not to make debt service payments would typically have a minimal economic benefit to the bond issuer over the short run but would have devastating long-term results by making future financings extremely difficult,'' according to the Vanguard report, written by Mr. Alwine and two colleagues.
Rising interest rates, which tend to depress bond prices, remain a worry. Some advisers are leaning more toward individual bonds rather than mutual funds to avoid losses of portfolio principal if one should have to sell. ''There is no fixed maturity date'' with funds, noted James A. Klotz, president of FMSbonds, a municipal bond dealer in Boca Raton, Fla., meaning that fund investors have no option of holding bonds until they come due and thus obtain full payment.
But for adequate diversification, you need an array of issuers and maturities. Unless you have a few hundred thousand dollars to invest, Mr. White advised, you may wish to stick with funds. But if you have that much money or more at your disposal, he added, ''Then you can start picking your own.''
You might also consider exchange-traded funds, which are generally diversified and have low fees and excellent liquidity. One popular E.T.F. is the $1.95 billion iShares S.& P. National AMT-Free Municipal Bond fund, with 1,200 holdings of mostly high quality. Some 42 percent of the holdings have maturities of 5 to 10 years, and its annual expenses are one-quarter of 1 percent. (The biggest concentrations of issues are in California, at 23.3 percent, and New York, at 18.1 percent.)
AS with any investment, of course, homework is essential. Check bond ratings and keep an eye peeled for threats to any borrower's ability to service its debt -- a large factory closing in a small city, for example.
Mitchel Schlesinger, managing director of FBB Capital Partners, an investment adviser in Bethesda, Md., said he would avoid even some general obligation bonds, backed by theoretically unlimited taxing power, if those bonds are from distressed areas. Although inflation is an enemy of bonds in general, bonds financing projects supported by dedicated revenue, like those for sewers or bridges, can benefit from it. That's because utility rates or tolls may be easier to increase than property or income taxes.
And while these so-called revenue bonds have traditionally tended to be somewhat less secure than general obligation bonds backed by taxing power, many professionals have begun to favor them, at least those of high quality.
''We do have a preference for essential-service revenues,'' which are immune to political processes, said Mr. Alwine, whose $28 billion Vanguard Intermediate Term Tax-Exempt bond fund is the industry's largest.
Looking at the overall environment, Mr. White concluded that ''it's a wonderful time to buy munis.''
''Embrace the headline risk'' of battles between public employees and budget-cutting governments, he said. ''That's where you find reward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: City workers rally in Los Angeles in 2009. Budget woes in state and local governments nationwide have jolted muni bond markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); TAX LAW (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (62%)

PERSON: MEREDITH WHITNEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



234 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Gasps From the Grandstand After the Invoice Arrives

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Sticker shock keeps getting worse for some sports fans.
Out of nowhere, in recent weeks, my personal e-mail received unsolicited cries from the heart from friends who are longtime ticket-holders -- the loyal of the loyal. At least in Gouge City, some fans are being billed for 100 percent increases or more just to hold on to the same seats they have had for a decade or three.
With the N.F.L. and the N.B.A. possibly going dark next fall, teams maintain or raise prices, catering to corporate interests, thereby driving out real fans -- to pacify those greedy unionized players, the owners will undoubtedly say.
The cost of tickets often staggers me. I work at sports events and never receive free tickets, but last year, I arranged to buy a ticket to the Kentucky Derby for my wife. It poured that day, and she did not leave the hotel, and I never had the courage to tell her how much that rather dismal seat cost -- $250, as I recall. In my line of work, that's a lot of money. 
According to one national survey, ticket prices in four traditional American professional sports rose from 0.7 percent (N.B.A.) to 5.3 percent (N.F.L.) in the past five years, which included a recession, but some of the recent increases in New York are staggering.
As the surprising wave of groans added up, I began asking friends, ''You pay what?'' They are re-evaluating whether to keep their seats. I am not using names because teams can be vindictive about patrons who complain. I could tell you stories.
Ranger is reeling. When Messier and the lads skated around with the Stanley Cup in the antic spring of '94, my friend was paying $50 a seat. The price reached triple digits three seasons later, and at the moment, he is paying $240 a ticket for the same terrific view (without the Cup, one might add). The other day, my friend received ''an invoice without explanation,'' as he put it, containing prices for next season -- $715 a ticket. He says the Garden is writing off its longtime fans in favor of corporate patrons.
''In the end, it's pretty evident that the Garden cares less whether we purchase the tickets as long as someone does,'' my friend wrote. ''That's plain to see in my section, where very few of the old guard are left, as they've been swept away like a Lundqvist clear. Like Seventh Avenue, loyalty is not a two-way street in this neighborhood.''
He took his firstborn to her first game; the seats are a family tradition. He will probably not renew them.
Giant is suffering. Ticket prices are essentially the same for the third straight year, but in a fairly stagnant economy, he pays $1,200 for each of three season tickets for 10 home games, and $250 for season parking. That doesn't include the apparently legal banditry of the personal seat licenses, which cost $5,000 apiece. He thinks the tickets cost $9 each for the first home game at Giants Stadium in 1976. No P.S.L.'s back then. The good old days.
''The thing that burns most fans the most (in football) is paying for preseason games and parking,'' he wrote, alluding to charging regular-season prices to watch players who will be security guards by Sept. 1. The cost of those two stickup games -- if he goes to them -- is more than $800.
''I can buy a huge HDTV for well less than the cost of one season,'' he continued, ''and never have to leave the comfort of my home. Forget driving, parking and a $9 beer.'' He added: ''Then again, the thrill of being there (and sweating, and freezing, and hearing the cursing, seeing the drunks, et al, would be gone.) May well be the answer.''
Giant is renewing, however, partly because that club has taken the step of allowing fans to submit their credit-card information but not be charged until the labor standoff is settled. This goes beyond the N.F.L. policy of mandating quick refunds if games are canceled. The Giants, who have sold all but 1,000 season tickets and the odious seat licenses for 2011, are not willing to make interest on what amount to loans from loyal fans. Other teams are not so gracious.
''We've asked an awful lot of our season-ticket holders over the last few years in connection with this new stadium,'' John Mara, the team president, said in a news release. ''It was a gesture that (co-owner) Steve Tisch and I thought was a reasonable one to make.''
Knickerbocker is stunned. She is about to see the first playoff game in seven years in the World's Most Famous Construction Site, but just received notice that her excellent seats were rising to nearly $1,000 apiece next season from more than $300. The Garden says the rise includes free food in a private club -- ''economic segregation,'' she calls the plan. Because Knicks games are a social event, she may renew, but only by sharing the cost.
Yank is still seething over the machinations needed to retain good seats on the main level when the new stadium opened in 2009. He can understand the jump to $125 from $100 after winning the World Series in 2009, and feels blessed to afford the tickets, which he distributes to family and friends.
The prices at the Stadium exclude ''middle-class families with two or three kids, who must spend a minimum of $500 for a game,'' he wrote, as well as lower-income and most minority fans. ''My section is like pre-Mandela South Africa,'' he added. He also hates the recent plague of waiter service and the luxury boxes that contribute to the dead zone behind home plate.
Jet is delighted that his team did not have enough muscle to force him to buy a P.S.L. in the lower deck of the new Grim Generic Stadium in the Meadowlands. ''I see no useful purpose in 'owning' a license to my seats,'' he wrote. Instead, he opted for paying $100 each for four upper-deck tickets, which he shares with friends.
When I asked, my friends said the tax laws for business expenses did not affect them, one way or the other. Money is money, and they are reaching their limit.
This little list does not pretend to be a comprehensive study. Still, when loyal fans who have paid plenty over the years are wondering when enough is enough, something has gone wrong. Just don't tell my wife about that Derby ticket.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



235 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1782 words

HEADLINE: It's Time For Your Face-Lift, Miss Piggy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY and BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif.
KERMIT THE FROG, perched on a log inside a soundstage here a few weeks ago, was pouring on the charm. None of those smart-mouthed, skewering asides. No prickly dismissals of Miss Piggy's unwanted love.
The Green One was simply strumming his banjo in a digitally engineered rainstorm, crooning the words of his dreamy signature song -- ''someday we'll find it, the rainbow connection '' -- as if his professional life depended on it.
And it just might.
It is probably too much to say that the Muppets -- those wacky, witty, hand-operated anarchists of mid-1970s comedy -- are down to their last shot at show-business glory. But they are certainly long overdue for the kind of hit that gets a 56-year-old frog's calls returned in this town. 
Once international superstars, Jim Henson's Muppets have not had a major box-office hit in 32 years. That was ''The Muppet Movie,'' which took in $65 million for the Associated Film Distribution company in 1979, or about $197 million in today's currency. The next five Muppets pictures, which were increasingly uneven, together had less in total domestic ticket sales than ''Toy Story 3'' collected in its first five days. (As Kermit might say, ''Sheesh.'')
The oddball gang hasn't had a regular TV gig in two decades. A 2005 effort to revive the characters sputtered as they were lobbed between divisions of the Walt Disney Company, and a new TV series died in the planning stages. In 2008, a resuscitation effort built largely around retail offerings suffered from the recession and from inexperience -- Disney inexplicably reassigned the Muppets to an events team responsible for organizing movie premieres.
But Disney is giving another chance to Kermit, Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear, Gonzo, Dr. Teeth, the Swedish Chef, Beaker and those balcony blowhards, Statler and Waldorf. This time, there is no talk of new tie-in theme park rides, TV specials, elaborate lines of related merchandise or the other trappings of a companywide franchise. This time, it all boils down to making a hit movie.
Scheduled for release at Thanksgiving, a marquee position on Hollywood's calendar, ''The Muppets'' hopes to reboot the property by doubling down on signature attributes: irreverent, even biting humor; catchy song-and-dance numbers; and chaotic, unexpected storylines that can ricochet from dancing chickens to standup comedians to pigs in space. (The film will be up against ''Arthur Christmas,'' an animated movie from Sony about Santa's high-tech operations at the North Pole.)
''You have to walk a careful line between respectful and reverential,'' said Leslie B. Stern, a Disney stalwart who has been given oversight for rejuvenating the Muppets characters. ''Make it feel contemporary, but do it in a way that preserves what made these characters so engaging and endearing in the first place.''
CERTAIN rules of Muppetdom were forgotten or bent too often over time, people behind the new film say. One is that the characters play best when they are playing themselves. Flops like ''The Muppet Christmas Carol'' and ''Muppet Treasure Island'' put the critters into classic tales, losing the verve that came from the TV series and the first movie -- in which Rowlf the piano-playing dog was just a piano-playing dog, and audiences loved it.
By Mr. Henson's design, the Muppets are supposed to live in the real world, steadfastly believe that they are alive and -- this is a biggie -- play to an adult audience. He was so insistent that his non-''Sesame Street'' stars embody a grown-up personality and tone that he gave this title to the 1975 pilot that would introduce them: ''The Muppet Show: Sex and Violence.''
''People started to forget that the Muppets were never designed as children's entertainment,'' said Todd Lieberman, a producer of the new film. (Kermit, created in 1955, is the only character that appeared regularly on both ''Sesame Street'' and ''The Muppet Show.'')
Keeping all that in mind, Disney, which has owned the Muppets since 2004, assembled an unusual creative team known for cheeky, offbeat humor. Nick Stoller and Jason Segel, whose experience largely comes from R-rated comedies like ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall'' and ''Get Him to the Greek,'' wrote the screenplay. The director is James Bobin, a movie first-timer whose television writing and directing credits include the HBO series ''Flight of the Conchords'' and ''Da Ali G Show.''
The film, with a budget of just under $50 million, follows a small-town couple (Amy Adams and Mr. Segel) as they take a young Muppet named Walter -- a new creation -- to Los Angeles. They are on a hunt for the famous Muppet Studios, largely because the iPhone-toting Walter hasn't quite sorted out his identity.
After finding the studio, they go on a tour -- Alan Arkin plays the cranky guide -- and find the place ''rundown and for the most part abandoned,'' Mr. Lieberman said. (Sound familiar?) But Kermit & Company decide to fix all that by reuniting the gang, Blues Brothers-style, for an old-fashioned variety show fund-raiser that saves the studio from a villain named Tex Richman, played by Chris Cooper, who thinks he can smell oil under the famous Muppet Theater.
Filming of a big song-and-dance number shut down Hollywood Boulevard for two days. The movie eventually involves at least 100 Muppet characters and as many hip cameos as Mr. Stoller and Mr. Segel could fit into the script.
In an outpouring of good will, some of Hollywood's brightest young stars have lined up behind reviving the Muppets with a film that is, appropriately, about reviving the Muppets. Over the last several months, Ricky Gervais, Emily Blunt, Zach Galifianakis, Jack Black and two dozen or so peers have flocked to rented stages on the Universal Studios lot for roles.
''Pretty much the best day of my entire life,'' said Ms. Blunt, who, in a reprisal of her character in ''The Devil Wears Prada,'' plays an assistant to Miss Piggy, who is the editrix of ''Vogue Paris.'' ''Everyone who was on that set just walked away giddy,'' Ms. Blunt added. ''It was like touching your childhood.''
Like a lot of aging people in Hollywood, the Muppets were pretty much sitting on a shelf at Disney when Mr. Segel visited the studio in 2008 to talk about projects after his full-frontal moment in ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall.'' Mr. Segel suggested a Muppet movie, and Disney was open-minded.
Mr. Stoller signed on to a team that includes Mr. Lieberman and his business partner David Hoberman, perhaps best known lately as producers behind ''The Fighter.'' Ms. Adams, a star of that film, joined ''The Muppets'' one night over dinner, Mr. Lieberman said.
''As it turned out, nostalgia for the brand went way beyond our little circle,'' he said of the unusual wave of interest that eventually swept celebrity after celebrity into the project. In a single scene, Whoopi Goldberg, James Carville, Neil Patrick Harris, Judd Hirsch and Selena Gomez all make cameos, according to producers.
''This is the first Muppet production of any size that is really being spearheaded by fans instead of hard-core Muppet professionals,'' said Lisa Henson, Jim Henson's daughter and chief executive of the Henson Company.
Her father, who died in 1990, often worked with stars of less wattage. For human accompaniment, his creations sometimes made do with Ruth Buzzi's mugging or Charles Aznavour's whispering in French the phone number of a Paris garbage dump to an adoring Miss Piggy.
But the musical numbers, sight gags and very unexpected moments -- what to make of Rita Moreno and a dancing Muppet brutally slamming each other around the stage? -- worked its way into the psyche of a generation. By Mr. Stoller's reckoning, the Muppets stand alongside Woody Allen, ''Saturday Night Live'' and ''The Simpsons'' as pillars of contemporary comic style.
''Muppets are the gateway drug for comedy writers,'' said Mr. Stoller, who is in his mid-30s and recalls becoming addicted at an early age to the random capers, the vaudevillian flair and the mean old men who, from a perch in the balcony, were the show's interlocutors.
Given that generational influence, it is all the more puzzling that the Muppets became a diminishing presence even as newly invented creatures who seemed to share their spirit -- like Shrek, from DreamWorks Animation -- took center stage. At a time when prebranded characters are Hollywood's treasured assets, how were the Muppets allowed to slip into such a state?
Kermit's fortunes started to fade with a bungled sale after Mr. Henson's death. Disney had been on the verge of buying the Jim Henson Company. But Mr. Henson's heirs -- after a period of trying, with mixed success, to run the Muppets themselves -- ultimately made a richer deal with the German media company EM.TV and Merchandising.
EM.TV, which paid $680 million for the characters, would later have financial problems, and in 2003 sold the Muppets back to the Henson children for $78 million. The family later sold the Muppets to Disney while retaining the rights to other Henson creations like the Fraggles. (Sesame Workshop owns ''Sesame Street'' and related characters.)
At that point, Disney started its cycle of on-again, off-again efforts to put the Muppets back to work.
Speaking by telephone in February, Ms. Henson noted that the Muppets had been handled well enough to get them through a half-dozen films -- no mean feat. Disney declined to discuss its previous labors, but Ms. Stern said it was pleased with the success of several viral videos made in recent years to keep a pilot light on for the franchise, particularly one where the characters perform Queen's ''Bohemian Rhapsody.''
Indeed, the popularity of that video, which has been viewed almost 20 million times on YouTube since late 2009, was a reason that Disney had confidence that the Muppets -- half marionettes, half puppets -- hadn't lost relevance in an age of computer animation.
MS. HENSON has no connection to the new film, though many old Muppet hands are working on it. (After being reminded that Muppets believe they are living beings, not puppets, Mr. Segel decided to delete a scene in which Walter, yearning to become a Muppet, practices as a ventriloquist's dummy.) But Ms. Henson said the family, at long last, likes the direction Disney is going.
''We hoped they would be willing to make a really expensive, major-movie-star Muppet movie,'' she said.
Mr. Hoberman, the producer, is likely to disagree with ''expensive,'' but he does concede that ''The Muppets'' has been made to have the kind of big, sprawling vibe that can create new fans and draw back older ones. ''We are aware of the responsibility here,'' he said. ''We are appealing to everyone, young and old.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Disney aims to reboot the Muppets franchise with a new movie. The gang hasn't had a big box-office hit in 32 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY BUCHSBAUM/MUPPETS STUDIO)(BU1)
Humans on the film's set are, from left, the director James Bobin, screenplay writers Jason Segel and Nick Stoller (Mr. Segel also stars)
and Bret McKenzie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW MACPHERSON/WALT DISNEY PICTURES)
 Some people forget that the Muppets ''were never designed as children's entertainment,'' says Todd Lieberman, left, a producer, with David Hoberman. J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (87%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (84%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MOVIE REVENUES (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (72%); ANIMATION (67%); ANIMATED FILMS (67%); TICKET SALES (67%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); CHRISTMAS (60%); THANKSGIVING (60%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (82%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: Muppets, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



236 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

 BODY:
LORD OF MISRULE, by Jaimy Gordon (Vintage Contemporaries, $15.) Winner of the 2010 National Book Award for fiction, this novel revolves around four horse races at a second-class racetrack in West Virginia. (Lord of Misrule is a ''shiny black beetle'' of a stakes horse.) Gordon ably shifts perspective among several characters, including an old groom, a trainer and his girlfriend, an outsider drawn to the broken-down beauty of the animals. 
THE END OF WALL STREET, by Roger Lowenstein (Penguin, $17.) Lowenstein, a contributor to The New York Times Magazine and a former reporter for The Wall Street Journal, constructs a precise, condensed version of the origins, climax and fallout of the 2008 financial collapse, ''a dark and powerful storm front that had long been gathering at Wall Street's shores.''THE RELENTLESS REVOLUTION: A History of Capitalism,by Joyce Appleby. (Norton, $17.95.) Arguing that capitalism is a cultural, rather than a purely economic, phenomenon, Appleby traces its origins through European, American and Asian successes and setbacks.
THE ASK, by Sam Lipsyte (Picador, $15.) This sardonic novel, which our reviewer, Lydia Millet, called ''a witty paean to white-collar loserdom,'' describes a crisis in the life of a sad sack named Milo Burke. A recently fired development officer at a mediocre university, Milo is offered a chance to win his job back if he can solicit a major donation -- an ''ask'' -- from an old college friend who's now a Machiavellian tech millionaire.
SILK PARACHUTE, by John McPhee (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $15.) For 45 years, McPhee's narrative nonfiction has earned praise for its quirky choice of subjects and the way it translates technically complex material. This collection of essays wanders from memories of his mother to unusual meals, as McPhee gives us, bit by bit, a more personal sense of who he is.
SOMETHING IS OUT THERE: Stories, by Richard Bausch (Vintage Contemporaries, $15.) The characters in Bausch's eighth volume of stories -- young and old, straight and gay, blue-collar and professional -- circle a disturbing truth: that the power to shape our lives can be as terrifying as it is liberating.
REBEL LAND: Unraveling the Riddle of History in a Turkish Town, by Christopher de Bellaigue (Penguin, $16.) In a 2001 article in The New York Review of Books, de Bellaigue wrote what many saw as a pro-Turkish account of the fate of the Ottoman Armenians. Chastened by the furious response, he set out to investigate Turkey's ethnographic and historical entanglements; the result, as much memoir as history, is ''a rare, remarkable feat,'' Joseph O'Neill wrote in the Book Review.
WHAT WE ARE, by Peter Nathaniel Malae (Grove, $14.95.) Malae's first novel gives voice to a ''Me Generation'' poet of mixed heritage and profound anti-American sentiment, whose ideas about solitude nevertheless feel quintessentially American.
STILL LIFE: Adventures in Taxidermy, by Melissa Milgrom (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, $14.95.) This engrossing, affectionate study of an antiquated skill is both a general history and an introduction to the hobbyists and experts in its contemporary subculture.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HORSE RACING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (88%) TURKEY (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); ARMENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



237 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Hard Knocks and High Hopes

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE first quarter of 2011 was a tempestuous time for the world and for the financial markets. But for the markets, at least, there has seemed to be relatively little lingering damage.
While the full effect of a devastating earthquake in Japan is unclear and political turmoil across North Africa and the Middle East is still unfolding, holders of most types of mutual funds recorded moderate to strong gains for the period, as investors apparently took inspiration from a generally improving tone in economic and corporate data.
The average domestic equity fund in Morningstar's database rose 6.2 percent during a volatile first quarter in which the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose nearly 7 percent at one point, then lost all of that and a bit more, before recovering in the last two weeks of March to finish 5.4 percent higher.
Commodity funds showed particular strength during the quarter, with gains of 7.6 percent, on average, for diversified funds and 13.8 percent for portfolios focusing on energy. Funds that specialize in smaller companies and such sectors as health care, communications, cyclical industries and technology gained more than 6 percent, on average. 
International funds were so-so performers among stock funds, gaining 2.6 percent. They were dragged down by weakness in Asian stock markets, especially Japan's.
Bond funds, meanwhile, eked out modest gains; the average one was up 1.6 percent, as Treasury bond yields were little changed in the quarter but spreads on lower-quality debt contracted, sending prices higher.
Professional investors attributed the up-down-and-up-again performance of stocks to a tug of war between mounting evidence that the economic recovery is gaining momentum -- net job creation has been positive for the last six months, something that hasn't happened since June 2007 -- and the troubling events abroad. They marveled at the stock market's ability to hold up so well amid trying and virtually impossible-to-foresee circumstances.
''There are two crosscurrents that kind of cancel each other out,'' said Thomas H. Forester, manager of the Forester Value fund. ''Despite what's going on in the Middle East and Japan, the market is extremely resilient. In other cases it would be down 10 to 15 percent.''
Mr. Forester expressed exasperation at the United States' economic gains because the Federal Reserve has had to devote so many resources to QE2 -- the second round of quantitative easing, or Treasury bond purchases -- in order to achieve them.
Speaking of the part of the stock rally that began last summer, around the time QE2 was announced, he said: ''I look at the market and would say that it's largely the Fed pumping in liquidity. The problem is if the Fed has to take liquidity out of the market, we could end up with a 2000 kind of event'' -- when stocks, led by the technology sector, fell sharply. ''If and when it gets taken back, what happens? Do we get QE3, QE4 and QE5?''
If investors start to think that the Fed has backed itself into a corner, the stock market may fare badly, Mr. Forester warned.
THE same applies to the bond market, said Thomas H. Atteberry, co-manager of the FPA New Income fund and a partner at First Pacific Advisors. He sees signs that this is happening already -- notably in a rise in Treasury yields since QE2 began.
''The Federal Reserve Bank is likely to be the biggest holder of Treasury bonds'' after QE2 is done, Mr. Atteberry said. ''Who are they going to sell to?''
Another potential headwind for the stock market results from the robust growth in corporate profits. Standard & Poor's estimates that operating earnings for the S.& P. 500 companies reached $22.17 in the first quarter, the most since the second quarter of 2007.
Brett Hammond, chief investment strategist at TIAA-CREF, warned that such strength could be a tough act to follow.
''What we should watch for is companies being squeezed on earnings in terms of percentage growth,'' he said. ''We could solve Japan and the Middle East and still have a squeeze on earnings growth by the end of the year.''
Jonathan Golub, a strategist at UBS, views the gains made by the economy and businesses with more unalloyed optimism. ''We're seeing substantial improvement in incoming economic data, in particular the employment picture,'' he said. He minimized the potential impact of higher energy prices, saying, ''If you take an unemployed guy and give him a job, he's happy to pay more for gas.''
Mr. Golub highlighted stronger readings in surveys of manufacturing activity, and said he expects earnings to keep improving, even from high current levels. He sees the stock market rising a further 10 percent or so this year and recommends owning sectors exposed to continued robust economic expansion, including technology, financial services and cyclical industries, as well as shares of smaller companies.
Less optimistic investment advisers encourage putting an emphasis on stability and value.
''Stocks are not necessarily something you want to run screaming from, but you want to rotate out of cyclical stuff like energy and into countercyclical stuff like health care,'' Mr. Hammond said. He generally prefers larger companies that can take advantage of opportunities to do business in countries with strong currencies, and he likes real estate investment trusts, too.
For Mark R. Freeman, manager of the WHG Income Opportunity fund, ''we come back to where we were finding value before this turbulence'' overseas, he said. ''Higher-quality, upper-market-capitalization companies offer the most opportunities at the moment.'' He noted that large companies were recently trading at about three-quarters of the valuation of smaller companies.
Mr. Freeman especially likes health care and, in a contrarian play, insurance companies with exposure to Japan. As for bonds, he said that ''the fixed-income opportunity set is limited.''
MR. ATTEBERRY has the same opinion on bonds. ''I have told people that bonds are not a place where I would be putting risk capital these days because I don't think you're getting paid for the risk you're taking,'' he said.
With the possibility that such an observation may apply to many stocks, too, Mr. Hammond recommends that investors avoid counting too much on any one type of asset.
''The events of the last few weeks show the importance of not putting all your eggs in one basket,'' he said. ''How would you have anticipated the Middle East and Japan? Those kinds of shocks to the system are very difficult to anticipate. We're seeing volatility increase, and that's going to continue. A diversified portfolio is important.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A celebration in Tahrir Square in Cairo. The region's turmoil has had little overall effect on American stock and bond markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(BU18) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM ROBINSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (86%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BOND FUNDS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); EARTHQUAKES (72%); JOB CREATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) JAPAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



238 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: How General Electric Dealt With the Tax Man

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Who Could Blame G.E.?'' (column, April 5), Joe Nocera says America's corporations have a fiduciary duty to maximize profit for their shareholders. Who says so? This has become the modern mantra of business-school professors and chief executives. But the corporation is not chartered by the shareholders. It is chartered by the state. The state charters corporations because it believes they may provide benefits to the society and not just to the shareholders. 
It is interesting to note that as recently as the 1980s, the Business Roundtable's chief executive mission statement asserted that the chief executive had a duty to care for customers, employees, communities and the nation (the stakeholders, in other words) as well as the shareholders.
This mission statement was changed in the mid-1990s to conform to the present shareholder value fetish. General Electric and other corporations that practice this fetish do so at their own and the country's long-term peril.
CLYDE PRESTOWITZ Potomac, Md., April 5, 2011
The writer, president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a nonpartisan public policy think tank, was counselor to the secretary of commerce in the Reagan administration.
To the Editor:
Joe Nocera's column demonstrates a mentality that America's large budget deficit is someone else's problem. Surely, executives at General Electric like Jeffrey R. Immelt, who now serves in the Obama administration, would happily lecture about the need to reduce the deficit on the backs of someone else.
Mr. Nocera asks how can you blame G.E. for creatively reducing its tax bill to almost zero thanks to extensive lobbying and its 1,000-person tax department. He suggests that avoiding taxes is as American as apple pie, but isn't doing the right thing supposed to be American as well?
Saying you are for deficit reduction is easy, but making the personal sacrifice required to actually do something about the problem is a lot harder. G.E. could be a role model of civic responsibility instead of a model of what not to do. As we ask the poorest among us to make sacrifices to balance the budget, it's only fair that the biggest among us, like corporations and hedge fund managers, pay their fair share of taxes.
WILLIAM BENDETSON Boston, April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); BUDGETS (75%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TAX LAW (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (91%); GEC (LSE) (91%); GE (SWX) (91%); GE (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



239 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 9335 words

HEADLINE: Reformed School

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER

 BODY:
On a recent morning, Ramon Gonzalez, the principal of M.S. 223, a public middle school in the South Bronx, arrived at work as usual at 7:30, stripped off his coat and suit jacket, deposited his tea and toast from a nearby diner on the cluttered conference table in his office and hustled down the hallway to the school's back door to greet arriving students. Gonzalez had a busy agenda for the day. Among other things, he needed to get to work on a proposal for the city's Department of Education to expand 223 into a high school. 
At 10, Gonzalez was finally about to sit down at his computer, when he was interrupted. A young teacher came into his office in tears, unable to figure out what was going on with an eighth grader who had just transferred to 223 from a public school in Florida, was way behind in class and had been wandering around the school's hallways between periods, looking lost. Gonzalez knew almost nothing about the girl. Like many of his students, she turned up at 223 with no more than a utility bill to prove she lived in the neighborhood. He calmed the teacher and started trying to figure out what was happening. (When he finally reached an administrator at the girl's old school days later, he discovered that she had been classified with a severe learning disability.)
Next, Gonzalez was informed that the three free books that each of his school's students was entitled to -- under a nonprofit program to promote literacy in poor communities -- had never arrived. He needed to chase them down. (As it turned out, they wound up at the wrong school.) As he was doing so, he learned that a former teacher who had physically threatened him, members of his faculty and even some students, and whom Gonzalez had spent years trying to remove from the classroom, was challenging his termination.
There was also the matter of the eye tests. For five straight days, Gonzalez had been trying to get through to someone at an organization that does free vision tests at public schools and fits children with glasses on the spot. ''I can guarantee you right now that at least 20 percent of our kids need glasses,'' he told me, after leaving yet another message on someone's voice mail to ''please, please, please call me back.'' Gonzalez, a light-skinned, baby-faced Latino, was sitting at a table in his office, his untouched tea and toast in front of him. Hanging on the bulletin board above him were the school's last three report cards from the city, straight A's, and an elaborately color-coded chart tracking all of his 486 students' test scores. ''They're in their classrooms right now, staring at blackboards with no idea what they're looking at,'' he said. ''You can have the best teachers, the best curriculum and the greatest after-school programs in the world, but if your kids can't see, what does it matter?''
Gonzalez has been principal of M.S. 223, on 145th Street near Willis Avenue, since the school's creation in September 2003. One of the first schools opened by Joel Klein, the New York City schools chancellor at the time, 223 was intended to help replace a notoriously bad junior high school that the city had decided to shut down. Thirteen percent of its first incoming class of sixth graders were at grade level in math and just 10 percent were at grade level in English. Last year, after seven years under Gonzalez, 60 percent of its students tested at or above grade level in math and 30 percent in English. Not something to brag about in most school districts, but those numbers make 223 one of the top middle schools in the South Bronx. According to its latest progress report from the Department of Education, which judges a school's growth against a peer group with similar demographics, 223 is the 10th-best middle school in the entire city.
Success stories like this in high-poverty neighborhoods are becoming more common in the era of charter schools, but 223 is no charter. There is no clamoring of parents trying to game a spot for their kids in a lottery, no screening of applicants, no visits from educators hoping to learn the secret of the school's success, no shadow philanthropist supplying Kindles to all of its students. M.S. 223 is just a regular public school. Gonzalez isn't even allowed to see the files of incoming students before they arrive. ''You know what you have to do to come to school here?'' Gonzalez told me. ''Walk through that door.''
Late last year, as I was first getting to know Gonzalez and M.S. 223, I spent some time with Klein during his final days on the job, joining him on a couple of his last school visits and talking to him about his tenure as chancellor.
Now that education reform has become an established national movement, backed by countless multimillionaires and endorsed by President Obama himself, it's easy to forget that Klein was once a lonely pioneer, if not the first chancellor to try to overhaul his schools, then surely the first to undertake such an ambitious effort to do so, and in the city with the largest -- 1.1 million students -- and most complicated school system in the country.
During our conversations, Klein, a former lawyer, cloaked his revolutionary ideology in a technocrat's rhetoric, describing how he implemented ''disruptive strategies'' designed to transform the city's schools ''from a provider-driven system to a consumer-driven one.'' What he meant was that he turned the city's school system upside down, opening hundreds of new schools and shutting down dozens of others. Individual schools were given control over their own budgets, hiring and curriculums. In exchange, they were expected to earn good grades on their report cards from the city -- another Klein innovation -- or risk closure.
Klein's successor, Cathleen Black, made it clear that she planned to continue the bold policies that he started implementing after his appointment by Mayor Bloomberg in 2002. (Black has since resigned.) While it may still be too early to evaluate Klein's legacy, some statistics certainly suggest meaningful progress. When Klein started, for instance, less than 50 percent of New York's incoming high-school freshmen were graduating in four years. That number is now 63 percent. Since 2006, according to an analysis of state testing data by the city's Department of Education (which used 2010's recalibrated proficiency levels to compare 2006's testing data to 2010's), the city's elementary and middle schools have seen a 22-point increase in the percentage of students at or above grade level in math (to 54 percent) and a 6-point increase in English (to 42 percent).
At the center of Klein's vision was the notion that New York should not aspire to have a great school system but a system of great schools run by talented and empowered educators. To help reach this goal, Klein created an academy to train principals in the new skills the job would require and dispatched its graduates to the city's most difficult neighborhoods with a mandate for change and the authority and autonomy to try to effect it. ''I think one of our core accomplishments is that we transformed the principal from an agent of the bureaucracy to the C.E.O. of his or her school,'' Klein told me.
I thought about this notion a lot over the course of the months I spent with Gonzalez at 223. It's an incongruous metaphor to apply to someone whose office overlooks one of the largest, most dangerous housing projects in New York. Still, Gonzalez has shown the kind of entrepreneurial thinking that, were he a C.E.O., would attract attention: he joined the board of the Randall's Island Sports Foundation in part to gain access to its playing fields, hired a part-time grant writer to raise money for the school, brought in a number of nonprofits to support the school's extracurricular activities and even rented out space in his building to underwrite 223's two-week summer-school program.
In certain respects, 223 is a monument to Klein's success: empower the right principals to run their own schools and watch them bloom. Thanks to Klein, Gonzalez has been able to avoid having teachers foisted on him on the basis of seniority. He has been able to create his own curriculums, micromanage his students' days (within the narrow confines of the teachers' union contract, anyway) and spend his annual budget of $4 million on the personnel, programs and materials he deems most likely to help his kids.
And yet even as school reform made it possible for Gonzalez to succeed, as the movement rolls inexorably forward, it also seems in many ways set up to make him fail. The grading system imposed by Klein that has bestowed three consecutive A's on Gonzalez is based in part on how well 223 does on state tests. But the school's relative success on these tests and other measures also disqualifies him from additional state resources earmarked for failing schools. The ever-growing number of charter schools, often privately subsidized and rarely bound by union rules, that Klein unleashed on the city skims off the neighborhood's more ambitious, motivated families. And every year, as failing schools are shut down around Gonzalez, a steady stream of children with poor intellectual habits and little family support continues to arrive at 223. Gonzalez wouldn't want it any other way -- he takes pride in his school's duty to educate all comers -- but the endless flow of underperforming students drags down test scores, demoralizes teachers and makes the already daunting challenge of transforming 223 into a successful school, not just a relatively successful one, that much more difficult.
The school day at 223 begins at 7:50 a.m. This is 10 minutes before the United Federation of Teachers officially permits New York City public schools to start, which means that every year a majority of 223's teachers has to vote to approve the earlier opening bell. The early start is a way to create more time for after-school programs, especially academic tutoring, before it gets dark and the streets surrounding the school become more threatening. ''The research says it's better to start your school day later,'' Gonzalez says, referring to studies showing that adolescents often need to get more sleep in order to be at their best. ''But those researchers don't live in my neighborhood.''
M.S. 223 is in the heart of School District 7, which is part of the poorest Congressional district in the nation. More than 90 percent of its students live in one of five housing projects, most prominently the Patterson Houses, a sprawling complex of 15 towers across the street from the school. About 70 percent of its students are Hispanic, predominantly Puerto Rican and Dominican. The remainder are black, either African-American or recent immigrants from West African countries like Senegal. Roughly 11 percent of the school's students are ELLs, or English-language learners. (Another 60 to 70 percent of its students are former ELLs.) About 17 percent have learning disabilities.
Upon arrival at 223, students pass through a gantlet of smiling teachers. Gonzalez requires that faculty members stand outside their doors at the start of the school day, part of his effort to set the school off from the grim streets surrounding it. ''In our location, kids have to want to come to school,'' he says. ''This is a very sick district. Tuberculosis, AIDS, asthma rates, homeless shelters, mental-health needs -- you name the physical or social ill, and we're near the top for the city. Which means that when our kids come to school in the morning, when they come through that door, we have to welcome them.''
There's another, no less compelling reason for this policy: posting teachers outside their classrooms helps maintain order in the hallways. It's one of a number of things, like moving students' lockers into their homerooms, that Gonzalez has done to ensure that kids spend as little time as possible in the halls, where so much middle-school trouble invariably begins. (Chaotic hallways also tend to make for chaotic classrooms.)
Watching students pour into the school, some barely five feet tall, others over six feet, it can be hard to believe that all of 223's kids are within just a few years of one another. This is the nature of middle school, which straddles childhood and adolescence, an awkward period for most children and one of the many reasons that educators will tell you that middle-schoolers are unusually challenging, even in the best of circumstances.
It's hard to say definitively how successful Gonzalez has been at controlling 223's halls. During the weeks I spent at the school, I never saw anything much more serious than one kid yanking another's backpack, but the wave of students crashing noisily toward their homerooms bore little resemblance to the silent, single-file lines you see in many charter schools.
Those schools have a distinct advantage over 223, though. Their families have already chosen to be at a charter and have often jumped through numerous hoops to get there. This makes it easier for charters to create their own cultures. They can define the length of their days, dictate exactly how children dress and enforce strict codes of conduct. Those students -- scholars, in charter parlance -- who fall out of line don't last.
Much of what Gonzalez does involves creating a culture for 223 too, one that he essentially tricks children into embracing. Look closely at just about any aspect of 223, and you will invariably discover a hidden agenda. Students at 223 are required to wear white shirts and blue pants or skirts. Gonzalez would like all of his boys to dress more formally, but rather than insisting that they wear ties, the custom at many charters, he has encouraged the school's athletes to do so in the hope that the trend would spread. Most charters extend the school day until 5 p.m., an easy way to maximize their influence over students. Traditional public schools, however, are permitted to require that children be in school for only about six hours each day, so Gonzalez has had to find creative ways to keep kids in the building, for example, mandating that students attend math or English tutoring before participating in after-school sports, clubs and music programs.
Career Day was held at 223 on a Monday morning in late January. Participants, a professionally diverse crowd of about 25, mostly minorities, that included a fashion designer, a corporate lawyer and a parole officer, started assembling at around 9 o'clock in an overheated classroom. A few picked at an unappetizing buffet of cold eggs, dinner rolls and limp, greasy bacon. Most scrolled through their BlackBerrys and waited, with growing impatience, to be told where to go and what to do.
If they expected to deliver a perfunctory description of their jobs, answer a few questions and be done, Gonzalez had other plans. At about 9:15 he strode into the room and got right to the point. ''Some of these kids have never left the Bronx or even the area,'' he said, casting a stern eye around the group. ''For a lot of our kids, this is going to be a life-changing experience, and I want to make sure you see it that way. I'll be out in the hallway cheering you on, keeping that fire going, but I have to stress that this is an opportunity for them, and you don't want to lose it.'' Then he walked out.
Gonzalez, who is Cuban and Puerto Rican, has a term for encounters between his students and adults with the potential to affect them: touches. As he describes it, it was a touch that changed the course of his own life when he was in middle school. Gonzalez was raised in East Harlem by his mother, who supported seven children on welfare. A Puerto Rican stockbroker who volunteered at the Boys' Club where Gonzalez spent most of his free time took an interest in him and encouraged him to take a test to qualify for a high-school scholarship. Gonzalez aced the test and was accepted to Middlesex, a prep school outside Boston. ''I always had this weird feeling of having one foot in one world and one foot in another,'' he says. ''My financial-aid package paid for me to fly up to Boston, then I'd fly home for vacation and kids in the neighborhood would be getting shot.'' From Middlesex, he went on to Cornell.
Gonzalez's background is similar to that of many of his students, and he can personally relate to some of the obstacles that stand in the way of their academic achievement: as a boy, he would take a pillow into the bathtub and close the bathroom door, because it was the only quiet place to read in the apartment. But Gonzalez had at least one thing going for him. While his father, a veteran who returned from the Vietnam War addicted to heroin, was in and out of jail for much of Gonzalez's life and ultimately died of AIDS during his senior year at Cornell, he was self-educated and politically aware, a member of the Young Lords, the Puerto Rican equivalent of the Black Panthers. He recognized that his son was bright, and even if he wasn't a provider or a role model, he did have aspirations for his son. He wanted him to go to law school and become a neighborhood defense lawyer.
Instead, after graduating from college and moving back to his old neighborhood, Gonzalez started working as a math teacher, biding his time and building his resume until he would be considered qualified to run his own school.
The opportunity to start 223, which began with 150 students, all sixth graders, arose when he was 31. Things got off to an inauspicious start. Gonzalez initially opened the school in another building with two other South Bronx middle schools, one of which was reserved exclusively for children with special needs. Special-needs students tend to be older and bigger than others at their grade level and often have behavioral issues, a mix that proved problematic for Gonzalez's students. ''My kids were getting their butts kicked,'' he says. After one such episode led to a broken nose, he decided that he had seen enough. In a freezing rainstorm on Christmas Eve, he found himself personally ferrying 30 computers out of one building and into the empty floor of another, where 223 now resides.
Gonzalez still lives in East Harlem, a few blocks from where he grew up. Though his son, Laurencio, the oldest of three children, is in kindergarten at a private school on Manhattan's Upper East Side, Gonzalez told me that he hoped to send him and his two other children to middle school at 223. ''That's the goal, to have this school be a place where I'd want to send my own kids.''
One frigid night in December, I went with Gonzalez to watch him give a presentation at a community-education council meeting at an elementary school in the South Bronx. Gonzalez had recently introduced a literacy initiative at 223, asking all of his parents and children to drop whatever they are doing at 6 o'clock every Thursday night and spend the next two hours reading. As part of the campaign, 223 placed free-book bins in local bodegas, health clinics and Laundromats. Now Gonzalez was hoping to expand Community Reading Night into a broader, districtwide event.
Gonzalez was preceded by the school's holiday concert. The moment the performance ended, parents started heading for the door. By the time Gonzalez rose to speak, the auditorium, nearly full when we arrived, was mostly empty. He had prepared a PowerPoint presentation, but had to abandon it because there was a cord missing. ''This community is in crisis,'' he said. ''The literacy test scores that we have in our community are 23 percent. That is a scary number. What that means is that 23 percent of our kids are on pace to graduate from high school and go to college. Go to college. That doesn't mean they're going to finish college. Twenty-three percent. We cannot sustain our community on 23 percent. We have to be reading with our children. That's the only way we're going to change this scary statistic.''
Klein may see Gonzalez as a chief executive, but Gonzalez prefers to think of himself as a community activist. His vision for 223 is in some respects anachronistic in the era of school reform. Klein's animating belief, and surely what he will best be remembered for, is the notion that while low-income families may not be able to choose what neighborhood they live in, they should nonetheless be able to choose what school their children attend. It was toward that end that he brought more than 100 charter schools to New York -- with at least 100 more still on the way -- deliberately concentrating them in high-poverty areas like Harlem and the South Bronx to create competition for existing public schools. Without ever quite saying so, Klein was agitating against the very idea of the neighborhood school with deep roots in a community, which is precisely what Gonzalez is now trying to revive and reinvent.
Broadly speaking, the modus operandi of most charter schools, or at least those in impoverished neighborhoods, is to separate children from their presumably malignant environments. Gonzalez objects to this in principle. ''I don't want to be part of the history of taking talented kids out of the neighborhoods and telling them to move on,'' he says. More practically, he doesn't think it's a realistic objective, considering 223's population. ''Most of our kids are never going to leave this area just for financial reasons; they can't afford to live anywhere else, they don't have the guidance, whatever. So how do we make those places better so that their kids aren't going through the same cycle?''
Given his and Klein's conflicting agendas, it's no surprise that Gonzalez is critical of many of the policies of education reform. He has no problem with schools being held accountable for their performance, but he worries that the reform movement's infatuation with competition will undermine the broader goal of improving public education -- that by grading schools against their peers you are encouraging them to hoard their successful innovations rather than to share them. He is concerned as well about the fact that the new principals being sent, disproportionately, into disadvantaged neighborhoods have little experience with or connection to the communities they're supposed to serve. And he is made uncomfortable by all of the educational experimentation, the endless stream of pilot programs, being implemented in neighborhoods like his. ''I'm just afraid that our kids are being sacrificed while everyone is learning on the job,'' he says. ''This is not some sort of urban experiment. These are kids' lives were talking about.''
Gonzalez tries to visit classrooms at least three days a week to provide informal feedback to his less experienced instructors. On a recent morning, I joined him on his rounds, sitting in on a sixth-grade science class taught by a second-year teacher named Garrett Adler.
A common assumption inside the school-reform movement, one often repeated in the wake of America's sobering performance in the recent Program for International Student Assessment exam -- the U.S. ranked 17th in reading and 23rd in science -- is that our nation's public-school teachers tend not to be high achievers themselves. (By contrast, in Finland teachers are drawn from the top 10 percent of their college classes.) You can't get much more high-achieving than Adler, who grew up on the Upper West Side and attended Hunter College High School, one of New York's most selective public high schools, before graduating magna cum laude from Brown University.
And yet when Adler came to 223 last year through the New York City Teaching Fellows program, which helps train and place aspiring teachers in the city's public-school system, he was at best a struggling teacher. He was incapable of controlling his classroom. Students shot rubber bands at one another, fooled around with dangerous lab equipment and ignored his repeated requests to quiet down. ''I used to go into his classroom first thing in the morning scared of what I might see,'' Gonzalez told me. ''To be honest, at one point I was about ready to give him the hook.'' Instead, he devoted precious resources to teaching Adler how to teach, hiring a personal coach to attend his classes regularly and meet with him for 45 minutes a week.
There were 30 students in Adler's class, their desks divided into several clusters. The subject of the day was matter. Adler, a slight, anxious-looking 24-year-old with glasses and a beard, wore chinos and a button-down shirt and tie, per the unofficial dress code for male faculty members. (The U.F.T. contract prevents Gonzalez from formally requiring that teachers wear ties.)
After a brief introductory movie starring an animated robot, Adler taught his students the ''matter march,'' warning them in advance that it was ''incredibly dorky'' but that once they learned it, they would never forget the definition of ''matter.'' Standing in front of his class, Adler proceeded to demonstrate the march -- really more of a dance, with a spin and a clap and the words, chanted like a cheer: ''Matter is anything that takes up space and has mass!''
Adler moved swiftly through the rest of the lesson, working hard not to lose his momentum. ''Not right now,'' he said brusquely, his eyes fixed on his clipboard, to a student whose hand was raised. Over the years, Gonzalez and his staff have developed a simple, rigid plan meant to help new teachers manage their classrooms and progress through lessons without getting derailed. Each 45-minute period is divided into five sections, or waves, as they're known. Adler facilitated his transitions with chants: ''Work hard. Get smart. Woot! Woot!'' The suggestion to do that came last year from his coach. ''At first, I thought they were really cheesy; I felt like they weren't me,'' he told me later of the undignified sideshows he has come to deploy. ''Now I feel like: You know what? They can be me.''
After class, Gonzalez had some criticisms. Among other things, Adler never made it to the final wave of the lesson, known as the share, when the class gathers in a circle to review and reinforce what it learned that day. (''Circle up to talk it out, to get it, get it, get it.'') But Gonzalez was pleased. The danger now is that like many young teachers, Adler will soon move on, and all that money Gonzalez spent on his development will have been wasted. ''Every time one of my teachers leaves, that's $200,000 walking out the door,'' he told me.
During his tenure, Klein often referred to the mission of improving our nation's public schools as ''the civil rights battle of our time.'' Rhetoric like this helped the education-reform campaign blossom into a full-fledged movement. Young college graduates now go into blighted schools to teach in much the same way that an earlier generation went south to march. This has been a boon for Gonzalez. Eight of his nine original faculty members were fresh from college via Teach for America, and today 60 percent of his teachers are in their 20s. ''You really need idealists, people who are willing to do the extra work,'' he says.
But this dependence on young teachers brings its own challenges. ''First-year teachers are pretty much useless,'' Gonzalez says. ''To me, the ideal teacher is a third-year Teach for America teacher.'' The problem, at least from where Gonzalez sits, is that Teach for America requires only a two-year commitment. It entices the best applicants not only with the promise of changing lives in impoverished schools but also by presenting itself as a resume-builder for elite institutions like Harvard Business School and McKinsey & Company. ''I'm trying to build people who are going to stay, who want to work with our kids,'' Gonzalez says. ''This isn't where they're starting their careers; this is their life. We've had plenty of brilliant people here from organizations like Teach for America, and they lasted two years, because their hearts weren't in it. I can't afford that. That's hurtful to our kids.''
Much as he has done with his student body, Gonzalez has tried to create a particular culture among his faculty, relying equally on inspiration and incentive. Last year, to discourage teachers from taking advantage of a clause in the U.F.T. contract allowing them to miss 10 days of every school year, he gave everyone with a perfect attendance record a Flip video camera. (As usual, there was an ulterior motive: Gonzalez wanted them to use the cameras to record themselves in the classroom.)
A few weeks after visiting Adler's class, I stopped by his classroom at the end of the day. The place was a mess. He had just finished a lab that involved making ice cream in baggies with ice, salt, sugar, vanilla and milk. He made us a batch, spooning some into Dixie cups as we sat down to talk.
Adler said he was enjoying his job -- ''I like being the science teacher, being that figure in these kids' lives'' -- especially when he considers his friends from Brown, many of whom are still stuck in a postcollege malaise. And Gonzalez, he said, is certainly an inspiring boss. ''When he gets up and gives his little spiels about how we're here to change people's lives and how we do that every day, that's a powerful thing to hear as a teacher.''
Still, he isn't convinced that he's well suited to teaching, particularly at this level. He's not organized enough to keep students on task and, indirectly anyway, he echoed Gonzalez's concern about fundamentally not being part of the 223 community. ''I have a vocabulary that comes from always having gone to really high-level schools,'' he said. ''I feel like I'm probably talking over half the class half the time.'' This, he feels, diminishes his already tenuous authority in the classroom: ''Who am I, this 24-year-old white kid from the Upper West Side, to tell a bunch of kids from a very different background how they're supposed to behave and act?''
M.S. 223 holds its parent-association meetings on the first Saturday morning of every month. During the preceding week, parents receive a robocall reminder from the school, either in English or Spanish. Not that such calls ever make much of a difference. Parent engagement, a given at most charter schools and middle-class public schools, is an ongoing struggle at 223. Like a door-to-door salesman, Gonzalez is not ashamed to use every method at his disposal to prod participation. Each parent meeting is bookended by free raffles to encourage people to show up and to stay. Just to be safe, no one leaves empty-handed: goodie bags at the door are filled with soap, shampoo and other beauty products.
On a clear, cold Saturday in January, about a dozen parents gathered inside 223's library, an oversize classroom lined with empty metal shelves, for the first parent-association meeting of the new year. Wanda Hill, the school's parent liaison, started by raffling off a $30 gift certificate to Payless shoes. Later came a World Wrestling Entertainment clock and a set of queen-size flannel sheets from J. C. Penney. All three had been procured by Hill, who volunteers at World Vision, a Christian charity, in large part so that she can get first dibs on the corporate castoffs that the organization collects.
Sandwiched in between the raffles, in English with Spanish translation, was a presentation on gangs, as well as an update on the campaign to renovate the school's library. In closing, Hill reminded parents that anyone who made it to one of the district's monthly education meetings would be entitled to free clothes from Dress Barn, also arranged through her volunteer work at World Vision.
After the meeting, I introduced myself to the only English-speaking parent in attendance, Cheryl Thomas, the mother of a sixth grader named Terrell. Thomas told me that she moved her family to the Patterson Houses several years ago, when they had to go on public assistance after she quit her job to care for a daughter with spina bifida. Thomas said that she had decided not to enter Terrell in the lottery at a charter about 12 blocks away from 223. Because of the school's long days, he wouldn't have been heading home until close to 6, which made her nervous. She and Terrell went to an open house at 223 and liked what they saw. After he registered, Terrell returned to the school for a technology seminar run by a nonprofit; all attendees were given free computers.
On my way out of 223, I saw Hill, a cheerful, plain-spoken woman, putting away unclaimed gift bags in a supply closet. She was clearly frustrated by the school's indifferent parents. ''Even knowing that they're going to get two free bags of clothing from Dress Barn, we can't get one person -- not one person -- to come to a C.E.C.'' -- Community Education Council -- ''meeting,'' she said, shaking her head. ''At least we can say we're trying.''
In a sense, the education-reform movement is out to demonstrate that the backgrounds of students' families don't need to be changed in order to improve schools. As reformers see it, those who cite economic circumstances as an explanation for failing schools are playing into the very ''excuse-based culture'' that Klein was trying to dismantle.
Gonzalez has proved the reformers right, at least to an extent: his school is thriving without the benefit of consistently engaged, supportive parents. But as its English and math scores reveal, 223's success remains relative. It's also hard won. This should not come as a surprise. Studies dating to the 1960s have suggested that children's experiences inside the classroom are responsible for as little as 20 percent of their overall educational development. No less important is how they spend their evenings, their weekends, their vacations.
Gonzalez sees this firsthand every September, when tests show that many of his returning students have dropped a full grade level in reading over the summer. He is trying to reverse this trend by bringing parents into their children's lives at 223 in any way he can, whether it's through sporting events (one byproduct of the school's large Dominican population is a great baseball team), plays, recitals or classroom celebrations. ''We're trying to change a culture here,'' Gonzalez says. ''That's going to take time. That's going to take generations.''
Eric Lincoln, M.S. 223's assistant principal, spends the first three weeks of every school year registering about 40 unplanned-for students who have just been assigned to the school by the Department of Education. This is typically a high-needs group. It includes children from failing schools who are entitled to transfer to 223 (or any other middle school in good standing) under the No Child Left Behind statute as well as children whose families recently moved to the city or the neighborhood, often under duress.
Two weeks into the 2009-10 school year, Lincoln registered a seventh grader named Saquan Townsend. Saquan's family had been living in a project in East New York, Brooklyn, when their apartment was broken into by someone who thought that one of Saquan's half-brothers had been involved in a shooting. For safety reasons, Saquan's mother felt she needed to move her family as soon as possible, but she couldn't afford another apartment. The city placed them in a one-bedroom apartment in a homeless shelter in the South Bronx. Saquan has two older half-brothers, ages 20 and 18, and a 12-year-old brother with a learning disability caused by lead poisoning that he contracted at their old apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. For about a year, all four boys and their mother slept in the same room. Saquan's new zoned school was 223.
It didn't take Saquan long to develop a reputation as a kid who never did his homework, spoke disrespectfully to teachers and seemed unwilling to follow even the most basic instructions. He spoke in a deliberately provocative, high-pitched voice in the classroom -- some of his teachers called it ''the alien voice'' -- and raised his arms high up over his head in mock stretches to elicit laughter from classmates. Most of all, Saquan had a problem with absenteeism, missing more than 50 days over the course of the school year. ''Honestly, I thought there was some sort of mental disability or something weird going on,'' says Emily Dodd, who had Saquan for seventh-grade science last year.
One Friday, Dodd, a 25-year-old graduate of Oberlin College, asked Saquan to stay late to catch up on some assignments he missed. Working with him one on one, she quickly discovered how wrong she had been. ''I realized this kid is brilliant,'' she told me. ''He's an intellectual. His ability to think critically, to reason critically is on a very high level.''
Dodd started sending Saquan text messages every morning urging him to come to school. (''Get on the bus!!!'' she would write him when she first arrived at 223 at 7.) It took him three weeks to meet her initial challenge of making it on time a total of three days in a week. They celebrated the accomplishment with cheesecake, which Saquan had never eaten. ''Honestly, more than anything, I think he felt rewarded by being able to spend a half-hour with me on a Friday afternoon,'' Dodd says.
Having gotten the ''touch'' he needed from Dodd, Saquan's attendance and behavior gradually improved. He also began participating in some of 223's after-school programs. He was one of three students to join a new running club and was cast in a lead role in the school's production of ''West Side Story.'' Directed by Dodd, it was the first play performed in 223's building in years. (The stage curtain, having sat unused for so long, collapsed at the opening of the show.) Saquan missed a lot of the rehearsals, so many, in fact, that Dodd panicked and divided his part in two. When he was there, he was often disruptive, cracking jokes and distracting other cast members. ''But he was amazing in the performance,'' says Dodd, who recalls looking around the audience and seeing Saquan's mother in tears.
As recently as a few years ago, M.S. 223's bilingual-education program was the last place students or teachers wanted to be. Geared toward moving Spanish speakers into English-only classrooms as quickly as possible, it was known as a repository for slow learners. The perception became self-fulfilling, reinforced by the low expectations placed on students.
In an earlier era, Gonzalez would have been hard pressed to change this situation, as the school would have been required to use the city's bilingual-education curriculum. But Klein's reforms gave Gonzalez the freedom to try a different approach. In 2007, he asked a new teacher, Silvestre Arcos, to overhaul the program. Arcos mapped out a strategy to change virtually everything about bilingual education at 223, beginning with its primary aim. Rather than weaning children from their native tongues, the goal would be to develop and refine their Spanish skills as well as their English ones. Classes would be taught in both languages; the curriculum would include a course in which students hone their Spanish grammar and read Spanish literature.
The school's dual-language program, as it is known, is now the pride of 223, a magnet for strivers rather than a dumping ground for underperformers. This year, it was a finalist in a national bilingual-education competition run by the Spanish Embassy. Three hundred children applied for the 30 spots in next year's incoming sixth-grade class.
Evaluating teachers is an imperfect science, but by almost any measure Arcos is one of 223's finest. Gonzalez basically has to rig the school's Classroom of the Month award, based on academic performance, behavior and class preparedness, to prevent Arcos from winning it every time.
A stout, goateed 33-year-old, Arcos grew up in South Texas. His father, a Mexican immigrant who worked as a gas-station mechanic, was a middle-school dropout, but Arcos excelled in school, winning a full scholarship to Cornell. He spent four years at a Kipp charter school in Los Angeles before moving to New York to get his master's at Columbia. He considered teaching at a charter in New York while pursuing his degree but decided that the schedule would be too demanding to leave him time to study, so he came to 223 instead, bringing Kipp's philosophy with him. The walls of his classroom are adorned with Kipp slogans like ''All of us WILL learn'' and ''No shortcuts. No excuses.'' (Whatever ideological issues Gonzalez has with charter schools, their fingerprints are everywhere at 223, beginning with its decor: the school's hallways are lined with college pennants, a design innovation popularized by the charter movement.)
Arcos's classroom has a deceptively relaxed air. He stands casually at the front of the room, his hands stuffed in the pockets of his khakis, allowing students to banter as they figure out answers to his questions. But he works relentlessly, particularly during the early part of the school year, to create and reinforce academic expectations, discipline and accountability. At the start of classes, Arcos praises students who seat themselves quietly and take out their work without being asked. When he hands back quizzes or other assignments, he singles out students who ''met or exceeded expectations.'' Loud applause follows each name. All of his students, even the highest performers, are required to stay after school for tutoring.
I visited Arcos in his classroom one winter afternoon, the day after a huge snowstorm in New York. Even though the city's schools weren't closed, more than 50 percent of 223's students were absent. Arcos called all 12 of his 30 homeroom students who weren't there at the start of the day. Six of them came to school immediately. Arcos told me that he just received an e-mail from the United Federation of Teachers thanking its members for showing up at their jobs despite the storm. ''I was like, You've got to be kidding; you're praising people for coming to work on a day when they're supposed to?'' Arcos said. ''I thought that was ridiculous.''
As a public-school teacher, Arcos is required to be a member of the U.F.T., but he doesn't see eye to eye with the union on most issues. Among other things, he favors the public release of teacher-performance ratings, which the U.F.T. has been fighting aggressively to prevent. ''What kind of message are you sending to families and communities if you're like, We don't want those evaluations to be made public?'' he said. ''Are you basically saying your teachers are doing a terrible job?''
Arcos told me that he has been impressed by the dedication of many of his colleagues at 223. Still, he misses the uniform standards of his Kipp school. ''At Kipp, I wasn't worried that once my students left my math class and I sent them off to science or social studies or E.L.A. [English Language Arts] that they were going to fall apart, that the expectations weren't going to be there, academically, behaviorally, in terms of their intellectual habits,'' he said. ''Two years ago, when my sixth-grade math students left for seventh-grade math, they totally fell apart. After all of the hard work we did, they went from the top of the school in their math-test scores to the bottom. I took it pretty hard.'' Earlier this year, Arcos was thinking about returning to a charter school, but he recently decided to stay, swayed by his commitment to the dual-language program and his faith in Gonzalez's broader vision for the school.
Last summer, Saquan's family moved out of the shelter and into a small apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Saquan wanted to remain at 223 for eighth grade, even though that would mean getting up at 5:45 and making it to the subway by 6:15 for the one-and-a-half-hour commute to the South Bronx. If he stayed for after-school activities, he would not return home until after 6. Because his mother works nights, they would barely see each other. She would not yet be home when he had to leave for school and would be asleep when he returned.
I first met Saquan at a gathering of the Principal's Book Club. It was a Monday afternoon in December, and he was one of a dozen students arrayed around the conference table that dominates Gonzalez's office. Manuel Santos, Gonzalez's hulking executive assistant, doled out half-slices of pizza, as Gonzalez and the kids discussed ''Fallen,'' a young-adult novel about a group of fallen angels at a reform school. ''Probably the biggest critique you might have of our reading program is that we don't spend much time on the classics,'' Gonzalez says. ''I can live with that. I just want our kids to read.''
Toward that end, Gonzalez spends close to $200,000, or 5 percent, of his annual budget at Barnes and Noble on popular new books that are more likely to interest 223's students. The strategy worked with Saquan, who joined the Principal's Book Club last April, when the book of the month was ''The Hunger Games,'' which he had been wanting to read but couldn't find in his local library. He hadn't missed a meeting since then.
At 5-foot-3, Saquan is small for his grade, and his voice has not yet dropped, but his size 9 sneakers suggest a growth spurt in his near future. He is handsome, with smooth skin, a ''faded'' Afro that shoots straight up like a pencil eraser from his head, big, bright eyes and a sly smile. He poured himself a cup of orange soda and, slouching down low in his chair, said that he was annoyed by the book's main character, who obsesses endlessly over a boy without ever directly approaching him.
Several weeks later, I picked Saquan up at school and rode the subway home with him. He fiddled around with my iPhone as we talked, playing down his various activities and relationships at 223. (The play was ''kind of fun.'' Dodd was ''O.K.'') When we arrived at his building, his mom didn't invite me in -- she had left behind their furniture when they moved out of their place in East New York and still hadn't replaced it -- but suggested we get together after school the following day at an IHOP in Brooklyn.
When we met, Saquan's mom, Tonya Henry, was operating on just a few hours of sleep. A tiny woman with dreadlocks and dark circles under her eyes, she had returned home that morning from her shift answering phones at a car-service company in Queens and gone directly to a dental clinic with Saquan to get one of his teeth pulled.
Saquan gingerly chewed his pancakes, cutting off pieces of turkey sausage to share with his mother. At one point, he told his mom with obvious pride that he'd been invited to join an after-school math program at 223 that could be applied toward his high-school credits. ''You gonna do it?'' his mom asked, disinterestedly. ''Then do it.'' She went on to explain her less-than-enthusiastic response: ''I try to let him make his own decisions. Sometimes he gets upset with me. He wants me to have more input than I want to. He'll ask my opinion, and he'll say, 'Mom, why can't you just give me an answer?' I'll say: 'Listen, I don't want to say this, and I don't want to say that. You've got to make up your own mind.' ''
Saquan was one of 25 eighth graders at 223 who qualified for a prep course last summer for New York's specialized high-school test, used to determine admission to eight prestigious public high schools. (Run by Kaplan, the six-week course cost Gonzalez $8,000.) But even after the prep course, he was at a severe disadvantage. Some of 223's students who take the test have been preparing since sixth grade, attending another twice-weekly class on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons that the city offers free to poor students.
The test was given in late October, and the results were released in mid-February. For the first time in 223's history, one of its students was accepted at Bronx Science. Another got in to Brooklyn Tech. Saquan didn't score high enough to be admitted anywhere, leaving him in the regular, citywide high-school application process.
Saquan is at grade level in reading and above grade level in math, which is nothing short of remarkable given everything he has been through. Still, his transcript is hardly impressive, and the city's high schools place a great deal of weight on attendance records. What's more, without Dodd's full-time attention, Saquan's academic performance has faltered this year. At the end of February, he was failing social studies, having not completed any of his class projects, and was barely passing English. All of this might be mitigated by a proactive parent, the kind of mother or father who diligently researches the city's high schools until they find the right fit and a sympathetic principal. This is the sort of sophisticated shopper that Klein's consumer-driven system, with its emphasis on choice, would seem to depend on. But parents like this are in short supply at 223.
It's hard to disagree with the reform movement's insistence that poverty, like ignorant or apathetic parents, should not be accepted as an excuse for failing schools. But watching Saquan, it's just as hard to ignore the reality that poverty is an immutable obstacle in the path of improving public education, one that can't simply be swept aside by the rhetoric of raised expectations. Is it really a surprise that a child whose family had been forced to move into a homeless shelter where he was sharing a bedroom with his mother and three brothers was having trouble getting himself to school and was acting out in class? Is it realistic to think that demanding more of him and his teachers is all that is required?
In late February, after hearing about Saquan's poor grades, Dodd sought him out to encourage him to end the year strong. Even though he was no longer in any of her classes, she volunteered to personally tutor him to make sure he finished with only B's or better. ''Because he has never actually known what it feels like to get A's and B's, and because I know that he is capable of A's and B's, I want him to experience this before he gets to high school,'' Dodd wrote me in an e-mail in early March. ''He's totally into it and believes he can pull it off.'' By way of incentive, she was going to offer to give him and his mom tickets to a Broadway show.
Days after the meeting, though, Saquan stopped coming to school. A couple of 223's administrators called his house, as did Dodd, but they were unable to reach him or his mother. When Dodd finally managed to speak with Saquan in mid-March, he told her that he decided to transfer to his neighborhood middle school in Brooklyn.
In February, 223 received an unexpected visit from a space planner for the city. To Gonzalez, it seemed to be the equivalent of getting measured for his coffin. He figured that it could mean only one thing: a charter school was coming to his building.
Gonzalez was furious. ''You're impacting my community, and you're not even going to have a discussion with me?'' he said. It also made no sense to him. ''There are three, maybe four middle schools in our district with their heads above water,'' he told me. ''How are you not closing one of the failing schools and putting the charter there? Or better yet, you have a couple hundred more kids who need to be educated? Fine. Send them to me. I'll take them. Now I have to fight with the D.O.E., and those are the guys who are supposed to be helping me.''
Battles between incoming charter schools and reluctant public-school hosts have become a recurring motif on New York's education-reform landscape. The tension often carries over into the school year in the form of bickering over access to shared facilities like cafeterias and auditoriums.
To Gonzalez, though, the arrival of a charter would represent more than just an inconvenience. Not only would he lose the extra space that he deliberately carved out for teacher training and student guidance, but he also feared that a charter school could jeopardize his plans to expand 223 into a high school, perhaps even a boarding school. The idea, which he enlisted a class of students at New York University's Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service to help develop, is to create a nonprofit attached to the school and to purchase an abandoned building in the neighborhood that would be converted into a dormitory. It's a radical notion -- a public inner-city boarding school -- but it's also very much in keeping with Gonzalez's expansive vision for 223.
When Gonzalez first told me about the charter, I couldn't help sharing his outrage. It seemed a cruel joke, the most extreme example yet of him being punished for his success. From the city's perspective, however, Gonzalez's building doesn't belong to him or even, really, to the city. It belongs to the students. An opportunity to use it to create another potentially successful school is not one that the city can afford to miss.
Gonzalez did everything he could to have the charter placed elsewhere, arguing that, among other things, 223 had less unused space than several other middle schools in the district. (He also made it known to the D.O.E. that this article was in the works.) In late March, he received a reprieve. For at least another year, there would be no charter moving into 223's building.
The D.O.E. says that it was only considering a charter at 223 and that Gonzalez's lobbying was largely irrelevant to its final decision. Gonzalez says that his impression, from his interactions with the D.O.E., was that the charter had basically been a done deal. Either way, it was just another obstacle for Gonzalez to overcome, along with developing and retaining young teachers, engaging parents and getting free eye tests for his students.
During one of our last conversations, Gonzalez told me about a new eighth grader with a learning disability who recently turned up at 223. Already almost 16, the boy had earned the lowest possible score on both the reading and math portions of the state's standardized test. His mother had just moved to the neighborhood, and even though he was qualified to receive a host of free services connected to his disability that were not available at 223, she had heard good things about the school and waived her son's privileges so that he could attend it.
Hearing about the student and the challenges he would present, yet another hurdle in the endless row of them that make up the days at 223, made me exhausted. Gonzalez, who would have a matter of weeks to somehow get the boy ready for high school, had a completely different reaction. ''It's days like this that remind me why I get up in the morning,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2011; April 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 34 about Middle School 223 in the South Bronx and the reforms established by its principal, Ramon Gonzalez, misidentifies the New York University graduate school from which Mr. Gonzalez enlisted a class to help M.S. 223 develop a plan for a local boarding school. It is the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service, not the business school. The article also contains an outdated reference to Cathleen P. Black. On Thursday, after the article went to press, she resigned as schools chancellor of New York City.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 10 about Middle School 223 in the Bronx misstated the reasons the school does not qualify for some state financing earmarked for poorly performing schools. It does not meet some of New York State's criteria for failing schools and it is relatively successful on state tests and other measures. It is not because of the school's report card from New York City. The article also omitted an attribution for the increases in percentages of students at or above grade levels in math and English from 2006 to 2010. Those figures came from the New York City Department of Education, which did its own analysis of state testing data using 2010 proficiency levels for 2006 test scores. (Without that adjustment, the percentage of proficient learners in both math and English actually dropped from 2006 to 2010.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM34-MM35)
THE PROGRAM: Keeping students energized at M.S. 223, even during warmups before phys ed class. (MM37)
THE TEACHERS: After investing in teachers like Emily Dodd and Garrett Adler, Gonzalez worries about losing them to other schools. (MM38
MM39)
 THE STUDENT: At fi rst thought by one teacher to have a learning disability, Saquan Townsend revealed a great intellect when challenged. (MM40) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF RIEDEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); EYE TESTING (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



240 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
BESIEGED GBAGBO FORCES
HOLD ON IN IVORY COAST
Even as Ivory Coast's strongman, Laurent Gbagbo, remained under seige in the presidential residence, his forces regained territory in the main city, repelled a French military operation overnight and recaptured state television and radio, which broadcast messages reassuring the country that Mr. Gbagbo was still there. PAGE 14
IRAQIS PROTEST U.S. FORCE
A day after Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates suggested that American troops could remain here for years, tens of thousands of protesters allied with Moktada al-Sadr, the radical anti-American Shiite cleric, flooded the streets demanding an end to the American military presence in Iraq. PAGE 5 
DEATH ON BRITISH SUB
The Mirror, Britain's newest nuclear submarine, was moored at the dockside in Southampton harbor when a crewmember posted as a sentry opened fire with an automatic weapon in the boat's control room and killed its weapons engineering officer. Another officer was wounded and was listed in stable condition. The police gave no motive for the attack. PAGE 15
EX-OFFICER JOLTS PERU RACE
In a Peruvian presidential campaign field full of wild cards, Ollanta Humala, a nationalist former military officer who led a thwarted army revolt in 2000, has emerged as a strong front-runner and injected fresh uncertainty into the Andean nation's political system. PAGE 15
QADDAFI FORCES ATTACK CITY
Military forces loyal to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi attacked the outer gate of Ajdabiya, bringing the front line of the battle with Libyan opposition forces back to the doorstep of the strategically critical rebel city. PAGE 12
National
ALL OF A WAR'S TRAPPINGS,
WITH ACCURACY AT STAKE
If the period leading to the outbreak of the Civil War was a confusing patch in American history, the threat of a government shutdown threw the spirited preparations for a commemoration of the Confederate attack on Fort Sumter 150 years later into almost as much chaos. PAGE 24
BOMB IN SYNAGOGUE BLAST
An explosion first thought to be an industrial accident outside a synagogue and community center was caused by a homemade explosive device, the authorities said, and the police have identified a suspect. PAGE 18
WORKERS DIE IN EXPLOSION
Two workers were killed and two others are presumed dead in an explosion in a fireworks storage bunker in Waipahu, Hawaii, a suburb of Honolulu. Two more workers were injured in the blast, which scorched trees and bushes 40 feet away, the authorities said. PAGE 20
METROPOLITAn
VOODOO, SPIRITUAL ANCHOR,
RISES AGAIN IN CITY
Long misunderstood and maligned in Western popular culture, voodoo has become a spiritual anchor in New York City's vast Haitian community and in Haitian enclaves across the country as practitioners look for comfort after the devastating earthquake in the impoverished Caribbean nation last year. PAGE 1
A FINAL ANTI-DEBT CRUSADE
At 84, the long-time fiscal hawk Peter G. Peterson embodies the long term, especially where the national debt is concerned. He has been talking about the subject for more than 30 years. PAGE 1
SPORTS
HALL OF FAMERS STRUGGLE
TO CAPTURE MASTERS
The list of golfers who have risen to the pinnacle of No. 1 in the world but failed to win a Masters, despite doing all within their considerable power to do so, is impressive. It includes Hall of Famers: Greg Norman, Nick Price, Johnny Miller, Ernie Els and Curtis Strange. PAGE 1
SHOULD CATCHERS MOONLIGHT?
A catcher with exceptional offensive talent, like Joe Mauer of the Minnesota Twins, is a rarity in baseball, and a luxury. But what happens when the luxury becomes a necessity? If a catcher is too productive, a team feels his absence on the days he needs to rest. PAGE 2
COURT OF PUBLIC OPINION
The trial of Barry Bonds has always been more than a simple case of pursuing a bad guy and proving that he lied. The chase and the subsequent trial have been about a baseball era driven by vanity and greed and fueled by performance-enhancing drugs, but also reflects America's discomfort with prominent, powerful, wealthy black men, writes Bill Rhoden. PAGE 2
FREEDARKO GOES DARK
After countless posts and two successful books about the N.B.A., the blog, FreeDarko, will publish its final post Monday. Mainstays Nathaniel Friedman (a k a Bethlehem Shoals) and Jacob Weinstein, who will be going on to other pursuits, took some time to discuss the site and its impact. PAGE 5
FOREBODING IN SACRAMENTO
The Kings arrived in Sacramento, by way of Kansas City, to great fanfare in 1985. The Maloof family, which owns controlling interest in the Kings, is deep in negotiations to move the franchise to Anaheim by next season. Sacramento fans, bracing for the biggest loss of all, are already talking about their team in the past tense. PAGE 1
Sunday Business
DISNEY REVIVING MUPPETS
WITH MOVIE THIS FALL
Once international superstars, Jim Henson's Muppets have not had a major box-office hit since 1979 years or a regular TV gig in two decades. Recent efforts at remaking the characters failed, but Disney is giving another chance to Kermit, Miss Piggy and the rest of the gang, without the talk of new tie-in theme park rides, TV specials, elaborate lines of related merchandise or the other trappings of a companywide franchise. This time, it all boils down to making a hit movie scheduled for a Thanksgiving release. Page 1
EXECUTIVE DROUGHT IS OVER
Happy days are here again, at least in the boardroom. At a time when millions of Americans are trying to hang on to homes and millions more are trying to hang on to jobs, paycheck for the chief executives of major corporations like 3M, General Electric and Cisco Systems are growing again -- in many cases, significantly so. Page 1
HOW HIGH CAN IT GO?
Before the recent recession, many economists believed that the lowest sustainable rate of unemployment in the United States -- a level known as the normal or natural rate of unemployment -- was around 5 percent. The turmoil of the last few years, however, has shaken up the economy. Is it possible that it has affected the natural rate of unemployment -- increasing it to 8 or even 9 percent? Economic View. Page 5
Automobiles
TO BE TRULY MUST-HAVE,
CAR MUST BE EXCLUSIVE
More than speed a top speed beyond 200 miles per hour, admission to the pantheon inhabited by the likes of the Ferrari Enzo or the Lamborghini Murcielago seems now to hinge on exclusivity -- annual production no greater than the hundreds, ideally, and a price tag that crowds half a million dollars. Sports, Page 9
Arts & Leisure
DESPITE PAST SUCCESS,
ONE STAR'S UNCERTAIN FUTURE
Will Ferrell's short-term commitment as Steve Carrell's replacement on the NBC hit ''The Office'' comes with its burdens. As he wrapped a four-episode turn, Mr. Ferrell was still wondering where he fit into the show, and what awaited him in the world beyond Dunder Mifflin's doors. Page 1
ACTOR, COMEDIAN, DANCER
Actor and comedian John Leguizamo draws from the dances of the decades (and a movie star or two) in his Broadway show ''Ghetto Klown.'' Page 5
Magazine
PRINCIPAL WORKS TO SUCCEED
AGAINST FORCES OF REFORM
Middle School 223 in the South Bronx is a testament to the former New York City schools chancellor Joel Klein's success: empower the right principals, in this case Ramon Gonzalez, and watch them bloom. Yet even as the school reform made it possible for Mr. Gonzalez to succeed, it also seems in many ways set up to make him fail. Page 34
PAPA DOESN'T PREACH
Mario Cuomo would be the perfect elder statesman, if only his son's generation wanted one. Page 26
Editorial
BANKS OFF THE HOOK AGAIN
New agreements between banks and federal regulators are unlikely to curb foreclosures.
Week in Review, Page 9
JUSTICE KAGAN DISSENTS
Justice Elena Kagan powerfully dissents in a ruling that makes it easier for states to promote religion.
Week in Review, Page 9
WHERE'S THE INVESTIGATION?
The public has a right to know if Representative Maxine Waters violated Congressional ethics rules.
Week in Review, Page 9
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
The budget battle has been a painful demonstration of recklessness and callousness by our lawmakers.
Week in Review, Page 11
MAUREEN DOWD
Bob Dylan and the apparatchiks: the High Priest of Protest should reread some of his own lyrics.
Week in Review, Page 10
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
An extraordinary run of world events and the demands of the digital world are keeping the pressure on The Times's foreign desk.
Week in Review, Page 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); POLITICS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (69%); ENGINEERING (68%); EARTHQUAKES (68%); HISTORY (63%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (60%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (56%); ROBERT M GATES (56%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) COTE D'IVOIRE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); PERU (92%); FRANCE (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



241 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes a Big-Time Communications Guy Will Actually Communicate

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
David Axelrod concedes that he has a touch of Potomac fever, a malady in which the victim struggles with the notion that there's life beyond the nation's capital.
''It's a narcotic,'' he told a Chicago audience last week as he engagingly recounted two years as a top aide to President Obama, his desk just a few paces from the Oval Office. ''It's exhilarating.'' 
I wasn't surprised by his candid self-diagnosis regarding his return home from Washington. The capital, he said, is a city whose ''pathology I hate'' -- ''the biggest echo chamber in the world''-- but whose cachet can't be discounted.
After all, Mr. Axelrod has been a central participant in a period that some historians liken to the New Deal for its eventful essence, replete with an awful recession, the economic stimulus program, three wars, the bailout of auto companies, huge health care overhaul and other less-noticed but big changes, like the end of unjustified multibillion-dollar subsidies to banks involved in student loans.
It's not quite the same now, even as Mr. Axelrod remains in the Obama inner circle, a central strategist for the 2012 re-election campaign and a 24/7 consigliere to the West Wing, be it by phone, e-mail or actual visits. A conversation with me before a City Club luncheon audience on Thursday brought the rueful admission that no, he's not in the same information loop.
For those who have known him, it was a reminder of vulnerabilities -- characteristic admissions all the more refreshing amid huge success and a celebrity's profile. They come in a world in which at least a facade of supreme self-confidence, even among fools, can be a prerequisite for success in the public and corporate arenas.
Mr. Axelrod has long spoken about his persistent struggle with balancing family and an intense professional life, of being on the road so often and missing his three children, now all adults, including a daughter with epilepsy who lives at the esteemed Misericordia.
On Father's Day 2006 he wrote a wrenching op-ed article in The Chicago Tribune that broke his 30-year public silence on his father's suicide.
And the newly svelte Mr. Axelrod, who has lost 25 pounds, was quick to tick off the subjects that were part of a steep learning curve after he arrived at the White House. ''I know more about economics, pandemics and deep-sea oil drilling than I ever knew,'' he said. ''Every day I was confronting things that were new.''
We hopscotched among topics. He explained that he had worked for Rod R. Blagojevich when he ran for Congress but not for governor because Mr. Blagojevich ''couldn't really articulate for me why'' he wanted to run. He contrasted him with Mayor Richard M. Daley, whom he worked for and admires, and Mayor-elect Rahm Emanuel, who he believes has ''a genius for government.''
And Mr. Axelrod detailed why new census data gives Mr. Obama's bid for re-election hope even in states recently captured by Republicans.
He talked about all of this with Bettylu Salzman, a longtime friend and Chicago political activist, sitting nearby. Her presence reminded me of Mr. Axelrod's own savvy because, as he often notes, she pointed him to a then virtually unknown Mr. Obama in 1992 and said she thought he'd be the first black president.
But many others said similar things about Mr. Obama. It was Mr. Axelrod, the often-rumpled Bulls fan and former Tribune political writer and columnist, who first discerned how it might happen. He melded theory with execution, which was a simple, profound achievement.
In 1984, at age 29, Mr. Axelrod, frustrated with Tribune life, rolled the dice and joined Paul Simon's successful campaign for the United States Senate. He's perceptive about the news media and politics, and is a disciplined spokesman for Mr. Obama, even in defending decisions like acting in Libya.
He chides the news media for its penchant for announcing ''defining moments'' in the Obama presidency, like the BP oil spill. As for his own defining moment in the administration, that indisputably involves his father, who fled Eastern European pogroms and arrived in this country in 1923.
In July 2009, Mr. Axelrod accompanied his boss to Russia and, hand over heart and tears in eyes, listened to a Russian military band playing our national anthem in Red Square. The next day would have been his father's 99th birthday, he said last week at the luncheon, co-sponsored by the Chicago News Cooperative.
''What an affirmation of his faith and his faith in this country that his son would return at the side of the president of the United States!'' Mr. Axelrod said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); SUICIDE (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); EPILEPSY (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); HISTORY (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (52%); OIL EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: DAVID AXELROD (89%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



242 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Flexing After an Energy Boost

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
OIL and gas stocks helped propel the returns of three of the top-performing mutual funds in the first quarter. Only one of the three -- the Fidelity Select Energy Portfolio-- is, by charter, a dedicated energy investor. The others -- the FPA Capital fund and the Metzler/Payden European Emerging Markets fund -- have more freedom to roam, but their managers unearthed values in the sector and seized them.
Rebound for Refiners
For John P. Dowd, manager of Fidelity Select Energy, bets on refiners of crude oil have helped power double-digit returns of late. American refiners like Frontier Oil and the Holly Corporation, which recently agreed to merge, were a contrarian bet when he started to accumulate them, he said. Some analysts had believed that domestic oil demand had permanently peaked, leaving excess refinery capacity. 
''As a result, the business of taking crude oil and turning it into gasoline was viewed as unprofitable, and these companies were very cheap,'' Mr. Dowd said. Tough times winnowed the sector, and survivors streamlined their operations. Rebounding demand has brought renewed profits.
The energy industry is more international than many, but Mr. Dowd's fund has a domestic slant by plan. All of its top 10 holdings at the end of February were listed in the United States. The largest, at a hefty 16 percent of assets, was Exxon Mobil. That investment may seem oversized -- many funds' holdings of individual stocks top out at about 5 percent -- but Mr. Dowd said the stake reflected the quality and breadth of the business. Exxon drills for oil and gas, is the world's largest oil refiner and is a chemical producer.
''During the recession, Exxon was viewed as a safe haven, and it got very expensive,'' he said. ''So at one point, the fund owned no Exxon. But it's no longer expensive.'' In early April, Exxon Mobil had a forward price-to-earnings multiple of about 10, making it less expensive than the average company in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
In the first quarter, Mr. Dowd's fund, which has $3 billion in assets, returned 18 percent. It has an expense ratio of 0.9 percent. He has managed it since 2006.
Big Bets and Cash
Like Mr. Dowd, Dennis M. Bryan and Rikard B. Ekstrand, co-managers of the FPA Capital fund, are willing to bet big: their fund held only 20 stocks at the end of 2010. Even more striking, it had a huge amount of cash -- 30 percent of its $1.4 billion in assets.
Stock fund managers are often reluctant to sock away that much cash. Mr. Bryan and Mr. Ekstrand said their stake wasn't an investment per se but accumulated because they recently have found few stocks cheap enough to risk buying. They want only shares they gauge to be ''absolutely cheap,'' not just less expensive than competitors or the market as a whole, Mr. Ekstrand said.
''We're looking for a stock selling at substantial discount to what we think it's worth,'' he said. ''We don't want to buy stuff where we think there's only a 20 percent upside.''
In doing their research, they pay particular attention to balance-sheet strength, which shows the ease with which a company can pay its bills and invest in its business. ''If a company has a bad balance sheet, it'll tend to do desperate things when it comes under pressure, like issuing stock or high-interest-rate debt,'' Mr. Ekstrand said.
Lately, Mr. Bryan and Mr. Ekstrand have found fare that is cheap but sturdy in the energy sector. Among the fund's top 10 holdings in December were shares of five energy-related companies, including its biggest holding, Ensco, a British oil driller. FPA Capital typically has an annual turnover rate of only 20 percent, versus about 90 percent for the average stock fund.
The managers' hard-core value hunting also led them to an often-overlooked sector: railcars. The fund accumulated a stake in Trinity Industries, a big American railcar maker, during the financial crisis.
Like many companies, Trinity was hurt by the recession and it reported a loss in 2009. But the company's fortunes rebounded with the economy, and Trinity returned 38.1 percent in the first quarter.
FPA Capital returned 13.2 percent for the period; it carries an expense ratio of 0.86 percent. Mr. Bryan and Mr. Ekstrand have been part of the fund's management team since 2007, when they joined Robert L. Rodriguez, who had overseen it since 1984.
Eyes on Eastern Europe
At first glance, a fund specializing in Eastern Europe might not seem a natural home for oil stocks. After all, the region, as defined by the Metzler/Payden European Emerging Markets fund, stretches from the bazaars of Turkey to the Baltic shores of Estonia. But look again, and the reason becomes obvious. Russia dwarfs the rest of the economies in the region, and energy is that country's dominant industry.
Thus the Metzler/Payden fund holds big stakes in large Russian energy outfits like Lukoil, Gazprom and Rosneft. The three accounted for nearly 19 percent of the fund's $176 million in assets at the end of February. Over all, Russian investments made up more than half of the portfolio.
The fund's lead manager, Markus Bruck, said that preponderance was unusual, ''a historic high for us,'' as he typically aims to invest no more than 30 to 40 percent of his shareholders' money in Russia. He also says he tries to distinguish his fund by defining Eastern Europe more broadly than competitors who emphasize only Russia, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
A broader mandate means better diversification opportunities, he said. So, while his fund owns a Russian electronics retailer -- M.Video -- it has also invested in Tallink, a ferry operator in Estonia. Tallink's ships crisscross the Baltic Sea, connecting Estonia's capital, Tallinn, with such places as Helsinki and Stockholm.
In the last few years, emerging markets have been in vogue among investors. But much of the attention has been directed to Asia, especially China and India, not Eastern Europe. Even Russia, which represents the ''R'' in the ballyhooed BRIC countries, has not attracted the interest that Brazil, China and India have.
Mr. Bruck said that overlooking Eastern Europe would be a mistake. Much of the region offers emerging-market growth with some of the safeguards for investors in Western companies, he said. ''You have the rules of the E.U., which brings relatively high safety compared with the Asian emerging markets,'' he said. ''And E.U. authorities are strongly supporting development in the region.''
His fund returned 10.4 percent in the first quarter and has an expense ratio of 1.5 percent. He has managed it since 2002.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John P. Dowd of the Fidelity Select Energy Portfolio had a great first quarter, bolstered by investments in refiners of crude oil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C. J. GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
In researching companies, Dennis Bryan, left, and Rikard Ekstrand of the FPA Capital fund emphasize balance-sheet health. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Russian oil gains aided the European emerging-market portfolio led by Markus Bruck. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEBASTIAN HARTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Three Highfliers of the First Quarter: Three funds that outperformed the overall market -- and their peer groups of stock funds -- in the first quarter. (Sources: Morningstar, Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); PLANT CAPACITY (53%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); FMR CORP (92%); HOLLYFRONTIER CORP (83%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); HFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



243 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: President Adopts a Measured Course to Recapture the Middle

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama opened the week by calling on Democrats to embrace his re-election campaign. He closed it by praising Republicans for forging a compromise to cut spending this year and avert a government shutdown.
The juxtaposition made clearer than ever the more centrist governing style Mr. Obama has adopted since his party's big losses in November and his recapture-the-middle strategy for winning a second term.
But in agreeing Friday night to what he called the largest annual spending cut in the nation's history, the president further decoupled himself from his party in Congress, exacerbating concerns among some Democrats about whether he is really one of them and is willing to spend political capital to defend their principles on bigger battles ahead.
The question of where Mr. Obama's bottom line is on Democratic priorities will be that much more urgent to his party as House Republicans, energized by their success in resetting the terms of the debate in Washington, press an aggressive conservative agenda in the coming months that includes deeper spending cuts and a fundamental reshaping of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 
The president may be viewed as liberal by some of his conservative critics, but to the traditional base of the Democratic Party he is often seen as not liberal enough. As details of the budget agreement came to light on Saturday, the first criticism came from the left, with Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., Democrat of Illinois, accusing the president of ''keeping the government open on the backs of the poor and disenfranchised.''
Even before the battle over this year's budget, many liberals were concerned that Mr. Obama's sponsorship of a fiscal commission that recommended changes to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid suggested a willingness on his part to go further than they would like in rethinking the social welfare system.
David Plouffe, a senior adviser to the president, dismissed the criticism and urged Democrats to ''consume the details of this.''
''The easy thing to do is to go in your corner and throw political spitballs,'' Mr. Plouffe said in an interview Saturday. ''There are going to be plenty of times when you won't be able to reach common ground and you have to be in pugilistic mode, but you can't view any kind of agreement with the other side as weakness.''
The White House is hoping voters will view compromising and trying to reach consensus as signs of mature leadership in a partisan environment, not weakness -- the attribute Republicans lawmakers and potential presidential candidates are most frequently trying to attach to Mr. Obama.
After Republicans found success casting Mr. Obama as a reflexive liberal intent on expanding the reach of government, the president has sought to reintroduce himself as a pragmatic leader more attuned to the political center than to the ideologies of left or right. He has talked about this brand of politics for years, but now his challenge is to employ it.
In his handling of the closing stages of the budget negotiations, he portrayed himself more as a mediator urging the two parties to do their jobs than as another Democrat at the table. As he did in December in agreeing to extend the Bush tax cuts in return for some economic stimulus measures, he proved willing to trade some of his party's priorities in order to secure others.
Polls regularly suggest that the independent and moderate voters -- particularly women -- who abandoned Democrats in 2010 prefer compromise to partisan feuding, and in that sense Mr. Obama has an opportunity to win back an important segment of the coalition that sent him to the White House.
''I would not have made these cuts in better circumstances,'' Mr. Obama said Saturday in his weekly radio and Internet address. ''But we also prevented this important debate from being overtaken by politics and unrelated disagreements on social issues.''
The agreement the president reached with Speaker John A. Boehner and Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, represented one of the most dramatic moments of his presidency and a sharp break from the historical parallel of the 1995 showdown between President Bill Clinton and Speaker Newt Gingrich. Unlike their predecessors, Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner decided that the peril of allowing a government shutdown -- and all its accompanying political and economic fallout -- was too great not to agree on middle ground.
The announcement carried all the cornerstones of a campaign theme: Mr. Obama brings people together and rises above politics at a moment when Americans face all manner of challenges. Yet the elements of the deal also underscore the tensions alive in the Obama coalition.
The president's advisers argued that the broad coalition of supporters who gave Mr. Obama 53 percent of the popular vote and 365 electoral votes in 2008 never completely matched up with the traditional Democratic base. Heading into his re-election campaign and big legislative battles centering on the 2012 budget and the need to raise the federal debt ceiling, he is now well positioned to appeal to the political center even as his allies make the case that the current Republican Party is so extreme that liberals will ultimately get behind him as the best alternative.
Mr. Obama not only helped avoid the first government shutdown in 15 years, but also pressured Republicans to remove provisions intended to restrict financing for Planned Parenthood and to limit environmental regulations. In doing so, he assumed the role of a level-headed referee, rising above the squabbling to take ownership of a solution rather than a problem.
''He's the undisputed grownup in the group,'' said Jim Jordan, a Democratic strategist who has managed Senate and presidential campaigns across the country. ''Presidents almost always compare well against Congress.''
The president is not, however, the only figure who survived a test from within his own party last week and emerged stronger.
Mr. Boehner, who faced an even bigger challenge than Mr. Obama, held his fractious Republican contingent together as an intense feud raged among social conservatives, the Tea Party movement and other elements of the party. But a fresh air of discipline coursed through the Republican conference, with few members speaking out against their speaker.
The budget showdown, which inched perilously close to an actual shutdown, drew attention to the ways the president's leadership style had evolved from the early days when he often seemed deeply involved in legislative negotiations, focusing as much on details as on building a broad narrative case for his presidency. In this case, he increased his direct involvement in the negotiations in the final days, but for months let his advisers handle the details.
When an agreement was finally reached late Friday evening, Mr. Obama did not immediately rush to the cameras that had been waiting for hours. He did not proceed until Mr. Boehner had consulted Republican members, fearful that trumpeting the fragile deal from the White House could threaten it.
While Mr. Reid, Mr. Boehner and their allies traded incendiary charges throughout the final stages of the impasse -- with each side racing to frame the debate -- the president kept a distance. He prodded both sides in late-night appearances in the White House briefing room, never passing on the chance to seize the bully pulpit, but he did not publicly engage in the back-and-forth sniping that characterized the final days of the Congressional negotiations.
His message throughout the process was focused on the need to get results -- an approach that seems to have induced some concern among Republicans that Mr. Obama has regained his political footing.
Karl Rove, the political strategist to President George W. Bush, reminded Republicans in his weekly newsletter of how Mr. Clinton benefited politically from the government shutdown on his watch, particularly from voters who perceived Mr. Clinton as a strong leader. He suggested that the same could happen to Mr. Obama.
''Republicans should be careful,'' Mr. Rove said, ''to not let him recover as he gears up for his 2012 re-election campaign.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama visited the Lincoln Memorial on Saturday, a day after a budget deal that kept the government open. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); HISTORY (70%); MEDICAID (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (54%); JESSE JACKSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



244 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Concessions And Tension, Then a Deal

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and HELENE COOPER; Reporting was contributed by Jackie Calmes, Carl Hulse, Jennifer Steinhauer and Jeff Zeleny.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At one crucial moment in the game of chicken over a looming shutdown of the United States government, President Obama and the House speaker, John A. Boehner, faced off in the Oval Office. Mr. Boehner, a Republican heavily outnumbered in the room by Democrats, was demanding a provision to restrict financing to Planned Parenthood and other groups that provide abortions. Mr. Obama would not budge.
''Nope. Zero,'' the president said to the speaker. Mr. Boehner tried again. ''Nope. Zero,'' Mr. Obama repeated. ''John, this is it.'' A long silence followed, said one participant in the meeting. ''It was just like an awkward, 'O.K., well, what do you do now?' ''
That meeting broke without an agreement. But while Mr. Obama may have held tough on the abortion provision, he and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, had already made a broader concession -- agreeing to tens of billions of dollars in spending cuts that would have been unthinkable had Republicans not captured control of the House from Democrats in midterm elections last year. 
For Mr. Boehner, the deal represents an early showcase of negotiating prowess, and an ability to balance the clamor of staunch conservatives in his party, who have little desire to compromise with Democrats, with the political imperative of securing real accomplishments. Even some Democrats said that in a deeply divided Washington, Mr. Boehner's negotiations over this past chaotic week harked back to a time when party leaders were more willing to give ground and do business with each other.
''I don't like his legislation, but I like the way he is running the House,'' Mr. Reid said in an interview Saturday.
Though Mr. Boehner won significant ground and the applause of his caucus, his approach this week -- like Mr. Obama's -- carries the risk that some will view him as too conciliatory, as illustrated by the 54 Republicans who voted against an earlier temporary spending bill, forcing the speaker to rely on votes from Democrats to get it through.
Both sides are declaring some victories, and details of the full impact of the cuts have yet to emerge. But interviews with White House and Congressional officials involved in the tense negotiations show just how down to the wire things got, and how up until virtually the last minute, officials at the highest levels were uncertain that they could prevent a remarkable shuttering of the government during wartime and a fragile economic recovery.
In the end, with the clock ticking toward a midnight Friday deadline, the White House sessions and the flurry of telephone calls between the president and the speaker gave way to a meeting of little-known aides at the Capitol, where a tentative deal was clinched Friday evening on roughly $38 billion in reductions for the balance of this fiscal year. That amounts to what the president himself acknowledged would be ''the biggest annual spending cut in history.''
Several times White House and Democratic Congressional officials said they believed they had a deal; several times they were wrong. Republican officials said they were clear all along that nothing was set in stone until everything was agreed upon. On Friday afternoon, with television networks presenting clocks ticking down the minutes, an aide began setting up for a news conference in the White House Blue Room. Reporters and photographers were sequestered there, with hints that an announcement was imminent. They were there for six hours, as negotiations continued and the deal at times seemed as if it might fall apart.
In all, during the last four days of the budget showdown, Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner spent more time with each other -- in person and on the phone -- than they had during the entire course of Mr. Obama's presidency.
Their first White House meeting of the week took place Tuesday, but it ran aground.
After returning from giving a speech in New York the following day, Mr. Obama met again with Mr. Boehner and Mr. Reid. The two sides were closer, but the ''riders'' -- policy changes like the Planned Parenthood funding change -- were now on the table.
Mr. Obama asked that they go through the riders one by one. A White House aide, Rob Nabors, dashed out of the Oval Office with a stack of 40 riders, and headed to a Xerox machine, ''while the rest of us sat around waiting for the copies,'' a senior White House official said. Mr. Boehner even joked at one point, chiding Mr. Obama about how he might want to find faster copier machines, prompting the president to mime cranking out a mimeograph.
During the frantic final 12 hours Friday, Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner were on the phone four times. The most pivotal came at 11:15 a.m.
The night before, during a 90-minute meeting at the White House, Mr. Obama believed that he had made a breakthrough in the negotiations, when he told Mr. Boehner that he would sign on to spending cuts of roughly $38 billion -- $5 billion more than he had offered two days earlier.
This was a major concession. But the offer was contingent on two things: that some of the additional cuts would come from areas that Mr. Obama had already indicated he was willing to do without, and that Mr. Boehner understood that Democrats would never agree to cutting federal funds for family planning programs.
Mr. Boehner, White House officials say, agreed to the money part, leading them to believe that a breakthrough had been reached. And the two men sent their negotiators to Mr. Boehner's office on Capitol Hill to hammer out the details. But by 3 a.m., it was clear that what White House aides believed had happened in the Oval Office was not agreed upon by all sides, prompting White House officials to write a formal offer that they believed reflected the understanding they believed they had reached.
Later Friday morning, the reply came from Mr. Boehner, ''north of the amount we'd offered the night before,'' a senior administration official said.
An angry Mr. Obama called Mr. Boehner at 11:15. ''He just thought things were going off the rails,'' said one White House official said. (Mr. Boehner would later point to the president's anger in private meetings with his allies, using it as evidence that he was taking a tough line.)
That conversation, Mr. Obama's aides said, lasted five minutes: ''The president said, 'I'm the president of the United States, you're the speaker of the House,' '' one senior White House official recalled, offering the White House's view of events. ''He said: 'We're the two most responsible leaders right now. We had a conversation last night, and what I'm hearing now doesn't reflect that.' ''
David Plouffe, a senior adviser to the president, called the phone exchange the ''diciest time'' in the talks, adding that Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner had a ''frank and honest discussion that got things back on track.''
Congressional Republican aides said the White House voiced frustration at several points about the pace of negotiations, and credited Mr. Reid's office with pushing back against efforts to set deadlines other than the only one that mattered.
As some White House aides were preparing to be furloughed at midnight, others were working on the final terms of a deal.
And by evening, with a shutdown just hours away, Congressional aides said they had finally secured a tentative agreement.
Still, after 8 p.m., House Republicans at the Capitol were looking to rework some details. Charles Houy, the Democratic staff director of the Senate Appropriations Committee, arrived alone, carrying a pad. ''We're not going to do this,'' Mr. Houy told his House Republican colleagues. ''Look at the time. It's now or never folks.''
Mr. Boehner went into a 9:45 p.m. meeting with his restive caucus, in the Capitol basement, and began selling the deal, while his chief of staff, Barry Jackson; Mr. Reid's chief of staff, David Krone; and Mr. Nabors, the president's top Congressional liaison, in an office four floors above, shook hands on a final agreement.
The speaker faced an audience of rank-and-file lawmakers, who had picked up Cheez-It crackers, Nutter Butter cookies, soda and other snacks on the way in.
After laying out the details, Mr. Boehner was greeted with applause from his colleagues, many of whom quickly declared victory.
It was now pushing 10:30 p.m. and at nearly the same moment Mr. Krone's and Mr. Nabors's phones buzzed with calls from their bosses -- ''both of them wanting to know what the hell was going on,'' according to a senior official who was present.
What was going on was the end of a long, complicated, high-pressure standoff that in the end was just a preview of even fiercer fights to come as the White House and Congressional Republicans turn to battling over the full-year budget for 2012.
House Republicans were forced to drop many policy demands from the short-term budget bill, though they are likely to re-emerge in the coming months. But in addition to the big spending cuts, they won several points, including a limited restriction on the use of local taxpayer funds for abortion in Washington, D.C., and the reinstatement of a school voucher program in the capital, a personal priority of Mr. Boehner.
''By my math, it's about 79 percent of what we wanted,'' said Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the Budget Committee and architect of the Republicans' longer-term fiscal proposal, which includes more than $4 trillion in reductions. Mr. Ryan's aggressive budget proposal earlier in the week helped soothe some of the most combative Republican freshmen by reminding them that the more consequential fiscal negotiations lie ahead.
It remains to be seen whether the time the president and the speaker spent together will translate into an ability to work through even more difficult deficit and debt fights ahead.
''A very important predicate has been made here that the speaker, the president, the vice president and the Senate majority leader can do business together,'' Mr. Plouffe said. ''The trust was increased. The knowledge was increased.''
Deal Draws Objections in Capital
WASHINGTON -- District of Columbia officials expressed outrage on Saturday about two provisions of the budget deal between Democrats and Republicans, saying they dictate how the capital should spend money. One bans it from using its own locally raised funds to pay for abortions for poor women. The second is a federally financed school voucher program, which city officials said was unnecessary because 40 percent of students already go to public charter schools.
''It's unbelievable,'' Mayor Vincent C. Gray said. ''The District of Columbia is again being used as a pawn in partisan politics.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With a shutdown averted, President Obama and his Secret Service detail took a quick trip to visit tourists at the Lincoln Memorial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE THEILER/REUTERS) (A1)
 With the government running on Saturday, Christopher Gwinn of the National Park Service joined the cherry blossom parade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. J. KIRKPATRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ABORTION (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (91%); HARRY REID (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



245 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2773 words

HEADLINE: PAPA DOESN'T PREACH

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
You would think that Mario Cuomo would have been proud to watch his son Andrew sworn in as governor of New York last New Year's Eve, ascending to the job his old man held for 12 years. Apparently, you would be wrong.
''You really want to know how I felt?'' the elder Cuomo asked me last month. I nodded. ''Yeah? Everybody says the obvious thing, which is, 'You must be so proud.' Matilda'' -- his wife of nearly 57 years -- ''says that all the time. 'I'm so proud of Andrew.' She says, 'You never say you're proud.'
''And I say: 'Matilda, you want to do me a favor? Let's go to the dictionary. And you know what I think ''proud'' means? ''Proud'' means you're saying something good about yourself.' She says, 'C'mon, what a pain in the . . . ' -- and then she selected a body part of myself that I don't want to mention. But I think it's true. In my dictionary, 'pride' means that you feel that you have been enhanced by your efforts. So it's not pride.'' 
Then Cuomo drifted back in time, to the story of his father the ditch digger and his bride, immigrants who lost a son, also named Mario, because there were no city hospitals. Back to his own birth, assisted by midwife, behind the family grocery store. Back to Ellis Island and the absurdity of the proposition that he or his son might have come to occupy the highest office in the nation's third-most-populous state. ''I somehow stumbled through and became a governor,'' he told me. ''I've told you that story. It was all luck. Luck and nothing else.''
So seeing his son's inauguration made him feel lucky, rather than proud?
''Oh, yeah,'' Cuomo said. ''How could you not?''
For the past 16 years, ever since the voters turned him out (rejecting, among other things, his steadfast opposition to the death penalty), Mario Cuomo has come to work most days at the Midtown law firm of Willkie, Farr & Gallagher. A judge recently appointed him to arbitrate the dispute between the trustee of Bernard Madoff's fraudulent investment fund and the owners of the New York Mets; the thinking, apparently, is that only a New York legend like Cuomo can compel the two sides to reach a settlement, although there is little indication, at least publicly, that endless litigation can be averted. When I arrived at the law firm on a Friday morning at 10, Cuomo's longtime assistant, Mary Porcelli, apologized immediately, explaining that Cuomo had a meeting at 11. He would have an hour to spend with me, but no more.
Cuomo's corner office looks east onto the Citigroup building. Across the river, obscured from view, is the Jamaica neighborhood in Queens where he grew up. His fedora rested on a bronze bust of Abraham Lincoln's head, near photos of Joe DiMaggio and Mickey Mantle. Cuomo, a onetime minor-league ball player, extended his catcher's mitt of a hand and blinked at me through round glasses, his face a layout of symmetrical creases and folds. Behind the executive desk where he sat hung two mementos -- one a picture of him and Justice Harry Blackmun smiling together and the other a sketch of the governor's mansion in Albany.
If you were a kid in the Northeast during the 1980s, as I was, there is something awesome -- in the literal sense -- about sitting across a desk from Mario Cuomo, even if he now misplaces names and occasionally grasps for the point of an anecdote that has fluttered just out of reach. He was, at that time, the anti-Reagan, a powerful and resonant voice of dissent in the age of ''Top Gun'' and Alex P. Keaton. Cuomo, Ted Kennedy and Jesse Jackson were the three titans of the day who seemed to possess the defiance needed to rescue liberalism from obsolescence.
Now, of course, American liberalism is again in retreat. Bruised by the Democrats' electoral defeat, President Barack Obama, who once embodied progressive hopes more than any Democrat since Cuomo's day, is cutting community-development block grants and corporate taxes. Meanwhile, in state capitals across the country, a new generation of governors is seeking to roll back social programs and the gains of government workers. Chief among these governors, poignantly, is Andrew Cuomo, whose own austerity measures include billions of dollars in cuts from state spending on Medicaid and education, even as he resists new taxes -- and proposes to let lapse a surcharge on the wealthy. Andrew sounds just like his father (he has the same outer-borough accent that makes ''because'' sound like ''be-KAWCE''), but the substance of his message more closely resembles that of his other political tutor, Bill Clinton.
Perhaps sensitive to this contrast, Mario Cuomo began our conversation by discoursing on the senselessness of political labels, a theme on which he has been riffing for 25 years. Then he meandered his way to an assessment of both Clinton and Obama, whom he said he admired for their shared brand of ''benign pragmatism.'' Cuomo said he agreed, for instance, with the deal Obama cut last December to keep the Bush tax cuts in place while extending unemployment benefits. ''That was the so-called triangulation that sometimes annoyed people like me,'' Cuomo said. ''And I think that's where Obama is. Obama's not a liberal. He's not a conservative. He's a very practical guy who's playing it a shot at a time.''
Did that mean, I asked, that Mario Cuomo, who strongly opposed Clintonian compromises like the welfare-reform law of 1996, had come at last to appreciate triangulation?
''No,'' he said quickly, shifting a bit in his swivel chair. Then, more softly, ''I'm still a liberal, I guess.''
For the next half-hour or so, Cuomo ran through a series of stories, many of them from his first campaign for governor, populated by New York characters like Ed Koch and Rupert Murdoch and Abe Rosenthal, the former Times editor. (Even now, at 78, Cuomo could read a patent application and make it seem vastly entertaining.) Having now asked all of two questions, and with my time running out, I suggested that I could hang around until there was another chance to talk, maybe pass the afternoon in some conference room where I wouldn't get in the way of anyone's billable hours. Cuomo surprised me by leaning back for a moment and wincing, as if something I'd said had just stung him.
''Go ahead,'' he said after a moment. ''Let me have some of your questions.''
Cuomo's most repeated quote holds that you ''campaign in poetry'' but ''govern in prose.'' The prose of Cuomo's time in office, like that of most governors, reflected a good deal of ideological flexibility. It was the poetry, really, a body of oration unrivaled in contemporary politics, that made Cuomo a liberal hero. The most enduring of his speeches, and the one that introduced him to most Americans, was the keynote address to the Democratic convention in San Francisco in 1984, in which Cuomo took millions of viewers on a rhetorical tour of what Ronald Reagan called his ''shining city on the hill'' -- its slums, its homeless shelters, its shuttered plants. Fifteen years later, a survey of more than 100 scholars nationwide ranked Cuomo's address the 11th-best American speech of the century. By comparison, Ted Kennedy's ''dream shall never die'' speech came in 76th, while Bill Clinton's eulogy at Oklahoma City landed at No. 92. (Martin Luther King Jr.'s ''I have a dream'' was No. 1.)
''I have never thought of it as a really great speech,'' Cuomo said of his convention address. ''What happened was that the message was perfectly suitable to the listeners. What they wanted to hear was exactly what they heard.'' Cuomo looks back more fondly on those speeches in which he told audiences what they didn't necessarily want to hear, like the one, a few months after that convention, when he defended his support for abortion rights in front of the Catholic clergy at Notre Dame. ''The American people need no course in philosophy or political science or church history,'' Cuomo said then, ''to know that God should not be made into a celestial party chairman.'' The same historians ranked that one 61st.
In most of his memorable orations, Cuomo connected the promise of liberal government to the story of his own uneducated parents, of the father whom he saw ''literally bleed from the bottoms of his feet'' after a long day at work. ''Of course, we should have only the government we need,'' he said in his first inaugural address and many times after, ''but we must have, and we will insist on, all the government we need.'' Contrast this with what Andrew Cuomo said in his inaugural address in January, when he called for a cap on property taxes, vowed to ''rightsize'' the bureaucracy and declared: ''The state government has grown too large. We can't afford it.''
I asked Cuomo whether Andrew was a different kind of Democrat from his father. He paused for a long moment.
''I think . . .,'' he began, then stopped. ''What's a different kind of Democrat? It depends on how you describe a Democrat.'' He paused again, considering. ''It's difficult to . . . I think it's. . . . '' Another pause. ''Is he a different kind of Democrat,'' Cuomo repeated flatly.
He then fell back on a politician's instinct, telling me that the more salient question was what it meant to be a Republican. And so for the next 10 minutes or so, unbidden, he acted out an interrogation of some nameless Tea Party member on the constitutional implications of the new health-care law; he was a wily courtroom lawyer exposing the inconsistencies in the testimony of an imaginary adversary. (''Oh, so it's got to be part of the commerce clause? O.K. Well, is the space program part of the commerce clause? Did you know that we spend $19 billion a year on the space program?'') At long last, his case triumphantly prosecuted, he told me, ''So when you ask, 'What is their politics?' I say, 'Well, I don't know yet.' ''
I reminded him that I hadn't asked about their politics. I had asked about his son's. He nodded.
''He's where I am on the death penalty,'' Cuomo said finally. ''He's where I am on same-sex marriage. He's where I am on poor people. He's where I am on most of the big things.'' He shrugged. ''But it's difficult to define the person, especially when it's a first year.''
Perhaps, I suggested, the argument for economic liberalism that once defined the Democratic Party might simply be a thing of the past.
''I don't know about that,'' Cuomo said. Then he rose and retrieved a book from his shelf, a volume of his speeches published in 1993. He began flipping through the pages silently. ''I'd forgotten this,'' he said, growing more animated now, suddenly enjoying himself. ''This is going to be great. I love this. I'm glad you came.''
He adjusted his glasses and lingered on the dedication for a moment, then repeated it, almost to himself. '' 'To Matilda, who has given me so much more than I deserve.' Truer words were never spoken.''
Then Cuomo began reading to me what he said was his first-ever political speech, an address to what he called an ''extreme liberal'' coalition in 1974, when he was running for lieutenant governor. '' 'I would like to talk to you today about a single pervasively significant question,' '' he read quickly. '' 'What is the constituency we seek to represent as the Democratic Party?' '' He continued, skipping only a passage here and there.
''But now wait, that's not it,'' he said without looking up. ''I've got to give this to you.''
The bulk of the speech, which he proceeded to recite verbatim, concerned the tension between serving poor constituents and sustaining the middle class, and how the party could marry the two imperatives. Finally, Cuomo came upon the passage he was looking for and recited it to me dramatically, emphasizing each word. '' 'This is the real challenge for our party. To find a way to harmonize the competing interests. To serve the poor without crushing the middle class. And while doing this, to make clear to the middle class that it isn't our intention to crush them.' '' He closed the book on his desk.
''I think that is enlightening, actually,'' Cuomo said, with some satisfaction. ''That hasn't changed.''
Except that it has. In the years after Cuomo delivered that address, a restive middle class, beset by industrial collapse and the dissolution of whole communities that went with it, grew ever more skeptical of liberal government, with its focus on poor and minority communities. And so Bill Clinton's innovation in the 1990s was, in effect, to invert Mario Cuomo's formulation. Most Democrats giving that speech in the post-Clinton era, Obama included, would have said that the party's main mission was to serve the middle class without crushing the poor, rather than the other way around. That was, perhaps, the defining difference between Cuomo's liberal moment and this one, and when I argued this point to Cuomo, he allowed that it was true.
What Cuomo didn't say is that this probably also explains the political dissonance between him and his son, who seems to identify with a generation of Democrats who care more about the prose of government -- restoring the faith of a jaded middle class through metrics and efficiencies -- than about the poetry of liberalism. Although he consults with his father privately and speaks warmly of him publicly, Andrew Cuomo doesn't talk much about his immigrant heritage or his passion for public housing, or anything else that might seem to place him squarely in his father's tradition. In the weeks after I visited Mario, I tried repeatedly to reach the current governor to talk about his father. He declined to return the call.
We had been sitting for nearly two hours, and though I kept expecting someone to come rescue the former governor, the door never opened. ''I think I've kept you long enough,'' said Cuomo, who seemed to be decelerating a bit. Before I left, though, I asked him about the derisive moniker that follows him to this day. The top of his eventual obituary will almost certainly make reference to Cuomo as ''Hamlet on the Hudson,'' the man who dithered over whether to run for president and over whether to accept an appointment to the Supreme Court. (He said no to both and found himself reduced, alongside the former Texas governor, Ann Richards, to making a Super Bowl ad for Doritos instead.) That had to irritate him.
''It should,'' he answered. ''It should, because it's so wrong.'' Hamlet couldn't make up his mind, Cuomo said. He had made up his mind, in both cases, and stood by it.
Did he ever sit here, I asked, looking out on the cityscape on a quiet afternoon, and wonder if he might have made more of a difference in the life of the nation?
Cuomo shook his head. He explained that he had simply never managed to persuade himself that there wasn't someone more qualified to sit in the Oval Office than he was.
This sounded, I offered, like insecurity.
''No,'' he replied, ''it's candor.''
As for becoming a Supreme Court justice, Cuomo said it would have meant that he could ''never, never, never'' give another impassioned speech or interview on, say, Israel, or poverty. He then recounted for me a conversation he had with Bill Clinton after the president offered to appoint him to the court in 1993.
''The president said to me, 'Do you think that you're going to win re-election?'
''And I said, 'Don't tell anybody, but probably not.'
''And he said, 'Well, jeez, if you're not going to win, and you're not going to be a governor, what can you do?'
''And I said, 'Look, I can debate and I can argue.'
''And he said, 'Really, what kind of difference do you think you can make?' ''
So Cuomo repeated for Clinton -- who, you can only imagine, must have been fairly exasperated by that point -- one of his favorite proverbs, about an Arab traveler who comes upon a sparrow in the desert, lying on its back with its claws outstretched toward the sky. The Arab asks what the bird is doing, and the bird replies that he has heard the sky is about to fall, and he wants to be ready to hold it up.
''You foolish creature,'' says the Arab, laughing.
To which the bird replies, with resignation, ''One does what one can.''
Perhaps Cuomo did what he could for the cause of liberalism in the years that followed, but there is little in the record to account for it. Instead, voters continued to lose their faith in government, and the left continued to search in vain for another spokesman with Mario Cuomo's grace and gravitas.
''I'm sorry I went on and on here,'' Cuomo said as I rose to leave at 12:30. I assured him he hadn't, and I asked, out of curiosity, what had become of his 11 o'clock meeting. ''We're going to find out,'' Cuomo said, and then he picked up the phone and dialed his assistant.
''Anybody looking for me?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In His Prime: Mario Cuomo in 1985. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS PIEL/CONDE NAST ARCHIVE/CORBIS) (MM27)
 The Legacy: Andrew Cuomo with his father and mother after winning the election, Nov. 2, 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE /GET T Y IMAGES) (MM29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); MIDWIVES (64%); LITIGATION (63%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (63%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (60%)

COMPANY: WILLKIE FARR & GALLAGHER LLP (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



246 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2512 words

HEADLINE: A Few Billion Off the Top?

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
A FEW days ago, as beleaguered Democrats, disunited Republicans and noisy Tea Party scolds -- which is to say, Official Washington -- engaged in a quarrelsome debate over whether to shut down the federal government, Peter G. Peterson, the longtime fiscal hawk, was in his office in New York, polishing a speech for the 268th anniversary of Thomas Jefferson's birth.
Forty-eight stories above Fifth Avenue, Mr. Peterson, sitting among the views of Central Park and photos of himself with presidents and premiers, considered the wrangling in Washington with a distant disappointment: a sort of New York Establishment dismay.
''There are thousands of people focused on the short term,'' he said, ''on whether spending cuts will be 23 or 33 billion dollars. But the transcendent problem, the potentially terminal problem, is the long term. That's what interests me.'' 
At 84, Pete Peterson embodies the long term, especially where the national debt is concerned. He has been talking -- some would say droning on -- about the subject for more than 30 years. He used $1 billion of his Wall Street fortune to create the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, whose sole purpose is to educate Americans about the dangers of the debt. He provided staff members to President Obama's fiscal commission last year. He speaks endlessly about the debt in public, writes countless editorials on the topic and travels regularly to Washington from his East Side home to confer on the matter with high-ranking senators.
''I think of him as the godfather of this whole effort of trying to bring sanity to our nation's finances,'' said Erskine B. Bowles, co-chairman of the presidential commission.
Aside from being a godfather, Mr. Peterson is also a former adviser to Richard M. Nixon, a onetime chief executive of Lehman Brothers, a co-founder of the Blackstone private equity group and an ex-chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations. It would be hard to find a more established establishmentarian and yet, in a strange-bedfellows twist, his passionate, persistent and personal ''last crusade'' against the debt is one he shares -- albeit with differences -- with Paulists (as in Ron and Rand), critics of the Federal Reserve and the man on the corner with the sign saying, ''Lo, the End Is Nigh!''
Both he and they insist that spending cuts, as they are currently conceived, are small to the point of being meaningless. Both he and they suggest that long-untouchable portions of the budget, like entitlements and defense, must be reduced; both he and they describe the multitrillion-dollar debt as an existential threat to future generations.
''The Tea Party crowd, if you want to call it that, is not Pete Peterson's crowd, but his message speaks to the political mob,'' said Leslie H. Gelb, president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations. ''Pete may be using them as leverage to get to the Establishment, which is his natural audience -- to force the Establishment to act.''
Maybe, maybe not. The tonal differences between Mr. Peterson and the Tea Party crowd -- he is measured, they are loud; he is patrician, they are populist -- are distinct enough that he himself admitted last week to an odd, even aloof, ignorance of the group.
''I don't know much about them,'' he said, adding that he recently had his staff compile a dossier on the group. Cautious, methodical, devoted to analysis, he did what he often does when he feels uninformed: his homework.
DOING homework has long been Mr. Peterson's way. Raised in Depression-era Nebraska, he is the self-made son of a Greek diner owner who arrived in America speaking no English. Fiscal prudence was banged into Mr. Peterson's childhood skull. He claims to have bathed with his brother in the lukewarm water that his parents left behind in the tub. A sign on the diner's paper-towel dispenser read, ''Why Use Two When One Wipes Dry?''
After stints at M.I.T. (he was expelled for plagiarizing a term paper) and at Northwestern (he paid his way by waiting on tables at a sorority house), Mr. Peterson worked in advertising, in Chicago, in the Mad Men era, and at 34, he became the president of the electronics manufacturer Bell & Howell (where he laid claim to the invention of the boom box). A connection to John J. McCloy, a Wall Street mandarin, helped secure a position in the Nixon administration, where he became known as ''the economic Kissinger.''
In 1973, Mr. Peterson went to Wall Street, serving as the chief executive at Lehman Brothers, where he earned a reputation as a cautious, if standoffish, leader focused on long-term profits. After a struggle between the firm's investment bankers -- whom he epitomized -- and its aggressive bond-trading desk, he was forced out. Within a year, he founded Blackstone, which he turned into a multibillion-dollar firm with a partner, Stephen A. Schwarzman.
Mr. Peterson's epiphany about the debt came, aptly enough, while he was looking for a house in the Hamptons. It was 1981, and he recounts making a deal with the seller who ran the Women's Economic Round Table: she would accept his offer on the house if he would give an address about Ronald Reagan's budget to her group. He started researching, and ''what I found astonished me,'' he wrote in his autobiography, ''The Education of an American Dreamer'': unbridled government spending, unbridled federal tax cuts and no attention to ''the elephants in the room'' -- Social Security and Medicare.
''He viewed it as a bad approach that would damage the country in the long term,'' Mr. Schwarzman said in an interview. ''So he started writing articles.''
The first, ''Social Security: The Coming Crash,'' appeared, in 1982, in The New York Review of Books, and was so controversial for its analysis and apocalyptic tone that the journal set aside an entire issue for rebuttals.
''He strongly anticipated the debate that's going on right now,'' said Robert Silvers, who edited the piece. ''Every theme that's in play at the moment was in that article, particularly health care costs and entitlements.''
Ever since, in articles and in speeches like the one he gave last month over red wine and beef tournedos at the Metropolitan Club, Mr. Peterson has been pushing his plan to fix Social Security: gradually increase the retirement age; put in place an ''affluence test'' to reduce benefits for the wealthy; raise the cap on the payroll tax; and proclaim Social Security's trust fund -- which, he says, is filled with government IOUs, not cash -- as having already been spent. The odd thing about the politics of the debt is that many of those in power agree with him and yet refuse -- or are painfully slow -- to act.
''Everyone I know agrees with what he's been saying all these years, but he's made few converts in action,'' Mr. Gelb said. ''The fascinating part is that you don't have the Establishment making an issue of the debt. You have the extremes, people like the Tea Party, making the issue. I don't think Pete has problems with the non-Establishment going out there and screaming. He may have problems with their proposals, but they are making it impossible to look away from debt.''
Odder still is that but for his fiscal conservatism, Mr. Peterson could be taken for a member of the wealthy, left-leaning New York elite: George Soros, say, if he had liked Ike. In his Nixon years, Mr. Peterson was the powerful iconoclast who drank with the Georgetown cocktail party set. His current friends include the film producer Joel Schumacher and the literary agent Morton L. Janklow. (Don Hewitt, of ''60 Minutes,'' was a pal before he died.) He favors a carbon tax and cutting defense spending, and he has gone on record calling George W. Bush's plan to privatize Social Security ''an absurdity.''
''My husband is a born moderate and actually a liberal on social issues,'' said Mr. Peterson's wife, Joan Ganz Cooney, a television producer who helped create ''Sesame Street.'' ''He wouldn't disagree with complaints about overspending, but if the Tea Partiers come up, he kind of shakes his head. He watches a lot of Fox News'' -- Bill O'Reilly is a favorite -- ''but he can't stand it when they have Sarah Palin on.''
Standing at a geographic and spiritual remove from the quick-fix political thinkers in Washington, sharing causes (if not solutions) with a querulous right-wing fringe, Mr. Peterson has also become the leading bete noire for a certain strain of liberalism, evidenced by the fact that his wizened portrait loomed in 2009 on the cover of the Nation magazine above the headline ''The Man Who Wants to Loot Social Security.'' He is suspected on the left of a covert plan to use inflated fears about the debt to cut the safety net and to balance the country's books -- left imbalanced, the argument goes, by tax cuts, wars and Wall Street bailouts -- on the backs of the poor and old.
''He's not focused on the debt so much as on cutting Social Security and Medicare,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research. ''Even in the late '90s, when we had a surplus, he was saying the same thing and the debt wasn't in any obvious way a problem then.''
Progressives like Mr. Baker or Richard Eskow of the Campaign for America's Future often paint Mr. Peterson as a disingenuous tycoon who made his fortune from the low carried-interest tax rate (it allows hedge-fund operators to shield earnings from the government). They argue that Social Security's trust fund -- while supplied with Treasury bonds, not dollar bills -- will nonetheless stay solvent for decades, and accuse Mr. Peterson of shrewdly couching entitlement reform as a way to protect future generations when, in fact, it is today's elderly who will suffer.
Mr. Peterson denies such motives, and if his critics see him as a cynical financier, his friends see him as a sage corporate citizen who, at worst, made the mistake of getting ahead of the herd.
''He saw the long-term trends in health care and retirement spending before nearly all policy makers,'' Bill Clinton wrote in e-mail. ''Unlike some Democrats, he knows we need to cut spending. Unlike today's Republicans, he's not allergic to revenue increases.''
Richard Plepler, a friend and the co-president of HBO, quoted Walter Lippmann's adage that, in politics, it is necessary not to be right on an issue before it's popular.
''Pete was right about the debt before it was popular,'' Mr. Plepler said. ''Now, he's right when it is popular.''
If some consider him Cassandra and others Chicken Little, Mr. Peterson considers himself, in self-deprecating (and self-interested) terms, as a data-driven businessman who ''simply did the math.''
''Damned if I know why I do it,'' he exclaimed about his 30-year obsession with the debt.
''It's a reality,'' he said.
THE reality is Pete Peterson is getting old. He wears a hearing aid and, in the way of men accustomed to being listened to, frequently repeats his jokes and stories. Two weeks ago, he had his hair cut by his regular barber, Tony Neri, near Grand Central Terminal. Barber and client teased each other with a bantering amiability, but Mr. Peterson's voice was weak; he was recovering from pneumonia. He claims to have a ''naughty'' manner with his friends. The word suggests his old-fashioned sensibility. Leaving Mr. Neri's second-story shop, he descended the stairs, pocket square in place, with a sort of elegant caution.
True to his role as a godfather, Mr. Peterson has both guided the conversation about the debt and watched it mature toward his position. His foundation issued a half-congratulatory statement last week when Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican, unveiled his party's 2012 budget, claiming that it would cut $5.8 trillion over the next decade. The usual Peterson buzzwords were included: fiscal unsustainability and long-term debt. ''We can no longer afford inaction,'' it said.
Even though he could settle for a coddled retirement, he is not ''the go-fishing type,'' said Michael Peterson, his youngest son, who is 41 and runs the foundation's daily operations. The elder Mr. Peterson started the foundation in 2008 with more than half of his $1.8 billion payout from Blackstone. ''It was his logical next chapter,'' Michael Peterson said.
The Peterson Foundation specializes in savvy, if somewhat corny, media campaigns that seek to popularize the issue of the debt: a documentary called ''I.O.U.S.A.''; Budgetball, an ''outdoor game of fiscal strategy'' for students; and the faux-presidential candidacy of Hugh Jidette (say it again), complete with a fake biography and a real Facebook page. It has also started partnerships with Columbia University's Teachers College (to produce curriculum on the debt) and with MTV (to alert college students to fiscal irresponsibility).
Its most effective use of its founder's fortune may be the millions of dollars in grants it has given over the years to think tanks like the Heritage Foundation and the Center for American Progress, run by John Podesta, Mr. Clinton's former chief of staff. ''Everyone I know in the 'budget community' is trying to get Peterson money,'' said Stan Collender, a longtime budget expert at the consulting firm Qorvis Communications.
Mr. Peterson conceives of the foundation as a Rockefeller-like exercise in philanthropy and as a means to examine underexamined areas of the debt. To that end, he has commissioned an analysis of defense spending, a comparative study on private hospital expenditures and a report on the crisis in state budgets.
He will also host, in May, a meeting devoted to ''debt solutions,'' in which six of his grant recipients will offer proposals for reducing the debt and the so-called Gang of Six -- three Republican and three Democratic senators committed to fiscal change -- will play a role. It is a perfect example of cajoling the Establishment toward long-term goals.
The question, of course, is does the long term exist for a man of 84?
Mr. Peterson brushed the question off, but then said: ''I've never been more encouraged than right now. Erskine has said the period of denial is over. I think that's right. I think it's time.''
Ms. Cooney was more amenable to discussions of an obviously sensitive nature.
''It's inexplicable in a way that he's stayed so long with something so tough -- this impossible rock he's been pushing uphill,'' she said. ''If it happens after he's gone and he knows he's made a contribution, I think that would be fine for him.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about Peter G. Peterson, who has a foundation to educate Americans about the national debt, referred imprecisely, in some copies, to a relationship between Mr. Peterson and The Washington Post. The newspaper has published articles by The Fiscal Times, a publication that Mr. Peterson finances, but the foundation does not have a ''partnership'' with The Post. The article also misstated a former role of Mr. Peterson with the Council on Foreign Relations. He is an ex-chairman, not an ex-president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TIME TO TRIM: Peter G. Peterson, paying a visit to his barber, Tony Neri, near Grand Central Terminal. He has long called for fiscal reforms to prevent what he sees as a painful reckoning. (MB1)
WALL STREET TITAN: Peter Peterson at his office on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. He made a fortune as a founder of the private equity firm Blackstone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SHAPING A DEBATE: Mr. Peterson and Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, at a meeting held by the Peterson Foundation in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 POLITICAL PLAYER: President Richard M. Nixon congratulating Mr. Peterson -- with Sally Hornbogen Peterson, his wife at the time -- after he was sworn in as secretary of commerce in 1972. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) (MB5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); ERSKINE BOWLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



247 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: Next on Agenda For Washington: Fight Over Debt

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The down-to-the-wire partisan struggle over cuts to this year's federal budget has intensified concern in Washington, on Wall Street and among economists about the more consequential clash coming over increasing the government's borrowing limit.
Congressional Republicans are vowing that before they will agree to raise the current $14.25 trillion federal debt ceiling -- a step that will become necessary in as little as five weeks -- President Obama and Senate Democrats will have to agree to far deeper spending cuts for next year and beyond than those contained in the six-month budget deal agreed to late Friday night that cut $38 billion and averted a government shutdown.
Republicans have also signaled that they will again demand fundamental changes in policy on health care, the environment, abortion rights and more, as the price of their support for raising the debt ceiling.
In a letter last week, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner told Congressional leaders the government would hit the limit no later than May 16. He outlined ''extraordinary measures'' -- essentially moving money among federal accounts -- that could buy time until July 8. 
Once the limit is reached, the Treasury Department would not be able to borrow as it does routinely to finance federal operations and roll over existing debt; ultimately it would be unable to pay off maturing debt, putting the United States government -- the global standard-setter for creditworthiness -- into default.
The repercussions in that event would be as much economic as political, rippling from the bond market into the lives of ordinary citizens through higher interest rates and financial uncertainty of the sort that the economy is only now overcoming, more than three years after the onset of the last recession.
Given the short time frame for action and the prospect of an intractable political clash, leaders in both government and business are already moving to avert a crisis that most likely would be ''a recovery-ending event,'' as Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified recently in the Senate. He described a sequence of events that ''would cascade through the financial markets,'' provoking another credit crisis like that in 2008 and causing interest rates to jump.
Mr. Geithner has been meeting privately with senior lawmakers of both parties to underscore the economic stakes. At the White House, Mr. Obama's chief economic adviser, Gene Sperling, peeled away from the spending fight in recent weeks to turn nearly full time to developing the administration's strategy for the debt-limit debate. Central to that, administration officials say, is whether Mr. Obama initiates bipartisan talks on a long-term debt-reduction plan that tackles taxes, military spending and fast-growing entitlement programs like Medicare and Medicaid.
Executives of the nation's largest financial institutions in recent days met with Mr. Geithner, House Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, and other lawmakers, arguing for the importance of raising the debt ceiling. Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, told them that his bank had devised contingency plans to protect its global business in the event of a default.
''If anyone wants to push that button, which I think would be catastrophic and unpredictable, I think they're crazy,'' Mr. Dimon said recently at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
The United States is one of the few nations that limits its debt by law, and votes in Congress to raise the ceiling, something that happens every few years, are perhaps the least popular that lawmakers face.
Financial and government leaders alike have grown accustomed to some political brinkmanship over raising the cap, confident that Congress ultimately would do so, usually with the party holding the White House supplying most votes. (So it was that Mr. Obama, as a Democratic senator in 2006, voted against a Bush administration request to raise the debt limit; it passed with mostly Republican votes.)
What makes this year different, people in both parties say, is the large number of Congressional Republicans, including the many newcomers who gave the party a House majority, who are strenuously opposed to government spending, and egged on by the activist Tea Party movement to use the leverage of the debt-limit vote to make their stand.
''We want to see real structural, cultural-type changes tied to this debt ceiling. We're not interested in a one-off kind of savings, or anything small,'' said Representative Mick Mulvaney, a first-term Republican from South Carolina. ''There has got to be game-changing kinds of changes to get us to vote for it.''
He dismissed warnings about default as ''just posturing,'' and said Democrats should bear the responsibility for passing any measure to increase the borrowing limit.
''It's their debt,'' he said. ''Make them do it. That's my attitude.''
In fact, the debt was created by both parties and past presidents as well as Mr. Obama.
Of the nearly $14.2 trillion in debt, roughly $5 trillion is money the government has borrowed from other accounts, mostly from Social Security revenues, according to federal figures. Several major policies from the past decade when Republicans controlled the White House and Congress -- tax cuts, a Medicare prescription-drug benefit and wars in Iraq and Afghanistan -- account for more than $3.2 trillion.
The recession cost more than $800 billion in lost revenues from businesses and individuals and in automatic spending for safety-net programs like unemployment compensation. Mr. Obama's stimulus spending and tax cuts added about $600 billion through the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30.
Though the recent standoff that consumed Washington over spending for the 2011 fiscal year ended without a government shutdown, the messy process and 11th-hour settlement have stoked trepidation about the debt-limit fight to come. If Republicans and Democrats found it so hard to compromise over a few billion dollars, the thinking goes, how can they ever come together on a multi-year, multitrillion-dollar plan to cut the debt within weeks or months?
''If I were still Treasury secretary, it would worry the hell out of me,'' said James A. Baker III, who served in that office for President Ronald Reagan, during a time when the total federal debt nearly tripled over his two terms. ''But it doesn't worry me as a good Republican, and one who wants to finally see some fiscal responsibility in this country.''
Mr. Baker, long known as a deal-maker, said Republicans were right to say, ''O.K., we'll increase the debt limit, Democrats, if you will enact enforceable spending restraint.''
Neither the White House nor Congressional leaders are certain how they will get enough votes to raise the limit. The White House and Democrats in Congress will urge passage of a ''clean'' debt limit increase, without amendments, though they acknowledge that cannot pass in the Republican-controlled House.
While the House is the focus of most concern, passage in the Democratic-controlled Senate will be a challenge as well. Republican conservatives there, reinforced by Tea Party adherents elected last November, vow to filibuster any increase in the debt limit, which would require a 60-vote supermajority to overcome.
The Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has privately urged the conservatives not to filibuster, without success, say three people familiar with the talks. He argued that if Republicans did not filibuster and just 50 votes were needed for passage, the Republicans could try to force all the votes to come from the 51 Democrats -- including 17 who are up for re-election. But if 60 votes are required because of a filibuster, ultimately some Republicans would have to vote for the increase lest the party be blamed for a debt crisis.
In the House, Mr. Boehner said after the November elections that his new members would have to deal with the debt limit ''as adults.'' But with many Tea Party-backed Republicans feeling that they already compromised more than they wanted on the current year's budget, it is not clear how receptive the freshman Republicans will be to a deal this time.
The just-concluded budget fight has spawned talk that the White House and Congress will perhaps resort to a series of short-term extensions of the debt limit while they bargain over a debt-reduction plan or some other mandatory budget restraints. The question is, how might global financial markets react?
''We've never seen that before,'' said Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton and a longtime Wall Street executive. ''But I know this: It's not a risk I'd take.''
After this week, Congress recesses until early May, returning just two weeks before Treasury hits the debt ceiling. Even stretching the deadline for action to July, there would be little time to reach a debt-reduction accord.
So attention is turning to a bipartisan ''Gang of Six'' in the Senate. The senators, three from each party, have met for 10 months to negotiate a comprehensive plan on taxes, entitlement programs and military spending. They have considered recommendations made by Mr. Obama's bipartisan fiscal commission in December.
''It would be nice to have it in a package form by the debt-limit'' debate, said Senator Saxby Chambliss, a Republican of Georgia. But even if the six agree, he added, ''hitting everyone else with something this major, it's going to take some time to be digested. Plus you've got to go through the various committees.''
House Republicans in effect outlined their starting position last week, when, amid the fight over 2011 spending, they unveiled their budget for the 2012 fiscal year and beyond. It would cut $6 trillion over 10 years, mostly from projected spending for Medicare and Medicaid.
But those savings would be offset by about $4 trillion in tax cuts. The result, according to the Congressional Budget Office, would be continued annual deficits until 2040 -- necessitating more votes to raise the debt limit, even under House Republicans' plan, for decades to come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has been meeting privately with lawmakers to stress the economic stakes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) (A26) CHARTS: Raising the Debt Ceiling: The government is about to hit the legal borrowing limit of $14.2 trillion. For a rough idea of the source of all that debt, a breakdown through the 2010 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, is shown at right. (Source: The White House Office of Management and Budget) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); RECESSION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BONDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); MEDICAID (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BOND MARKETS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ABORTION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (77%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



248 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: A Rich Year, and More to Come

BYLINE: By PRADNYA JOSHI

 BODY:
AFTER falling for two years in the wake of the financial crisis and the recession, executive pay is soaring again. The median salary for C.E.O.'s at about 200 big American companies rose 12 percent last year, while the average was up 20 percent, according to data compiled by Equilar. By comparison, average pay for American workers in the private sector rose 2.1 percent in 2010, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
Many large corporations have not yet publicly disclosed compensation, so paydays for other executives could surpass those of the 30 C.E.O.'s listed below. For instance, Leslie Moonves of the CBS Corporation made $43 million in 2009, which would have easily earned him one of the top spots that year. But the company had not disclosed his pay in time for publication.
For many C.E.O.'s, grants of stock and stock options in 2010 led to multimillion-dollar payouts. A booming stock market has also meant that many of these executives are sitting on billions of dollars' worth of paper gains on their stock and stock options. For instance, as of the end of 2010, Rupert Murdoch, the head of the News Corporation, had $4.5 billion in stock-related holdings in his company. Warren E. Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway had the most share value of any of the 200 C.E.O.'s. He had $46 billion in stock, most of which he has said he will give to charity.
PRADNYA JOSHI

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHART: Chief Executives' Compensation: The 30 Highest Paid (Source: Equilar Inc.) (CHART BY GUILBERT GATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); STOCK OPTIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (82%); CBS CORP (70%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); CBS (NYSE) (70%); BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: LESLIE MOONVES (58%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



249 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: What Happened to the Investigation?

 BODY:
Last summer the House Ethics Committee accused Representative Maxine Waters of bringing discredit on Congress by helping to secure a government bailout for a troubled bank where her husband held stock and had been a director. Ms. Waters, a California Democrat, angrily denied the charge and demanded a public hearing. 
Nothing has happened since -- except key committee investigators were placed on administrative leave. The public needs to know the full story. Has Ms. Waters violated ethics rules or worse? Did the investigators make a major error? Or did someone want them muzzled?
The public record does not look good for Ms. Waters. A recent report by The Washington Post found that federal bank examiners had complained to superiors of political interference and called the bailout of Boston-based OneUnited Bank ''a travesty of justice.''
Examiners found that the bank's chairman had rendered it insolvent through bad investments and lavish personal spending. Representative Waters arranged a Treasury Department meeting attended largely by officials from OneUnited, according to investigators. Soon after, the bank won a $12 million bailout.
The Ethics Committee charged that Ms. Waters used her office improperly -- that while she had been cautioned not to get involved by Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the Financial Services Committee, she did not stop her chief of staff from continuing to seek assistance.
Ms. Waters insists that she sought the meeting with Treasury officials to help not just OneUnited, but all minority-owned banks sideswiped by the financial crisis. The reputation of the bipartisan Ethics Committee can only sink lower if the case continues to drift.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (71%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: MAXINE WATERS (92%); BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



250 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: The Vision Thing

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When President Obama emerged from spending talks last Thursday night, he went before cameras to insist that an agreement was needed to avoid a government shutdown that he warned would damage the country. What he did not do was make a public case for what should be in the agreement itself.
During a week of budget brinkmanship, the president who signed the largest stimulus spending program in American history largely left it to his Senate allies to respond to the sharp clarity of the Republican austerity message rather than outline a clear vision of what the role of government should be in the era of the Tea Party and rocketing national debt.
His reserved approach came at a time when he is being pressed as never before to define what American liberalism means for the 21st century. In the same week he kicked off his re-election campaign, he suggested that the incumbent of 2012 will not be the same as the candidate of 2008, as he pivoted on counterterrorism policy, embraced another free trade pact and managed his own military intervention in the Middle East. And yet he seemed reluctant to be drawn out too much as he confronted challenges that were never part of his original agenda. 
''How does he define himself against this wave of conservative rhetoric and ideology?'' asked Robert Dallek, the presidential historian. ''It's hard for him to say I'm an old-fashioned New Deal, Great Society liberal. He can't say that and expect to win reelection. So you fudge. It's like what they said about Roosevelt being a chameleon on plaid, changing coloration and shifting forms. But it's much more difficult now because of the 24/7 news cycle.''
In the days leading up to a last-minute deal Friday night averting a government shutdown, the president's immediate tactical goal seemed to be holding himself out as the one reasonable man in an unreasonable town. While the rest of Washington squabbled, he presented himself as the grown-up above a messy fray that would alienate voters scratching their heads over how the government almost could not get its act together to pay the bills and keep the lights on.
The effect, though, was to obscure his own philosophy and to raise the question of what he wants a second term for. ''He needs to be very careful to avoid leaving voters with the impression that his sphinx-like aloofness is all that liberalism has to offer,'' said Yuval Levin, a scholar at the Ethics and Public Policy Center in Washington and a former domestic policy aide to President George W. Bush.
The challenge may in some ways resemble that facing President Bill Clinton during the last government shutdown in 1995-96, but one important difference is that Mr. Clinton had long identified himself as a centrist while there is less consensus in pinning down Mr. Obama ideologically. He has enacted some of the most expansive social and spending programs of any president since Lyndon B. Johnson, touching off the Tea Party rebellion against big government, even as his base on the left complains about his buildup in Afghanistan and his deal with Republicans to extend tax cuts for the wealthy.
Mr. Obama has always cast himself as a pragmatist and he seems to be feeling his way in the post-midterm election environment. In some areas, he has retreated. The decision announced last week to try the accused Sept. 11 plotters in a military commission at the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, represented a 180-degree reversal under pressure from congressional Republicans and some Democrats. His embrace of a free-trade pact with Colombia continued a new emphasis on trade for a Democrat who once vowed to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, or Nafta.
The war in Libya represents one of the most complicated issues for Mr. Obama as he sets out his own form of modern liberalism. The hero of the anti-war movement in 2008 effectively is adopting Mr. Clinton's humanitarian interventions in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s as a model, while trying to distinguish his actions from Mr. Bush's wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.
''He's frustrating,'' said Tim Carpenter, national director of Progressive Democrats of America. ''He's somebody who came out of our movement. He's certainly well read about progressive ideas. But he talks a good game. He compromises way too early. He surrenders in the third quarter of many of these fights.''
Republicans, of course, face their own crosscurrents as party leaders try to navigate the Tea Party wave. Their definition of conservatism, though, has coalesced around the straightforward message of cut spending, cut government, even if they splinter sometimes over the degree. Mr. Obama seems to present liberalism at least in part as opposition to what the other guys are, hoping voters see them as too extreme.
Conservatives argue that Mr. Obama risks getting left behind in the war of ideas if he cedes the reform mantle to Representative Paul Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who last week produced a far-reaching plan to slash federal spending and taxes over the next decade. Although liberals and some moderates have called Mr. Ryan's plan too radical, he has also won praise for boldly taking on big problems.
''The White House seems sure that this path is suicidal for Republicans,'' said Mr. Levin, ''but they are mistaken -- and they will need to wake up very soon to the need to offer the country their own liberal alternative to our failing liberal welfare state.''
Obama advisers say he has made his vision clear in the State of the Union address and subsequent moments over the last few months, a vision that while no longer advocating the kind of stimulus he put in place in 2009 still favors ''investments'' in select areas like education, energy and scientific research to make the United States competitive with emerging powers like China and India. He repeated those points late Friday night after the spending deal came together.
That generates less ideological fervor than, say, a war on poverty or a drive for universal health care. ''What he's trying to do is create a modern economic vision for the role of government and contrast it with a kind of meat-cleaver characterization of the G.O.P. approach,'' said Paul Bledsoe, a senior adviser at the Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington advocacy group. ''I don't know that he's been able to do that yet because I'm not sure he's been able to capture the narrative of the U.S. role in the world.''
William Galston, a Brookings Institution scholar who worked in Mr. Clinton's White House, said Mr. Obama's approach ''is not quite'' like the so-called ''triangulation'' approach of the 1990s when the embattled Democratic president tried to set himself apart from both Democrats and Republicans.
Instead of Mr. Clinton, Mr. Obama seems to be channeling his inner Ronald Reagan, Mr. Galston said, by presenting a ''winning the future'' approach rather than dwelling on the problems of the moment. The president, he added, wants to recapture some of the magic of 2008 by convincing voters he is still the inspiring figure they became infatuated with.
''He doesn't want to be the guy wringing his hands,'' Mr. Galston said. ''He wants to be the forward-looking optimist. That's his vision of an attractive liberalism for the 21st century. It can't be a preservationist liberalism; it has to be a reconstructionist liberalism.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM LEFT TO RIGHT: LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES, (SARKOZY)
DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
VASSIL DONEV/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS,
AHN YOUNG-JOON/ASSOCIATED PRESS
PETER PARKS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
ALEX WONG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
PAUL HOSEFROS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DIRK WAEM/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
ASSOCIATED PRESS
DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK1
 WK5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HISTORY (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%); ETHICS (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



251 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Machine Age Poet, Born in Revolution, Stifled Under Stalin

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
IN many ways the Soviet filmmaker Dziga Vertov (1896-1954) was an artist of his time. A kindred spirit of the Constructivist artists who thrived in the wake of the 1917 October Revolution only to be stifled by the Stalinist policies of the 1930s, Vertov was a futurist at heart, a poet of the machine age. For a filmmaker in the reborn Russia the thrill of the new was palpable. Vertov, who saw theory and practice as inseparable, sought to uncover what made the young medium of moving images distinct from the other arts. Every film and every manifesto was an opportunity to examine the latent possibilities and harness the untapped power of cinema.
But in some crucial respects Vertov was also at odds with his environment: a propagandist who sometimes drifted off message, a stubborn individualist within a vast bureaucratic system, a tireless innovator of film form at a time when ''formalism'' was an all-purpose term of censure. 
The subject of a career-spanning retrospective that begins Friday at the Museum of Modern Art and continues through June 4, Vertov is at once a central and an elusive figure in film history. His 1929 masterpiece, ''Man With a Movie Camera,'' a dizzying city symphony that evokes the cycles of urban existence and human life, is a bravura feat of editing and camera trickery that routinely turns up on all-time-best lists and film-school syllabuses. But the density and intricacy of his work call for close attention, and many of his films have long gone unseen.
''Vertov is a filmmaker who is more often spoken about than truly known,'' said Joshua Siegel, the Museum of Modern Art curator who organized the series with the Vertov scholar Yuri Tsivian, a professor at the University of Chicago. Mr. Siegel added, ''The essential paradox of his films is that even as he sought a kind of unification of workers, peasants, intellectuals and artists in a socialist enterprise, he demanded a level of aesthetic sophistication, and it takes repeated viewings to appreciate the pulse and the energy of the work.''
The MoMA series covers all the phases of Vertov's working life, beginning with newsreels from 1918 during the civil war between the Red and White armies. His experiments of the 1920s culminated in a period of relative creative freedom at the Ukrainian film studios in Kiev, for which he made three of his richest films: ''The Eleventh Year'' (1928), a celebration of the October anniversary; ''Man With a Movie Camera''; and his first sound film, ''Enthusiasm: Symphony of the Donbass'' (1930). The Stalinist constraints of the 1930s resulted in more hagiographic films, like ''Three Songs About Lenin'' and ''Lullaby.'' Vertov eventually came full circle, returning to newsreel assignments.
It can be startling to realize just how many roads lead back to Vertov, who straddled the expressive peak of silent cinema and the inchoate excitement of the early sound era. His genius for rhythmic montage and his interest in perceptual processes mark him as a founding father of experimental film. His fantasy of the camera as an all-seeing panoptic tool anticipates our age of total surveillance. His self-reflexive bent -- ''Man With a Movie Camera'' is ultimately a film about its own making -- foreshadows the postmodern tendencies of what we now call meta-cinema. The Austrian filmmaker Peter Kubelka noted that the bold use of found sound in ''Enthusiasm'' predicts the audio collages of John Cage.
In the most basic sense Vertov's understanding of cinema both as a means of recording reality and as an instrument for deepening vision, transcending time and space and even transforming consciousness, puts him at the heart of all nonfiction filmmaking. With no pretense to objectivity, Vertov strove to capture life in all its sensory particulars, a compulsion that remains central in debates about documentary form and technique. ''Cinema verite'' is a translation of ''Kino-Pravda'' (''Film Truth''), the newsreel that Vertov produced in the early '20s (named for the party newspaper). But the more relevant concept in Vertov's case is the ''Kino-Eye,'' his philosophy of cinematic representation, which asserts the camera eye's superiority to the human eye. ''We cannot improve the making of our eyes,'' he wrote, ''but we can endlessly perfect the camera.''
A revolutionary artist to the core, Vertov had a flair for the blow-it-up-and-start-again manifesto. With his closest collaborators -- his wife and editor, Elizaveta Svilova, and his brother and cinematographer, Mikhail Kaufman -- Vertov formed the Council of Three, which proclaimed a ''death sentence'' on the cinema that came before, faulting it for mixing in ''foreign matter'' from theater and literature. Through the '20s Vertov's intertitles grew more inventive in design and in effect. (He worked with the graphic artist Aleksandr Rodchenko and developed an incantatory cadence that sometimes suggests his favorite poet, Walt Whitman.) But with ''Man With a Movie Camera'' he fulfilled his ambition to make a silent film without titles, told in ''a truly international absolute language.''
In the 1922 manifesto ''We'' Vertov extolled ''the perfect electric man,'' and the dream of a man-machine hybrid is encoded in his pseudonym. He was born Denis Kaufman; Vertov translates as ''spinning top,'' and Dziga is an onomatopoeic coinage, meant to evoke the sound of a turning camera crank. Labor and process are the subjects and the materials of his cinema, which returns time and again to images of furnaces and smokestacks and to the rhythms of cogs and levers. The films themselves seem to have been set in motion by the wheels of industry.
These works were generally commemorative, marking the successes of Lenin's New Economic Policy or Stalin's Five Year Plan. But Vertov, interested chiefly in aesthetic experiments, did not always execute his commissions satisfactorily. (''Stride, Soviet!,'' a 1926 campaign film for the Moscow administration, includes no images of city officials.) In the ideological hothouse of the '20s Vertov found himself perpetually engaged in rhetorical warfare. He took on Soviet cinema's senior figure Sergei Eisenstein, likening Eisenstein's 1925 film ''Strike'' to ''theater for fools''; Eisenstein in turn dismissed Vertov's ''formalist jackstraws and unmotivated camera mischief.''
While Vertov's admirers abroad included Charlie Chaplin and H. G. Wells, John Grierson, the British documentary pioneer, called ''Man With a Movie Camera'' ''not a film at all'' but ''a snapshot album.'' His work increasingly forgotten, Vertov was eclipsed by Eisenstein, and it was only in the 1960s, another era of radical art and radical politics, that a renaissance took root. Jean-Luc Godard, after the protests of May 1968, formed the Dziga Vertov Group with the filmmaker Jean-Pierre Gorin, resolving not simply to make political films but ''to make films politically.'' The students who took over the film school in Berlin that year renamed it the Dziga Vertov Academy.
Vienna has since emerged as the capital of Vertov studies, thanks to the efforts of the Austrian Film Museum, which supplied many of the prints for the MoMA show from its extensive Vertov collection.
The MoMA series seeks both to situate Vertov in his time -- showing films by his contemporaries -- and to demonstrate his enduring relevance, with introductions by artists and filmmakers including William Kentridge and Guy Maddin.
Vertov described his films as bombs. The scholar Annette Michelson, who edited a collection of Vertov writings, calls them ''time bombs,'' which may be more accurate, given how they spring themselves on viewers of the future. Many have said that Vertov was ahead of his time. Those of us coming to his films today -- dazzled and perhaps overwhelmed, discovering new facets with each encounter -- may find that he is ahead of ours as well.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, posters for films of the Soviet director Dziga Vertov (1896-1954): Aleksander Rodchenko's design for ''A Sixth Part of the World'' (1925)
Sachs Kupfer's image for ''Man With a Movie Camera'' (1930)
''Kino-Eye'' (''Life Off-Guard,'' from 1924)
 ''The Eleventh Year'' (1928). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AUSTRIAN FILM MUSEUM, VIENNA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM HISTORY (78%); FILM SCHOOLS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); ART COLLECTING (73%); CIVIL WAR (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (67%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); AUSTRIA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



252 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Unpaid Interns: Rewarded or Exploited?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Ross Perlin unfairly views colleges as complicit in labor law abuses (''Unpaid Interns, Complicit Colleges,'' Op-Ed, April 3). Most interns do benefit -- not monetarily, but by gaining experience. This bridges education and the workplace and helps students get jobs.
Unfortunately, most interns have to pay for college credits, do unpaid work and forsake paying jobs that won't further a career. But many are later hired in their chosen profession. For example, the advertising company Young & Rubicam has hired more than 12 City College of New York interns. 
Well-run internships benefit everyone. The college supervisor identifies qualified students and suitable environments, doing quality control for sponsors -- and for interns. If there are abuses, the supervisor intervenes and advocates on students' behalf.
If all internships had to be paid, opportunities would decline, hurting the professional path for many, especially minorities.
LYNN APPELBAUM Closter, N.J., April 3, 2011
The writer is a professor of media and communications arts at City College.
To the Editor:
Beyond the potential exploitation of interns' labor and the devaluing of academic achievement, reliance on unpaid internships can actually harm the businesses that are the recipients of the interns' largess.
In my own field of documentary television production, the endless supply of willing unpaid interns, with or without college credit, has altered our creative work force, limiting it to those who have had the financial ability to work without pay at the start of their careers.
We will never know what talented filmmakers we've lost because they couldn't afford to make that economic sacrifice.
DAVID AXELROD Los Angeles, April 3, 2011
To the Editor:
Internships, whether paid or not, can be quite valuable to a college student. Having worked at a college in Manhattan, and having benefited from a very low-paying internship, I have seen firsthand how internships can open doors for college students to industries that otherwise might be tough to break into without connections.
Given that there are people with years of work experience who are currently unemployed and taking volunteer positions in the hopes of securing a paid job, college students can hardly expect their internship to be more than the apprenticeship and foot-in-the-door opportunity that it is.
The competitive nature of today's job market is what enables companies to make use of unpaid internships. Rather than being ''blind to the realities of work in contemporary America,'' universities are aware of the growing shortcomings of having only a college degree, and therefore encourage the job experience and networks that will bolster students after graduation.
MARIA CAMPO New York, April 6, 2011
To the Editor:
Ross Perlin cites the communications profession as one of many industries that routinely hire unpaid interns. His assessment that colleges and firms are perpetuating a degradation of the value of professional experience for college students is admirable in its effort to raise exposure for this important issue. Recently, the Public Relations Society of America issued new guidance to public relations professionals concerning the ethical use of interns. We made clear our belief that it is unethical not to provide some type of compensation to interns, whether monetary or college credit.
It seems a stretch, however, for Mr. Perlin to argue that all forms of for-credit unpaid internships should be terminated. Instead, we should focus on the quality of professional experience and acumen these arrangements provide and the direct role that plays in an intern's ability to obtain fulfilling postgraduate work.
We have a responsibility to prepare the next generation of professionals for more prosperous career prospects than ours.
FRANCIS C. McDONALD New York, April 6, 2011
The writer is on the Board of Ethics and Professional Standards of the Public Relations Society of America.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HIERONYMUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (75%); WRITERS (73%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



253 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Survey Finds Small Increase in Professors' Pay

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Average faculty salaries rose 1.4 percent from 2009-10 to 2010-11, even though average pay decreased at 30 percent of colleges and universities, according to the annual pay report being released Monday by the American Association of University Professors.
This year's results are just slightly higher than last year's increase of 1.2 percent, which was the smallest rise reported in the survey's 50 years. 
On average, full professors at doctoral universities earned $127,296 for the current academic year, and assistant professors $72,893.
But the report found a widening pay gap between public universities, where full professors averaged $118,054 and assistant professors $69,777, and private institutions, where full professors' average salary was $157,282 and assistant professors' $86,189.
Pay is substantially less at liberal arts colleges and community colleges. And at every type of college and university, men continue to earn substantially more than women.
The report, ''It's Not Over Yet: The Annual Report on the Economic Status of the Profession, 2010 11,'' based on data from more than 1,300 colleges and universities, found a continuation of a long-term trend of institutions using more graduate student employees, part-time professors and non-tenure-track instructors.
Such appointments now make up more than three-quarters of total faculty, compared with two-thirds in 1995.
And in the last three years, the number of tenure-track faculty members dropped 4 percent, while the number of full-time, non-tenure-track faculty members increased 8 percent.
''We're not even hiring tenure-track faculty to replace the tenure-track faculty that's retiring,'' said John Curtis, director of research and public policy at the association.
Terry Hartle, senior vice president at the American Council on Education, said the long-term shift to contingent faculty members could be seen as good or bad -- positive because colleges could more easily respond to changing student interests, negative because the loss of longtime tenured professors erodes a hallmark of American universities.
Either way, Mr. Hartle said, the change seems to be here to stay.
''Just as American companies have sought to maintain flexibility in their human resources policy, so are colleges and universities,'' Mr. Hartle said. ''And given the precarious financial situation facing most public colleges and universities, I don't see anything on the horizon to change the long-term trends we've been seeing.''
The American Federation of Teachers has been working for several years for legislation at the state level that would both increase the number of full-time faculty members and the pay and conditions for part-time members.
''Given the economy, it's been very difficult to make any headway,'' said Craig Smith, deputy director of higher education for the federation. ''But some states, like Oregon, have taken the concepts and put them in place.''
At the association of professors, Mr. Curtis said he was particularly struck by the widening gap between faculty salaries and salaries of presidents.
Over the last three years, the average salary increase for presidents was twice the average faculty salary increase at public institutions, and nearly three times the faculty salary increase at private institutions.
''Even in a period when they're asking everyone else to sacrifice, university presidents seem to think it's still O.K. for their salaries to go up significantly,'' Mr. Curtis said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A Lean Year: Faculty salaries rose slowly last year, just as they did the year before. (Source: American Association of University Professors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TRENDS (89%); ACADEMIC TENURE (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); SALARY SURVEYS (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



254 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the trade deficit for February and import prices for March (Tuesday); retail sales for March, business inventories for February, and the Federal Reserve beige book (Wednesday); the Producer Price Index for March and weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for March, industrial production and capacity utilization for March, and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for April (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Alcoa (Monday); JPMorgan Chase (Wednesday); Hasbro and Google (Thursday); and Bank of America, Mattel and Charles Schwab (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The Tribune Company and its creditors will meet with a mediator in an effort to exit Chapter 11 bankruptcy (Monday). A House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the use of wireless spectrum, and the Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing on derivatives regulations (Tuesday). A House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, and a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the future of the Federal Housing Administration and Ginnie Mae in the mortgage markets (Wednesday). Economic officials from the Group of 7 will meet in Washington, and a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing on oversight of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INVENTORIES (90%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (69%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%); ALCOA INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); SCHW (NYSE) (57%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



255 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Actors in Smaller Studios, Making Pictures for the Smaller Screen

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
CULVER CITY, Calif. -- The film set was professional, even if the actors kept messing up the scene by laughing at the star, who was flailing in front of a green screen, pretending to be eaten alive.
''We need it clean,'' the sound man shouted. They shot it yet again, the actors holding back their hysterics until the cameras were off.
The scene, an episode of a sketch comedy show called ''AsKassem,'' was destined not for theaters or TV, but for YouTube. But with the green screen, film crew, actors and expensive cameras and lights, it went far beyond the typical one-man YouTube videos filmed in a basement with a webcam.
It was produced by Maker Studios, one of several production houses that have sprung up to help create and distribute videos for the Web. Financed by venture capitalists and grants from Google's YouTube, these studios are trying to play the same role for the online video service that United Artists did almost a century ago for movies or MTV did for television in the 1980s. 
''These are new-generation studios, folks that are growing up from the basement who are choosing to collaborate and form these networks,'' said Hunter Walk, head of product management at YouTube. ''In many ways they are like the first cable stations 30 years ago.''
Maker Studios' videos, for instance, have almost as many daily viewers as Nickelodeon.
It is a major shift in Google's strategy for YouTube. Google is taking a much greater role in aiding the creation of original content for the site by nurturing these studios because betting on professional content from established movie and TV studios has not panned out.
YouTube sorely needs more high-quality content to compete with video-streaming services like Netflix and Hulu for both viewers and advertisers.
''YouTube counts for the largest share of people's home video-watching, but once people start watching that professional content on Hulu or Netflix, it quickly expands to become the predominant viewing and takes time away from YouTube,'' said James L. McQuivey, a digital media analyst at Forrester Research.
Some YouTube video creators have been making money, in some cases lots of it, for a couple years. But as the site has exploded -- 35 hours of video are now uploaded every minute, according to YouTube -- it can be hard for video creators to build regularly viewed channels, not just one-hit viral wonders.
The start-up production companies -- including Maker, Machinima, Mahalo, Vuguru and Next New Networks, which YouTube recently bought -- try to help them. The studios tend to be near but still outside the boundaries of Hollywood, both geographically and in the work they do.
They generally pluck talented video creators and help them make videos by providing the costumes, cameras and paychecks needed to make a more professional-looking video. They help build viewership with strategies like linking to their videos from other popular ones in the same network. YouTube sells ads and shares the revenue with the companies and creators.
Kassem Gharaibeh, the creator of ''AsKassem,'' was working at a Best Buy and doing stand-up on the weekends to crowds of 15 people at Chinese restaurants when he met the founders of Maker Studios. They paid him $1,000 a month, enough to pay his rent so he could quit his job and devote his time to posting videos more than once every three weeks.
Two of Maker's founders and well-known actors, Lisa Donovan and Shay Butler, known on YouTube as LisaNova and ShayCarl, appeared in his videos, introducing him to their audience. He gained access to editors and a camera crew, a house to shoot in (or sleep in), and closets overflowing with turquoise wigs and fake diamond crowns.
In a year, his YouTube audience ballooned from 50,000 to 1.3 million. ''I honestly don't think I would have been able to reach those numbers myself,'' said Mr. Gharaibeh, who goes by KassemG on YouTube.
The videos these studios produce are mainly sketch comedy, how-to lessons and video-game tutorials. But it is only a matter of time before long-form videos and episodic dramas appear online, video producers say. If Google TV takes off and people watch YouTube on their television screens, they could attract a much larger audience.
''I think you're going to see it happening any minute,'' said Allen DeBevoise, chief executive of Machinima, a network of video-game videos. ''That stuff's expensive, but we're getting there because advertisers are moving to online video.''
Machinima is negotiating with a Hollywood TV studio to buy ''Bite Me,'' a series about a zombie outbreak in Los Angeles that Machinima developed last year.
Last month, Shangri-La Entertainment uploaded a feature film made for the Web, ''Girl Walks Into a Bar,'' starring Danny DeVito and Rosario Dawson and sponsored by Lexus. The studio likes to point out that if the number of views it received in the first two days were movie tickets, the show would have made $2.6 million at the box office.
''We've gotten more and more sure over time that there are good economic reasons that the content distributed through cable is going to continue getting distributed that way,'' said Salar Kamangar, senior vice president of YouTube. ''But we have more and more reason to see the new kind of content for the Web is increasingly attracting viewers' minutes, so we're focusing on those.''
YouTube is nurturing them with ad revenue, coaching on copyright laws, and grants, like the $100,000 it gave Maker. It has hired people it calls strategic partner managers, whose job is to be on call for the studios, offering advice on things like uploading problems.
By developing such tight-knit relationships with the studios, YouTube is treading in risky territory. ''The second they go into the content business, their very valuable franchise of advertising, their ad network and their YouTube platform will come under attack, because why would anybody support somebody who competes with them?'' said Jason Calacanis, founder of Mahalo, which makes videos teaching subjects from math to guitar playing and cooking.
Mr. Walk said YouTube is hands-off in the creation of videos, and considers itself ''not a media company but a media catalyst.'' But when YouTube acquired Next New Networks, it overnight became a smalltime video creator.
''It's not at all a stretch to say they'll get into production -- not owning the producers, but investing,'' Mr. McQuivey said of Google. ''If Google does that, it gives these guys a shot at something they could never get in Hollywood, and it's the new model for producers.''
The studios are already a welcome home for the masses of struggling actors, writers and directors who show up in Hollywood hoping for work. But though their videos often catch Hollywood's attention, most of them, like Mr. Gharaibeh, say that's no longer what they want.
Ms. Donovan, the Maker co-founder, became hugely popular on YouTube with clips like her impersonation of Sarah Palin. She uploaded her Palin video more than a week before Tina Fey did her impersonation on ''Saturday Night Live.
She prefers to stay on the Web rather than get on television. ''This feels like this is the future,'' she said. ''Trying to get on TV would be going backwards in my mind. It's a waste of time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kassem Gharaibeh, left, during the filming of a video at Maker Studios in Culver City, Calif. (B1)
 Some of the founders of Maker Studios, from left, Dan Zappin, Lisa Donovan and Ben Donovan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); STREAMING MEDIA (75%); CABLE TELEVISION (75%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (65%); MOVIE FILMING (58%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); NETFLIX INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (55%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



256 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, a Job Discrimination Lawsuit's Unusual Question: Who Is a Man?

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
What is a man? For El'Jai Devoureau, this is not a rhetorical question.
Mr. Devoureau, who was born physically female, is a man at the Motor Vehicle Commission, at the Social Security office, at home, at job interviews. But what about at the urinal?
In a case with a truly unusual set of factors, Mr. Devoureau filed a discrimination lawsuit on Friday that could break new ground in New Jersey and across the country, turning on the question of who is or is not a man. An employer fired Mr. Devoureau because it said only a man was allowed to do his job: watching men urinate into plastic cups at a drug treatment center. 
Mr. Devoureau, 39, says he has identified himself as a man all his life. In 2006, after he began taking male hormones and had sex-change surgery, he adopted the name El'Jai (pronounced like L. J.). A new birth certificate issued by the State of Georgia identifies him as male, as does his New Jersey driver's license, and the Social Security Administration made the change in its records.
''As long as I've been a person, I've lived as a man,'' he said in an interview. ''At age 5, I did everything a boy did: I climbed trees, I played football, I played with trucks. Most of the people in my life, all they know is I'm male.''
Last June, Urban Treatment Associates in Camden hired Mr. Devoureau as a part-time urine monitor; his job was to make sure that people recovering from addiction did not substitute someone else's urine for their own during regular drug testing. On his second day, he said, his boss said she had heard he was transgender.
''I said I was male, and she asked if I had any surgeries,'' he said. ''I said that was private and I didn't have to answer, and I was fired.''
Calls to Urban Treatment were not returned. But after Mr. Devoureau made a complaint to the state's Division on Civil Rights, the treatment center filed a response in January saying that Mr. Devoureau's dismissal ''was not motivated by, nor related in any way to, any discriminatory intention.''
Civil rights laws and court decisions allow limited cases of favoring one group over another, like giving preference to women for jobs as nurses in maternity wards. In its January filing, Urban Treatment said that firing Mr. Devoureau was legitimate, ''since the sex of the employee engaged in that particular job position is a bona fide occupational qualification'' -- implying that Mr. Devoureau was not really a man.
Mr. Devoureau's suit, filed in Superior Court in Camden, is not the first job discrimination case brought by a transgender person, though those remain rare. But Michael D. Silverman, executive director of the Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund, said it was the first employment case in the country to take on the question of a transgender person's sex.
Mr. Silverman's group and the law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher are representing Mr. Devoureau.
New Jersey laws ban job discrimination based on a long list of criteria like age, religion, sex and race; in 2006, the state added ''gender identity or expression'' to that list. But five years later, Mr. Silverman said, no cases using the gender identity passage have been brought to a verdict, though others might have reached settlements.
New Jersey is one of 12 states that ban discrimination based on transgender status; New York State does not, but New York City does.
Mr. Devoureau now has another part-time job, as a package handler for a shipping company. Although his $10-an-hour post at the treatment center would hardly strike most people as a dream job, he wants it back. He says he needs the additional income to support himself and his 18-year-old son, and in a weak economy, he will take what work he can find.
Mr. Devoureau guards his privacy, refusing to discuss precisely what changes have been made to his body, or to say what name he was originally given, and he knows that his case could force such things into the open.
''They were judging me for who I am, not for the job I was being asked to do, and that's wrong, and I was hurt,'' he said. ''I'm doing this so everyone knows it's wrong, so it doesn't happen to anyone else.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: El'Jai Devoureau, 39, said he was asked by his supervisor if he had undergone any operations to change his sex. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (74%); GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



257 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13, 49) THE GREAT FAMINE When a devastating famine descended on Russia in 1921, Americans responded with a two-year relief campaign, championed by a new secretary of commerce, Herbert Hoover, a k a the great humanitarian. Nearly 300 relief workers, nicknamed Hoover's ''boys,'' encountered a railroad system in disarray, a forbidding climate and a ruthless government suspicious of their motives. By the summer of 1922 Americans were feeding nearly 11 million Russian citizens a day in 19,000 kitchens. This ''American Experience'' documentary from Austin Hoyt tells the story of an operation hailed for its efficiency, determination and generosity within the context of the Russian Revolution and examines the roots of the rivalry between the United States and the Soviet Union that would dominate the second half of the 20th century. 
8 P.M. (National Geographic) CIVIL WARRIORS: FAMILIES AT WAR In this three-hour program descendants of soldiers investigate their heritage, starting with Roger Fisk, whose ancestor fought in the Union Army to help free slaves. In other segments Christian Latham, a 22-year-old descendant of a private, tries to experience what his ancestors did 150 years earlier in their struggle for freedom. And Tim Sawyer questions whether his great-great-grandfather, a Civil War surgeon, could have saved the life of President Lincoln.
8 P.M. (Fox) HOUSE In this 150th episode Thirteen (Olivia Wilde) mysteriously reappears after what seems to have been a stint in prison, and House (Hugh Laurie, above, with Ms. Wilde) wants to know why she ended up there. Meanwhile the team treats a patient with respiratory problems who turns out to have been a hoarder.
8 P.M. (A&E) INTERVENTION IN-DEPTH: HILLBILLY HEROIN A report on prescription-pill trafficking in Scioto County, Ohio. Some fictional backwoods types can be seen in ''Deliverance'' (1972), at 8 on AMC, starring Jon Voight, Burt Reynolds and Ned Beatty as hunters who get in over their heads in rural Georgia.
9 P.M. (Travel) ANTHONY BOURDAIN: NO RESERVATIONS The chef Ferran Adria has called the Amazon the last great culinary frontier. Mr. Bourdain tests the theory by searching for gastronomical treasures found in this region of Brazil. Dishes include manicoba, whose base comes from the leaves of the manioc plant, ground and boiled to remove the poisonous chemical hydrogen cyanide; pork-leg sandwiches; and water buffalo cheese.
9 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: LOS ANGELES This spinoff returns with a retooled format and a tweaked cast. In this two-hour premiere episode Detectives Winters (Skeet Ulrich) and Jaruszalski (Corey Stoll) investigate the case of a quinceanera, or 15th birthday party, that erupts in violence, leaving a roomful of people dead. Morales (Alfred Molina) risks upsetting the Mexican government by prosecuting the culprits, which leads him to a shocking decision.
10 P.M. (Logo) THE NEWNOWNEXT AWARDS James Van Der Beek (''Dawson's Creek'') hosts this fourth annual ceremony honoring up-and-coming artists and trends. Categories include Brink of Fame Music Artist, Most Addictive Reality Star, Cause You're Hot and Best New Indulgence.
10 P.M. (ABC) CASTLE Becket (Stana Katic) and Castle (Nathan Fillion) investigate the death of a swimmer aiming for the Olympics. The real-life authors Michael Connelly and Dennis Lehane offer Castle their insights into the case over a game of poker.
10 P.M. (13) REDISCOVERING ALEXANDER HAMILTON The journalist Richard Brookhiser wrote and hosts this documentary, which focuses on the strengths and weaknesses of Hamilton -- the first Treasury secretary, a founding father, an economist, a political philosopher and the face on the $10 bill -- in six chronological segments. Beginning in the Caribbean, where Hamilton was born, the film travels to Yorktown, N.Y.; Wall Street, where he fought and worked; Harlem; and Weehawken, N.J., where he lived and died. Larry Flynt; Rupert Murdoch; Marilyn Milian, ''The People's Court'' judge; Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York; and Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court weigh in.
10 P.M. (Showtime) NURSE JACKIE Jackie (Edie Falco) discovers the younger sister of Kevin (Dominic Fumosa) sleeping off a hangover in the girls' bedroom and suspects that her husband has arranged for her to monitor Jackie after an unsuccessful intervention. Back at the hospital an Orthodox Jew battles the parents of his critically ill wife over her treatment. In ''The United States of Tara,'' at 10:30, a stressed-out Tara (Toni Collette) finds her alter egos struggling for dominance. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF JIM MYNES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMINE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ARMIES (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); CYANIDES (63%); HEROIN (50%)

PERSON: HUGH LAURIE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BRAZIL (79%); GEORGIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



258 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: The President Is Missing

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
What have they done with President Obama? What happened to the inspirational figure his supporters thought they elected? Who is this bland, timid guy who doesn't seem to stand for anything in particular?
I realize that with hostile Republicans controlling the House, there's not much Mr. Obama can get done in the way of concrete policy. Arguably, all he has left is the bully pulpit. But he isn't even using that -- or, rather, he's using it to reinforce his enemies' narrative.
His remarks after last week's budget deal were a case in point. 
Maybe that terrible deal, in which Republicans ended up getting more than their opening bid, was the best he could achieve -- although it looks from here as if the president's idea of how to bargain is to start by negotiating with himself, making pre-emptive concessions, then pursue a second round of negotiation with the G.O.P., leading to further concessions.
And bear in mind that this was just the first of several chances for Republicans to hold the budget hostage and threaten a government shutdown; by caving in so completely on the first round, Mr. Obama set a baseline for even bigger concessions over the next few months.
But let's give the president the benefit of the doubt, and suppose that $38 billion in spending cuts -- and a much larger cut relative to his own budget proposals -- was the best deal available. Even so, did Mr. Obama have to celebrate his defeat? Did he have to praise Congress for enacting ''the largest annual spending cut in our history,'' as if shortsighted budget cuts in the face of high unemployment -- cuts that will slow growth and increase unemployment -- are actually a good idea?
Among other things, the latest budget deal more than wipes out any positive economic effects of the big prize Mr. Obama supposedly won from last December's deal, a temporary extension of his 2009 tax cuts for working Americans. And the price of that deal, let's remember, was a two-year extension of the Bush tax cuts, at an immediate cost of $363 billion, and a potential cost that's much larger -- because it's now looking increasingly likely that those irresponsible tax cuts will be made permanent.
More broadly, Mr. Obama is conspicuously failing to mount any kind of challenge to the philosophy now dominating Washington discussion -- a philosophy that says the poor must accept big cuts in Medicaid and food stamps; the middle class must accept big cuts in Medicare (actually a dismantling of the whole program); and corporations and the rich must accept big cuts in the taxes they have to pay. Shared sacrifice!
I'm not exaggerating. The House budget proposal that was unveiled last week -- and was praised as ''bold'' and ''serious'' by all of Washington's Very Serious People -- includes savage cuts in Medicaid and other programs that help the neediest, which would among other things deprive 34 million Americans of health insurance. It includes a plan to privatize and defund Medicare that would leave many if not most seniors unable to afford health care. And it includes a plan to sharply cut taxes on corporations and to bring the tax rate on high earners down to its lowest level since 1931.
The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center puts the revenue loss from these tax cuts at $2.9 trillion over the next decade. House Republicans claim that the tax cuts can be made ''revenue neutral'' by ''broadening the tax base'' -- that is, by closing loopholes and ending exemptions. But you'd need to close a lot of loopholes to close a $3 trillion gap; for example, even completely eliminating one of the biggest exemptions, the mortgage interest deduction, wouldn't come close. And G.O.P. leaders have not, of course, called for anything that drastic. I haven't seen them name any significant exemptions they would end.
You might have expected the president's team not just to reject this proposal, but to see it as a big fat political target. But while the G.O.P. proposal has drawn fire from a number of Democrats -- including a harsh condemnation from Senator Max Baucus, a centrist who has often worked with Republicans -- the White House response was a statement from the press secretary expressing mild disapproval.
What's going on here? Despite the ferocious opposition he has faced since the day he took office, Mr. Obama is clearly still clinging to his vision of himself as a figure who can transcend America's partisan differences. And his political strategists seem to believe that he can win re-election by positioning himself as being conciliatory and reasonable, by always being willing to compromise.
But if you ask me, I'd say that the nation wants -- and more important, the nation needs -- a president who believes in something, and is willing to take a stand. And that's not what we're seeing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); MEDICARE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); MEDICAID (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



259 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Now, the Hard Part For Nervous Republicans

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Step 1 for Congressional Republicans, in pursuing their perceived election mandate, was the new spending-cut compromise with President Obama, reached Friday.
Step 2 comes with a radically higher degree of difficulty.
Because it involves a threat to resist increasing the federal debt limit, this phase could jeopardize Republicans' relations with business donors who help finance their campaigns. Because it involves cuts in Medicare, it endangers the votes of older Americans who helped fuel their midterm victories.
Even more problematic: Medicare cuts appeared nowhere in House Republicans' 2010 Pledge to America. To the contrary, it attacked Democrats for cutting Medicare. 
Indeed, Step 2 presents a supreme test of a party's ability to claim, define and enact an electoral mandate - which is never easy. No wonder Rep. Paul D. Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, acknowledged that his budget plan would hand Democrats a political weapon.
''They're right to be nervous about it,'' said James A. Stimson, a University of North Carolina political scientist and a co-author of the recent book ''Mandate Politics.'' By his measure, the resistance of Democrats who still control the White House and Senate means Republicans cannot claim a mandate any more than Mr. Obama could upon taking office in 2009.
''The history of parties that pursue ambitious policies without a mandate is, they get in trouble,'' he said. ''Look no further than Obama and health care.''
The Elusive Mandate
Mandates are elusive because voters cast ballots for people, not policies. As fluctuating polls demonstrate, public preferences represent an ephemeral composite of considerations - some contradictory, like the simultaneous desire for minimal taxes and robust services.
Mr. Obama, running in 2008, promised ''affordable, accessible health care for every American.'' He won 53 percent of the vote.
But Mr. Obama promised many things and watched as economic conditions deteriorated drastically during his campaign. Republicans ferociously contested his mandate on health care - and made political gains even while failing to block the legislation.
In practical terms, concluded Mr. Stimson and his co-authors, Lawrence J. Grossback and David A. M. Peterson, policy mandates exist only when both parties embrace common interpretations of an election's results. Since World War II, that has happened only three times, by the authors' reckoning.
One was 1965, after President Lyndon B. Johnson's landslide election over Barry Goldwater. Moderate Republicans, battling Goldwater conservatives for party control, joined Democrats to create Medicare.
Another was 1981, after Ronald Reagan won the presidency. Conservative Democrats, convinced that their party had moved too far to the left, joined Republicans to cut income tax rates.
The third was 1995, after Newt Gingrich led the successful effort to break the Democrats' 40-year grip on the House. President Bill Clinton conceded, ''The era of big government is over.''
Even so, Mr. Clinton ultimately outmaneuvered Mr. Gingrich as he pursued the Republican mandate. The fact that Mr. Clinton outlasted Mr. Gingrich in office represents a cautionary tale for Speaker John A. Boehner.
Flirting With Danger
After the 2010 elections, Mr. Boehner asserted, ''It's pretty clear the American people want us to do something about cutting spending.'' Mr. Obama, in signing a 2011 budget for domestic discretionary programs that is far below what he proposed when Democrats ran the House, accepted that point.
But the White House has not accepted the Republicans' point on how to cut Medicare. And history suggests that Republicans risk a backlash by seeking to pare that program or the Social Security system that Franklin D. Roosevelt established after his 1932 Depression-era victory.
As popular as he was in 1981, Mr. Reagan was forced to quickly back off his administration's proposal to curb Social Security benefits.
In 1995, Mr. Gingrich pursued Medicare cuts that were not part of his Contract With America. That proved crucial to Mr. Clinton's comeback and 1996 re-election.
President George W. Bush in 2004 pledged to overhaul Social Security. Frightened Republicans killed the idea - and lost Congress in 2006 anyway.
What makes Republicans' current effort an even bigger high-wire act is that they have effectively made it a condition of cooperation on the debt limit. Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase warned recently that failing to raise the limit could produce a ''catastrophic'' reaction from investors.
So 2010 victors like Senator Patrick J. Toomey of Pennsylvania face difficult choices. Last year, Mr. Toomey said, ''I haven't read'' Mr. Ryan's plan. Last week, Mr. Toomey said Mr. Ryan deserved ''a great deal of credit'' for his plan. But he reserved judgment on its contents.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WRITERS (87%); DEBT CEILING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%); INCOME TAX (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



260 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: The Crisis Next Time: The cuts to keep government running are far too large, and the next battle could be worse

 BODY:
The federal government survived the hostage crisis created by House Republicans, but emerged staggering from the deal struck Friday night. The compromises were damaging, the amount of money cut from a sickly economy was severe, and the image of Washington as a back-alley dogfighting garage will not soon fade.
The Republicans set the terms of the debate at every point, and learned that they can push the fumbling and fearful Democrats far to the right. Within hours, they began revving up to create the next crisis. 
Although much of the final deal has not yet been made public, it is clear it could have been far worse. The White House refused to accept many of the most radical cuts in the original House bill, including deep reductions to Head Start, AmeriCorps, Pell grants, public broadcasting and competitive education programs. Financial and health care reform will continue but with reduced money. The worst right-wing demands were dropped, including a cutoff of funds to providers of abortion and family planning, and an end to regulation of greenhouse gases. And nearly half the cuts came from a side of the budget that will do less harm to the economy and the most vulnerable.
Nonetheless, the Republicans did far better than they could possibly have imagined when the process began, winning $38.5 billion in cuts, more than even the House leadership had proposed. That's on top of the $40 billion in additional spending that President Obama had originally proposed for this fiscal year, which was dropped. About $13 billion will be cut from the departments of Labor, Education, and Health and Human Services. The State Department and foreign assistance will lose $8 billion.
Key investments in roads, rails and other vital public works will again have to wait, and because these cuts will change the spending baseline for future budgets, may never be restored to their proper levels. (Defense spending will go up by only $5 billion over the next six months, not the $7 billion Republicans wanted.)
Democrats also agreed to the ideological demand of House conservatives that the District of Columbia be banned from spending any money for abortions, a cruel blow to the poor and largely African-American women who need those services. The ban was lifted in 2009.
The worst aspect of the deal, however, was the momentum it gave to Republicans who have hoodwinked many Americans into believing that short-term cuts in spending will be good for the economy. After the agreement was reached, President Obama actually patted himself on the back for agreeing to the ''largest annual spending cut in our history.''
He should have used the moment to explain to Americans what irresponsible cuts the G.O.P. demanded just to keep the government open. Now, having won the philosophical terms of this debate, the House is eagerly anticipating the next and far more serious showdown: the need to raise the federal debt ceiling by May 16.
If it is not raised, the government will go into default, which could have a disastrous effect on the credit markets and the economy. House Speaker John Boehner said after the budget deal that there was ''not a chance'' the Republicans, who like to pretend they are the fiscally responsible party, would agree to raise the ceiling ''without something really, really big attached to it.'' He may be pandering to his Tea Party members, but the threat is real.
Mr. Obama will speak this week about a plan to reduce the long-term deficit, and aides are already making it clear he will finally demand that taxes for the rich must go up. The fight next time will be rougher and the principles need to be stronger. The Democrats' message must be far more convincing than it has been, and their counterattack against Republican irresponsibility far more powerful.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (53%); GREENHOUSE GASES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



261 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Budgeting For Opportunity

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
When politicians are fortunate, they get to choose the goals their budgets set. In periods of recession, they can budget for growth. Facing huge deficits, they can budget for austerity. In times of plenty, they can budget for upward mobility and equality of opportunity.
Our leaders are not so lucky: they somehow need to budget for all three goals at once. 
With an unemployment rate over 8 percent, the United States needs growth as desperately as at any moment since the early 1980s. At the same time, our national debt is climbing toward levels that promise to undercut the foundations of American prosperity -- either slowly, by exerting a permanent drag on the economy, or suddenly, in a debt crisis that would make the 2008 meltdown seem like smooth sailing by comparison.
So we need pro-growth policies and long-term deficit reduction. But even that combination isn't enough. The American dream depends on social mobility as well as rising G.D.P., and a strong middle class as well as a balanced budget. We had a growing economy and a shrinking deficit as recently as George W. Bush's second term, but we also had wage stagnation, a dysfunctional health insurance system and increasing socioeconomic stratification. These problems haven't gone away, and they, too, demand a policy response.
This is the context in which to assess last week's sweeping budget proposal from Paul Ryan, the Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee. The debate over whether Ryan cuts too much and taxes too little is important, but relatively predictable. (Liberals say yes; conservatives say no.) The more interesting question takes the proposal's conservative framework as a given, and then asks how well it balances growth, austerity and opportunity.
Here Ryan's budget goes two for three. In outline, at least, it strikes a plausible balance between the dual imperatives of growth and fiscal discipline. It restrains spending without trying to bring the budget into balance overnight: its principal deficit-cutting measure, the transformation of Medicare from an open-ended entitlement into a program that pays a share of seniors' health care premiums, isn't phased in until the 2020s. In the meantime, it pursues growth through tax reform, promising to lower individual and corporate rates while weeding the thicket of market-distorting tax deductions.
As Republicans refine their proposals, though, they need to focus more on economic mobility than the Ryan budget does. Public policy is going to be made from inside a fiscal straitjacket for the foreseeable future. But within that straitjacket, Washington can favor policies that enhance working-class opportunity, while ruthlessly paring back those that subsidize the affluent. The goal shouldn't just be small government, but what the economist Edward Glaeser calls ''small-government egalitarianism.''
There are elements of this vision woven into the Ryan budget -- cuts to farm subsidies, means-testing for Medicare, and promises to go after tax expenditures that primarily benefit the rich. But at least in its initial draft, too much of the budget's austerity is borne by downscale Americans. The Ryan proposal would repeal the Obama health care plan without replacing it, throwing the uninsured back into a broken insurance marketplace. It would trim Medicaid more enthusiastically than corporate welfare. And its central economic premise -- that lowering marginal tax rates guarantees widely shared prosperity -- was tested and found wanting during the Bush era.
A budget more completely informed by small-government egalitarianism might try to make the recent payroll tax cut permanent, rather than just cutting income tax rates. It might attack handouts for oil and natural gas companies as well as those for alternative energy, and slash agricultural subsidies more dramatically than the Ryan budget does. While thinning out the maze of tax deductions, it might expand the earned-income tax credit and the child tax credit, both of which make it easier to earn a decent living and form a stable family. While trying to repeal Barack Obama's health care plan, it would insist on replacing it with the kind of universal tax credit that Ryan himself has previously championed.
None of these ideas run counter to the conservative belief in limited government. (Though many of them do run counter to the desires of Republican interest groups.) Rather, they offer a way of limiting government that's particularly suited to the challenges facing Middle America today.
Conservatives have spent a lot of time talking about American exceptionalism of late. But not every threat to the American dream comes from runaway spending. The United States was increasingly stratified, and the middle class increasingly squeezed, well before Barack Obama won the presidency. Against this backdrop, conservatives will deserve to win the looming fiscal battle only if they find a way to budget not only for austerity, but for opportunity as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); MEDICARE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); ELDER HEALTH (66%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%); TAX REFORM (64%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



262 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA TO CALL FOR BROAD PLAN TO REDUCE DEBT

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama will call this week for Republicans to join him in writing a broad plan to raise revenues and reduce the growth of popular entitlement programs, as the battle over the nation's financial troubles moves past Friday's short-term budget deal and into a wider and more consequential debate over the nation's long-term fiscal health.
In a speech to be delivered at a university here on Wednesday, Mr. Obama will in effect come off the sidelines on the debate over reducing the nation's debt, which is reaching dangerous heights as the population ages.
After months of criticism that he has not led on budget talks, Mr. Obama will urge bipartisan negotiations toward a multiyear debt-reduction plan that administration officials said would depart sharply from the one proposed last week by House Republicans. 
The Republican plan includes a shrinking of Medicare and Medicaid and trillions of dollars in tax cuts, while sparing defense spending. Mr. Obama, by contrast, envisions a more comprehensive plan that would include tax increases for the richest taxpayers, cuts to military spending, savings in Medicare and Medicaid, and unspecified changes to Social Security.
In his remarks, which come after Friday's bipartisan deal to cut domestic spending by about $38 billion for the remainder of this budget year, Mr. Obama will not offer details but will set deficit-cutting goals, White House officials said. The numbers were still under discussion on Sunday.
''He'll lay out his approach this week in terms of the scale of debt reduction he thinks the country needs so we can grow economically and win the future -- a balanced approach,'' David Plouffe, the senior White House political strategist, said on ''Fox News Sunday,'' one of four talk shows on which he appeared Sunday.
''Obviously, we need to look at all corners of government,'' Mr. Plouffe said, adding, ''We're going to have a big debate.''
Until now, Mr. Obama has avoided prescribing specific changes to entitlement programs like Medicare, beyond those contained in his health care overhaul. Indeed, few of the recommendations made by his own bipartisan fiscal commission were included in the budget he presented to Congress in February.
What is more, while Mr. Obama proposed a five-year freeze on the growth of domestic spending, he recommended increases in education, research, infrastructure and clean-energy programs -- emphasizing that although deficit reduction is important, so are investments to create jobs and skilled workers.
The growing debate over federal spending and taxes is certain to ripple from the White House and Congress to the 2012 presidential campaign, helping to shape voters' assessment of Mr. Obama's record and challenging rivals for the Republican presidential nomination to respond, even as they court conservative voters who oppose any compromise with Mr. Obama.
Whether anything tangible comes of the debate, it will contrast the parties' visions of the role of government.
Republicans reacted skeptically to word of Mr. Obama's speech. ''I sit here and I listen to David Plouffe talk about, you know, their commitment to cut spending and knowing full well that for the last two months we've had to bring this president kicking and screaming to the table to cut spending,'' Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, said on Fox.
The timing of Mr. Obama's remarks reflects a White House strategy devised late last year after Republicans won their House majority, together with the confluence of four events, two last week and two ahead.
Friday night's 11th-hour agreement on spending cuts, which averted a government shutdown, removed what had been a distraction for months over this year's unfinished federal budget. Administration officials said they also hoped that the compromise helped build trust with the House speaker, John A. Boehner, that would carry over to the larger debates about long-term spending and the national debt.
Some lawmakers said Sunday that they opposed the compromise, but leaders in both parties remain confident it will pass in the House and Senate this week.
Also last week came a moment the administration had been awaiting for months: Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the House Budget Committee chairman, outlined House Republicans' long-term budget plan.
Mr. Ryan said it would cut $6 trillion in the coming decade, though budget analysts questioned some of the claimed savings. The plan would turn Medicare into a voucher program for future generations and slash spending for the need-based Medicaid program and other domestic initiatives, while largely sparing the Pentagon and cutting $4 trillion more in corporate and high-income taxes.
The White House settled on a strategy in December by which Mr. Obama would wait for the House Republicans to lay down their cards before he proposed major reductions in popular entitlement benefit programs, according to interviews with administration officials at the time.
Mr. Obama's budget waiting game, however, has helped to fuel widespread criticism by Republicans, pundits and some Democrats that he has failed to lead.
Another impetus to Wednesday's move is the White House's belief that a bipartisan ''Gang of Six'' senators will announce this week that they have reached agreement on a debt-reduction package similar to that of the president's fiscal commission.
After months of private discussions, the tentative agreement among the three Republican and three Democratic senators would cut military and domestic programs and overhaul the tax code, eliminating popular tax breaks but using the new revenues to lower income-tax rates and reduce annual deficits. It would be the model, if not in all details, for Mr. Obama's own goals, Democratic officials say.
Perhaps the biggest prod for Mr. Obama to act, however, is the need for Congress to vote to raise the legal limit on the federal debt, now $14.25 trillion. The government will hit that limit on its borrowing authority in as few as five weeks, the Treasury Department has said. Without an increase by early July, the government cannot continue to make payments on its existing debt, potentially forcing it into an economy-shaking default.
Speaking on Saturday in Connecticut, Mr. Boehner said Republicans would not agree to raise the cap ''without something really, really big attached to it.''
Unlike the recent spending-cut negotiations, in which Mr. Obama was not active until the final days, ''he knows he has to take a greater role from the beginning'' on the debt-limit measure and any companion plan for reducing debt, said an adviser who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Several presidential advisers interviewed in recent weeks said Mr. Obama has been torn between wanting to propose major budget changes to entice Republicans to the bargaining table, including on Social Security, and believing they would never agree to raise revenues on upper-income Americans as part of a deal.
Three House Republican leaders, including Mr. Ryan, were on the fiscal commission; unlike the three Senate Republicans, they opposed the recommendations because they raised revenues and did not cut enough from health care.
The risk to Mr. Obama includes further alienating liberals in his own party. Progressive groups have formed coalitions to oppose any changes to Social Security, for instance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Paul Ryan, at left, has outlined the Republicans' budget plans. President Obama will present his ideas Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUTERS
 PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); JOB CREATION (60%); MEDICAID (56%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



263 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Stop Waiting for a Savior

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY A. HACSI. 
Timothy A. Hacsi, an assistant professor of history at the University of Massachusetts, Boston, is the author of ''Children as Pawns: The Politics of Educational Reform.''

 BODY:
Boston
DID Cathleen P. Black, the former publishing executive who was removed last week after just three months as New York City's schools chancellor, fail because she lacked a background in education?
In this respect, she has had quite a bit of company over the decades. In 1996, Washington hired a former three-star Army general, Julius W. Becton Jr., to take over its low-performing schools; he left, exhausted, after less than two years. For most of the last decade, the Los Angeles Unified School District was run by non-educators: a former governor of Colorado, Roy Romer, and then a retired vice admiral, David L. Brewer III. They got mixed reviews. Raj Manhas, who had a background in banking and utilities, ran Seattle's schools from 2003 to 2007, balancing the budget but facing fierce opposition over his plans to close schools.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who had hired Ms. Black without public discussion, quickly replaced her with a deputy mayor steeped in education policy. But the real issue is not the superintendent's or chancellor's background, but the excessive emphasis that politicians, educators and parents place on the notion of leadership rather than on empirical evidence about what improves education. 
Even as the specific fixes advocated for schools have changed, the role of school-district leaders has gotten greater attention -- and the selection process has become more political.
It doesn't always take actual success to be lauded and promoted, nor does an education background guarantee anything. Roderick R. Paige became superintendent of Houston schools in 1994 and in 2001 parlayed his ''Houston miracle'' to become President George W. Bush's secretary of education, and the point man for the No Child Left Behind law. That Houston's test-score increases and low dropout rates were mirages did not impede Mr. Paige's ascent or the emphasis on testing as a magic bullet.
Perhaps the best-known school leader today is Michelle A. Rhee, who was schools chancellor in Washington from 2007 to 2010. She aggressively took on the teachers' union, but made more headlines than lasting reforms.
Of course, judging success is difficult. It is not clear what a superintendent would have to do to be universally seen as successful by teachers, parents, politicians, businessmen and taxpayers. One person's savior is another's villain, just as in politics. And unlike in politics, superintendents often have second lives; look no further than two of Ms. Black's predecessors, Ramon C. Cortines, now the superintendent in Los Angeles, and Rudolph F. Crew, who became superintendent in Miami.
The record shows, however, that serial superintendents tend to do worse -- at least in public perception -- in their later jobs, which would seem to argue against the importance of experience in the field of education.
Ms. Rhee's predecessor in Washington, Clifford B. Janey, had run the schools in Rochester, where he seems to have had a positive impact on test scores and the achievement gap. From Washington he went to Newark, where after two years he was shown the door.
Paul G. Vallas's tenure as the head of Chicago's schools, from 1995 to 2001, was generally seen as a success. His later stint in Philadelphia was less triumphant, relying as it did on privatizing school management, an idea with ideological appeal but little supporting evidence. Now he runs the schools in New Orleans, a herculean task.
Americans' forward-looking disposition has many advantages, but one downside is that we tend to avoid problems as they develop and then either rise to the occasion (think World War II), or take half-hearted steps before moving on (think of New Orleans). School reform requires long-term efforts, but instead we look for a George Washington to fix our schools through intelligence, strength of will and, more recently, going after the right enemies (namely unions).
The singular attention on school-district leaders is a consequence of developments over the last three decades or so. In 1978, Proposition 13, which capped property taxes in California, convinced politicians across the country that tax increases amounted to political suicide, thereby making it harder to increase school financing. In 1983, ''A Nation at Risk,'' a government report that was more publicized than read, declared our public schools to be failing. Since then education reform has been driven by a fear of international economic competition but also constrained financially; superintendents come and go, while the challenges mount.
Cathie Black lasted only three months instead of the more typical three years, but her failure seems more one of public relations than of educational leadership. The problem is all the time we spend talking about how the last leader failed, how the current leader is struggling, how the next leader must succeed.
Until the headlines and our attention focus on what the research shows can directly improve school performance -- additional money, used wisely; longer school days; better-paid and better-prepared teachers; year-round schooling -- instead of the latest savior/soon-to-be-failure, we, like Ms. Black and Mr. Bloomberg, are missing the point.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHER SILAS NEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); POLITICS (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (70%); BUDGETS (68%); ARMIES (57%)

PERSON: CATHLEEN BLACK (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



264 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Close-Knit, New to the House, And Resistant to Blending In

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Even by the standards of Capitol Hill, where the bonds of friendship form quickly and endure, the four Republican freshmen from South Carolina stand out.
They eat most dinners together (their newest find is Thai) and play basketball, poorly, in the House gym between 9 p.m. and 11 p.m. They can be seen walking out of the Capitol into the afternoon sun, just to chat about family.
And they were together late Friday night, when they shared a prayer before going to the House floor to vote with a mere 24 other Republicans against a spending deal hatched by Democrats and Speaker John A. Boehner to keep the government running.
''We come from a state that is prepared to go at a quicker pace with respect to cutting and reshaping and resizing government,'' said Representative Trey Gowdy of the South Carolina delegation, a former prosecutor. 
The new lawmakers -- Mr. Gowdy and Representatives Jeff Duncan, Mick Mulvaney and Tim Scott -- are making their own mark, both within their freshman caucus, where they are well liked and respected (Mr. Scott is on the freshman leadership team), and among House leaders.
Their vote Friday against a short-term spending agreement, after a bruising battle that put the federal government an eyelash away from shuttering, is a bracing reminder for Mr. Boehner of the challenges he will continue to face as he tries to lasso his caucus --particularly its most conservative backbenchers, who are spoiling for the fight with Democrats.
Coming into this year, one of the great questions about the 87 Republican freshmen who rode the anti-establishment wave into the House was whether they would be swept up in the culture of Washington, compromising for the sake of party unity and losing what had made them distinct to a frustrated electorate last fall.
If the four South Carolina freshmen are any indication, though, the new members are doing just the opposite -- turning to one another for mutual reinforcement and support, creating a ballast wall against the business-as-usual climate that tends to homogenize elected officials. And there are signs that their fellow freshmen from states like Arkansas, Florida and Illinois are standing together as well.
While the four men are still pondering how they will vote next week on the bill to finance the government through the rest of the year, they conceded that their ''no'' vote against a short-term bridge plan was a pretty good harbinger.
''Trey said if you're going to vote no on the final spending plan, you should vote against the one that gets you there,'' Mr. Duncan said.
South Carolina, with its hardscrabble political culture, small-town milieu and complex role in American history, has produced its share of notable politicians, from John C. Calhoun in the 19th century to Representative Joe Wilson, whose contemporary claim to fame was yelling ''You lie!'' at President Obama as he delivered a speech before Congress.
This reliably conservative state, where the economy is deeply troubled and town-hall-style meetings are regularly full of voters pressing lawmakers to tame the national debt, has produced four congressmen who are unlikely to back down too much as they seek deeper spending cuts and far-reaching changes to social policy.
''These guys are extremely popular here,'' said Katon Dawson, a recent chairman of the Republican Party in South Carolina, which is a crucial proving ground for Republican presidential candidates. ''If your rhetoric matches your votes in South Carolina, you never have a re-election problem.''
Of course, members from the same state often hang together. But the particularly tight bond among the four men has been noted by their peers.
Mr. Duncan, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Scott all overlapped in the South Carolina Legislature. Mr. Gowdy, who never held political office before, knew some of them from the Liberty Fellowship, a nonpartisan leadership program for South Carolinians.
''The state is not particularly large,'' Mr. Mulvaney said. ''If you're in politics, you're going to start to see the same people over and over again.''
The four men often feel compelled to account for one another's votes, and frequently visit their neighboring districts to provide backup.
For example, Mr. Mulvaney met with business leaders in Charleston the Monday after Mr. Scott, whose district covers part of the city, voted for an earlier version of the short-term spending plan.
''There were a lot of folks there saying, 'Why has Tim changed?' '' Mr. Mulvaney said. ''Not only was I able to defend him, I was really happy to defend him. It was tactics, and I was able to help him get that message out in his district.''
The men do not always vote in tandem, but they consult regularly -- with Mr. Mulvaney on budget matters, and Mr. Scott and Mr. Duncan on legislative tactics and energy. Mr. Gowdy advised his colleagues on provisions of the Patriot Act before a vote on it.
''We got together to talk about Friday's vote as we have many, many times and said, 'Where are you on this?' '' Mr. Duncan said.
The men are aware that their state has been dinged repeatedly on the national stage, including over the Miss Teen USA contestant who struggled mightily with a question about Americans and maps and over the former governor, Mark Sanford, who reinvented what it meant to walk the Appalachian Trail.
''We have a poor reputation nationally,'' Mr. Scott acknowledged. ''And I think sometimes when you feel like an underdog, the troops coalesce.''
The men are close outside work, too. Mr. Duncan and Mr. Scott share an apartment, and Mr. Gowdy, who sleeps in his office, and Mr. Mulvaney, who prefers inexpensive hotels, are considering a share of their own.
Mr. Mulvaney is the group's restaurant sleuth. He discovered a Thai restaurant they all like to frequent -- it was Mr. Duncan's first time with that type of cuisine -- and Tortilla Coast, a Tex-Mex spot near the Capitol.
''I also found the Democrat Chinese restaurant,'' he said. ''We went the other night. There were pictures of Democrats all over the wall.'' They soon realized they had stumbled into a fund-raiser for Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, the Ohio liberal and sometime presidential candidate.
''We stayed,'' Mr. Mulvaney said. ''The food was good.''
The lawmakers said they would not be easily pressed into votes for measures they felt would compromise their standards, even if the hands of leadership weigh heavy upon them in the coming battle over whether to raise the country's debt ceiling or to support a Republican budget plan that would rewrite major entitlement programs.
''We have no influence and no seniority,'' Mr. Gowdy said. ''Our only hope is advocating together for the people of South Carolina.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Representative Trey Gowdy, right, with Speaker John A. Boehner
 from left, Representatives Jeff Duncan, Tim Scott and Mick Mulvaney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BASKETBALL (72%); FAMILY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); HISTORY (63%)

PERSON: MICK MULVANEY (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); TIM SCOTT (88%); TREY GOWDY (88%); JEFF DUNCAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



265 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Furloughs, But Paydays For the Brass

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; Twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
Just in case Gannett employees thought 2011 might bring better news after years of layoffs and furloughs, the year was just four days old when a note landed in the in-box of people who work for the community news division saying, once again, they were required to take an unpaid week off.
After explaining that revenues at the newspaper giant continued to be soft and the outlook was uncertain, Robert J. Dickey, Gannett's president of U.S. Community Publishing, said, ''I know furloughs are very hard on you and your families and I thank each of you for the continued commitment and great work.''
Mr. Dickey made it clear that not only did the company's executives feel their pain, they would share the sacrifice, noting that he too would take a furlough and that Craig A. Dubow, the chief executive, and Gracia C. Martore, the president and chief operating officer, ''each will be taking a reduction of salary that is equivalent to a week's furlough.'' 
But as it turns out, the buck stopped just short of Mr. Dubow and other executives. Mr. Dubow had agreed to lower his salary by 17 percent through 2011, but then again, last month he received a cash bonus of $1.75 million for 2010 and Ms. Martore received $1.25 million. For 2010, they were also awarded stock, options and deferred compensation that would bring their combined packages to $17.6 million if the company and its stock hits certain targets.
A company spokeswoman pointed out that 70 percent of their compensation was noncash and dependent on future performance. In fact, the top six executives at the embattled publishing company would receive 2010 compensation packages of more than $28 million if the company does very well, which seems unlikely, but the symbolism remains.
The savings from two years of mandatory furloughs for the rest of Gannett employees: $33 million. Well, that didn't go very far, did it?
This is not a story about incompetents feeding at the trough, although a lot of Gannett employees would say that is precisely what the story is about. Yes, revenues have declined at the company four years in a row and the stock price is down more than 70 percent, but even divine intervention could probably not fix all that is wrong with Gannett and publishing in general. The company has 23 television stations, but with 82 newspapers, many of them dailies in small and medium-size cities, the company was bound to be clobbered by a recession on the one hand and a systemic flight from advertising in newspapers.
Gannett's flagship, USA Today, is a once-robust national newspaper but has lost 20 percent of its circulation in the last three years. About a week ago, I was at the Marriott in Detroit, and as I stepped over the newspaper at my door as I usually do, I then wondered why. It occurred to me that everything in that artifact that would be useful for me -- scores from the teams I follow, a brief on big news and a splash of entertainment coverage -- I had already learned on my smartphone and tablet before leaving the room. Gannett is aware of the challenge and has moved aggressively into mobile, with six million downloads of its apps, but those marginal revenues will not fill the hole created by challenges to its core business.
In terms of financial engineering, Mr. Dubow and his crew have done a good job with a bad hand. Last year, revenue was down only marginally, and according to the company operating cash flow was $1.3 billion, up 19 percent from 2009, while debt was reduced by $710 million, to $2.35 billion.
That's a testament to what the Street would call ''aggressive cost management.'' But out in the rest of the world, we know that generally means dumping bodies overboard, and Gannett is a high achiever when it comes to downsizing. In the five years that Mr. Dubow has run the company, its work force has gone from 52,000 employees to just over 32,000.
Most of its employees are nonunion, so the leadership is free to manage as it sees fit, including telling some people their careers are over and telling the people that remain not to come to work.
''It has been incredibly galling to watch them lining up for these big compensation packages while they have squandered every opportunity to make the kind of changes necessary for the company to survive,'' said an employee of USA Today. (She and others I spoke to said that there would be retaliation if they spoke for attribution.) ''Meanwhile, we have had furloughs three years in a row, so you can't help but feel exploited and angry.''
The cuts have had an impact beyond the people who work for the company: The readers in towns and cities that are served by Gannett newspapers are finding a lot less news when they open up the morning paper. The company has always had a reputation for stellar margins built on barebones newsrooms; now it has the worst of both worlds.
In announcing that Mr. Dubow would receive a hefty package, double the previous year, Gannett hardly shied away from part of what was driving the award: ''The company achieved substantial expense reductions through a variety of efforts, including continued centralization and consolidation efforts and salary freezes, positioning the company for growth as economic conditions improve.''
Ken Doctor, an analyst at Outsell and the author of ''Newsonomics,'' suggested that Gannett is mostly in the business of managing entropy.
''There has not been a lot of strategy other than cost-cutting to maintain profits and some small bets in digital that have not had any significant impact yet,'' he said.
While their approach may be lacking in imagination and long-term strategy, Mr. Dubow and his team can be credited with being prudent in difficult times. Prudent, except when it comes to their own compensation.
On the Gannett Blog, gannettblog.blogspot.com an independent site about the company, employees have expressed a high level of frustration and outrage about the compensation going to the folks at headquarters while people in the field watch newsrooms and their compensation shrink.
''Pure and simple, a laugh in every employee's face,'' said one anonymous poster on the day the packages were announced.
Jim Hopkins has been editing the Gannett Blog since he took a buyout from USA Today where he was a business reporter in 2008.
''It has become a case study in how a mature company facing sudden and tremendous pressure tries to save itself,'' he said. ''It's been fascinating to watch in real time, but I think there have been terrible consequences. Gannett has a big footprint in 100 communities, and those places have less and less information.''
''I wouldn't want their jobs,'' he concedes. ''But there is so little empathy for the employees and so little understanding of how these packages are perceived. I think they don't realize how this looks.''
Obviously.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Craig Dubow, chief executive of Gannett, received a $1.75 million cash bonus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SERBAN/ BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PUBLISHING (76%); STOCK OPTIONS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (71%); PRINT ADVERTISING (60%); RECESSION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (92%)

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

PERSON: CRAIG A DUBOW (90%); GRACIA MARTORE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011



266 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Marvell Co-Founders Sue Goldman Sachs

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The two executives accuse Goldman of duping them into selling shares of their semiconductor company so Goldman could buy them for its own account.

 BODY:
At the height of the financial crisis, two co-founders of Marvell Technology had to sell a big portion of stock in the semiconductor company after a margin call from Goldman Sachs. On Monday, the co-founders, Weili Dai and Sehat Sutardja, filed a lawsuit in California Superior Court alleging that Goldman duped them into selling the shares so it could buy them for its own account. "Goldman forced its clients to unnecessarily liquidate their holdings through forced margin calls, only to repurchase these same shareholdings for accounts owned by Goldman and its related hedge funds, some currently under investigation by the federal government," according to the complaint. Margin cases are hard to win. Customers typically sign detailed contracts before they can to borrow on margin, allowing institutions like Goldman to act swiftly to liquidate holdings to meet margin calls. Customers usually have to fight their claims in arbitration, a closed-door process, but in this case lawyers for Ms. Dai and Mr. Sutardja are arguing that California law opens the door for them to bring their grievance to court. A Goldman spokesman declined to comment, saying the company had not yet seen the complaint. Mr. Sutardja is the president, chief executive and chairman of Marvell and Ms. Dai, another co-founder, is a vice president and general manager of communications and consumer business. 
Mr. Sutardja and Ms Dai are married. The pair made headlines in 2006 when the Securities and Exchange Commission announced it was investigating Marvell over stock option backdating, in which companies improperly say that options were granted on an earlier date in order to make them more valuable for those receiving them. In 2008, Marvell paid a $10 million fine to settle the backdating charges. Ms. Dai agreed to pay $500,000 to settle allegations that she picked the dates in hindsight and signed false meeting minutes to cover her actions. Ms. Dai, once the chief operating officer, was barred from serving as a director or an officer for five years.
Goldman took Marvell public in 2000. As is often the case when a firm takes a company public, the two co-founders turned their personal financial affairs over to Goldman. The two executives, according to the complaint, told Goldman they were conservative investors and made it clear to Goldman that they did not want to sell their Marvell holdings, worried their selling would send a negative signal to investors in the company. As a result, they decided to use their holdings in Marvell as collateral to buy other stocks. In 2008, at Goldman's suggestion, according to the complaint, Ms. Dai and Mr. Sutardja bought shares in a technology company, Nvidia. Not long after, Nvidia shares plunged, and Goldman quickly moved to liquidate the pair's Marvell holdings. Ms. Dai and Mr. Sutardja objected, asking instead that Goldman give them time to sell other less liquid holdings. Family members of the couple even offered to put up collateral, according to the complaint. Ms. Dai and Mr. Sutardja contend that Goldman used false grounds to push the sale of the Marvell stock, telling them that a Securities and Exchange Commission rule, called the "S.E.C. Five Dollar Rule," required Goldman to liquidate Marvell immediately. Marvell shares traded below $5 for a few hours on one day during the financial crisis, according to the plaintiffs' complaint. While many firms do not allow stocks valued at less than $5 to be held as margin, there is no S.E.C. rule governing this, according to the complaint.
Lawyers for Ms. Dai and Mr. Sutardja argue that Goldman raised the specter of a rule to justify the firm's decision to liquidate the Marvell holdings, rather than work with the couple to find another solution. The couple eventually sold 8.6 million shares when Marvell was trading at $6.40. The stock closed on Monday at $16.05. The stock sale reduced their Marvell stake to 65.2 million shares, from 73.8 million shares, lowering their ownership to 10.6 percent, from 12 percent. 
"But for the lies about the need for a margin call and but for Goldman's desire to profit at their expense, Dai and Sutardja never would have sold their Marvell shares," the complaint asserts. The value of the shares they sold now totals about $138 million. Although the complaint says Goldman repurchased the shares for its own accounts and hedge funds, the suit provides no evidence to support this.
Marvell Co-Founders' Lawsuit Against Goldman Sachs

        
A Preview of the Trials and Tribulations in 2011 
        
Casting a Wider Net in the Galleon Insider Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIQUIDATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); BONDS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%) Goldman Sachs; Marvell; Marvell Technology; Sehat Sutardja; Weili Dai; Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Marvell Technology Group Ltd; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Technology

COMPANY: MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); NVIDIA CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Marvell Technology Group Ltd

TICKER: MRVL (NASDAQ) (92%); GS (NYSE) (92%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (50%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



267 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: The Impact of China's Consumers

BYLINE: DAVID BARBOZA


HIGHLIGHT: A conversation with Karl Gerth, an Oxford professor and the author of "As China Goes, So Goes the World: How Chinese Consumers Are Transforming Everything."

 BODY:
In "As China Goes, So Goes the World: How Chinese Consumers Are Transforming Everything," Karl Gerth outlines China's growing consumption patterns but then adds an ominous note. He writes, "Nobody fully understands just what they might be sowing, for the Chinese or for the rest of the globe, by continuing to insist that the Chinese consume more and more."
Mr. Gerth, who teaches modern Chinese history at Oxford University, does not have clear answers to the questions he poses. But his book insists Chinese leaders are rapidly tearing down barriers that have restricted average citizens from consuming more. He explains the trends that have now made China the world's largest car market, but also how China is still a center of counterfeiting. Professor Gerth agreed to answer questions about his book, which is published by Hill & Wang, a division of Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
Mr. Gerth: Undoubtedly. Take advertising alone, which is a defining feature of living in a consumer-oriented society. The political slogans of the Mao era have been largely replaced over the past few decades with advertisements. Now advertisements are ubiquitous. I've even encountered LCDs blasting me with ads in toilet stalls, cabs and elevators.
As with so much in China, the transformation has been both dramatic and rapid. China's ad market has grown by 40 percent a year over the last two decades; some reports expect China to replace the United States as the world's largest ad market as soon as 2020. Nearly all Chinese, rich and poor, have access to TVs and the advertising that comes with it. So even the poor are aware of all the new products and services spreading in China.
Brands are a second important piece of evidence of a shift toward consumerism. They are a key way consumers communicate identity to others. Not long ago, China had few national brands and access to international brands, even Coke or McDonald's, was rare. Now these brands are commonplace and China and MNCs [multinational corporations] are quickly creating nationwide brands across product and service categories, a process of creating not only integrated national markets but also unified consumer consciousness through brands.
So, yes, consumer culture permeates media and brands, and chain stores have begun to standardize consumer experiences and expectations, and for tens of millions of Chinese, especially younger urbanites, brands define their identities.
Mr. Gerth: Clearly, hundreds of millions of Chinese are still desperately poor. But hundred of millions have begun to adopt all or some aspects of middle-class lifestyles - from bigger homes stocked with the latest electronic appliances to private cars to modest vacations. These Chinese have begun to lead consumer lifestyles similar to their counterparts in other countries.
The question remains, though, whether China can create a middle class as broad as the United States did after World War II. Or will China continue to create a two-tier society: an elite with resources to consume unlimited luxury goods and vast majority living on much less? Of course, this isn't just a question for China but many countries, including the United States, where all statistics indicate the country, ironically, is heading in the opposite direction from the one global business and political leaders want to see in China, away from having a broad middle class.
Regardless of the exact size of the developing middle classes in China, even the current size of the consuming classes is having significant impacts. Sooner rather than later, global products and brands will be shaped by Chinese consumer tastes.
Mr. Gerth: The implications of Chinese consumerism are wide-ranging, interconnected, and include both the positive and the ominous. Take cars. Fifteen years ago few Chinese owned cars. But in 2009, China surpassed the United States as the world's largest car market and grew another 40 percent in 2010. This is good news for multinationals like G.M., which now sells more cars in China than in the United States. Anyone invested in stock markets may already be benefiting from Chinese consumerism. And in the coming years, China may do for cars what it has done for so many other products one finds in Wal-Mart: drop the prices and increase the variety. They are clearly aiming to lead the way with electric cars.
But there are many other unfortunate implications. Even with the continual addition of new and wider roads, cities like Beijing cannot confiscate land, demolish residential buildings, and build roads fast enough to accommodate all these new cars. Witness the 100-kilometer-long traffic jam outside of Beijing, which made international news but hardly surprised anyone there. Worse than traffic jams, these roads are gobbling up China's valuable agricultural land. And cars aren't fueled by loving kindness. China lost its energy independence in the 1990s and now, as with the many Western countries, its need for imported oil forces its government into international relationships with unsavory leaders in countries like Sudan.
Mr. Gerth: Luxury brands and cars are the most obvious beneficiaries and will continue to be so. But consumer spending has nearly quadrupled since 2000. And global brands in products and services are investing heavily. Look at G.M., Tesco, Apple and all the other multinationals banking on Chinese consumer spending. Starbucks alone has just announced plans to triple its number of stores in China to 1,500 by 2015. Five years ago, when I began to research my latest book, I started a list of No. 1's for the Chinese consumer: largest consumer of mobile phones, beer, beef, etc. But, of course, this doesn't mean Chinese will pay any price and buy into any brand and the lifestyles promised, as the demise of the Barbie superstore in Shanghai confirms.
Mr. Gerth: It's still early; Sony wasn't built in a day.
I have a longstanding interest in the persistence of economic nationalism in China and I have no doubt that China will do whatever it takes to create internationally competitive brands. The Chinese state views creating internationally competitive brands to be a matter of utmost importance in their strategy of moving up and away from labor- and energy-intensive manufacturing and toward a higher value-added service economy. The creation and spread of such brands is one reason I claim in the subtitle of my book that Chinese consumerism will change "everything." Everything ranges from the biosphere to the consciousness of global consumers, which is comprised of brands.
What they cannot build, they will buy, as they have begun to do with Volvo and many other established brands, including regional ones. For instance, recently Li Ning, China's top domestic sports brand, entered into an alliance with Lotto Sport Italia, and Peace Mark, Asia's biggest watch retailer, bought Swiss watch brand Milus. These are modest cases. I think everyone is waiting to see what the giant state-owned enterprises do. After all, the top 20 companies in China in terms of revenue are state-owned (including such companies as Sinopec, China Mobile, China First Automobile, and the Internet provider Netcom). All are sitting on large capital reserves. It'll be interesting to see how they decide to build and buy global brands. Indigenous or acquired Chinese brands are only a matter of time.
Mr. Gerth: There will be many positives, especially from the point of view of consumers. Chinese brand building could lead to the creation of dozens of new Sonys and Googles. They also lead to cheaper prices for things intended for both the China and foreign markets. Indeed, China may continue to shift its manufacturing prowess and aid the transition away from nonrenewable energy sources and the consumer goods like gas-driven cars that rely on them, leading the way to the post-carbon economy and society even as it continues to emit the most carbon.
While the potential benefits are nice to contemplate, I think the downsides also require attention. Chinese markets may become more like Western ones. But the reverse is also true. Rather than China increasingly protecting the intellectual property like the brand integrity of multinationals, perhaps counterfeits manufactured in China and exported globally will undermine global brands and consumerism itself. This is happening. Even as retailing and branding have been encouraging much more consumption in China, consumer confidence (both nationally and internationally) has been undermined by the massive production of Chinese counterfeits.
Protecting and creating brand identities is critical to modern consumer culture. If consumers regularly got sick after drinking Evian water, an imported premium brand in China, few would continue to buy that brand. If there were frequent stories of brakes malfunctioning on $80,000 BMW sports cars, nobody would want one.
China may not simply embrace and extend consumerism as it has developed in the West and Japan but fundamentally alter and even challenge it.

        
Making Choices 'as if the Future Matters'
        
Using Economics to Help the World's Poor
        
Why Success Starts With Failure
        
'The Big Thirst': The Future of Water
        
A Fresh Look at Fighting Global Poverty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TRENDS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); WRITERS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); RETAILERS (73%); BRANDING (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); COUNTERFEITING (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%); EVIDENCE (50%) Book Chat; Karl Gerth; Advertising and Marketing; Consumer Behavior; Economic Conditions and Trends; China; Gerth, Karl; Economix

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



268 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: A Stingy Traveler Stung by Hotel Fees

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I AM not so big on luxury travel. I'm simply too cheap, even when I'm traveling on the company dime.
These days, living in southern Arizona, my idea of first-class transportation is a good horse (All that legroom! No security agents pawing at you and your saddlebag!). And I'm still bragging about the hotel rate I got the last time I was in New York: a cool $89 a night at the La Quinta Inn near Kennedy International Airport -- including free breakfast and Internet, plus an airport shuttle.
Nevertheless, after a long recession in the hospitality industry that cut deepest at the top-end properties, upscale hotels have been climbing back. According to Smith Travel Research, the leading industry analyst, occupancy rates were up 18.1 percent and average room rates up 9.9 percent in the ''upper-upscale'' segment of the domestic hotel industry for the week ended April 2, over the comparable week in 2010. Both rate increases led the industry. 
Luxury hotel people now use terms like ''frugal fatigue'' to explain why many upscale customers who had switched to less expensive hotels with fewer amenities during the recession are now coming back. But most executives I know in this exalted segment of the industry have also been saying that once good times did return, luxury customers would probably be far more demanding of ''value.''
As to ''value,'' let's consider what many business travelers regard as the most annoying aspect of staying in these hotels: being nickel and dimed with fees and surcharges. We have become accustomed to free Internet, free parking, free breakfast and maybe even a free nightly cocktail hour at many midscale and sometimes even economy-scale chain hotels. But five-star hotels and luxury convention hotels have long been notorious for slapping on extra fees for a wide range of services.
Like many business travelers, I'll opt for the convenient midscale hotel brand whenever I can. But on occasion, there is no choice but a high-end hotel for events like days-long business conferences.
I did this last week, when I stayed for two nights at the splendidly named Arizona Biltmore A Waldorf Astoria Resort, a venerable resort spread across 39 lushly manicured acres in Phoenix. It's a beautiful property that does a big convention business. I wish I could say my stay reflected the new attitude toward value. But let's examine the billing and fees.
When I booked in early March, I got a confirmation, $654.70 for both nights, including taxes. My credit card was billed for a one-night deposit, $327.35. But when I checked out, the total room rate came to $672.70 -- $18 more.
The breakdown on my statement at checkout was interesting. There was a charge of $12 for something mysteriously listed as ''Bellman Grat-Porterage,'' a gratuity fee for bellhop service I did not require or use. There was also a $3 nightly charge for ''housekeeping gratuities.'' (I always tip the housekeeper by leaving money on the pillow, and as cheap as I can be, it's always more than $3.)
I had stayed at the Biltmore for the two-day annual Phoenix International Aviation Symposium. As is the case with most convention planners, the symposium ''negotiated a group contract in advance with the Biltmore, which included the bellman and housekeeping gratuity,'' a statement from a public relations firm for the hotel, P&G Communications, said,
Nevertheless, I checked the hotel's Web site for a routine booking this week and found that the hotel charges a $28-a-day service fee for everyone.
In the luxury segment, hotel fees that create the most annoyance, beyond Internet charges, have include charges for bellhops and housekeeping, which often show up during conventions and conferences. Some hotels also add so-called resort and amenity fees, and some add a surcharge for groundskeeping.
The fee-fest is back in full force, said Bjorn Hanson, dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. In 2008, hotels added a total of about $1.75 billion in fees and surcharges. That fell to $1.55 billion in 2009 because occupancy dropped so sharply at the high-end hotels during the recession. For 2011, the figure will be higher; ''in fact, it's likely to be a record,'' Mr. Hanson said.
Most fees and surcharges, he said, ''occur in upper-upscale and luxury hotels, and both the numbers of types of fees and surcharges and the amounts are increasing.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); LODGING (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESORTS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (76%); HOTEL AMENITIES (76%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (76%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



269 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Gas Prices Rise, and Economists Look for a Tipping Point

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Gas prices are approaching record highs, but so far most Americans do not appear to be drastically cutting back their driving or even their spending as they did in 2008.
The question, economists agreed, is what happens if prices continue to go up and remain high.
Prices for a gallon of regular unleaded gas are topping $4 at more service stations nationwide, revisiting the bleak territory of three years ago, when the average price for a gallon of regular gas reached a peak of $4.11 on July 17, 2008, according to the Oil Price Information Service. 
The survey of about 100,000 stations showed gas prices were now averaging $3.77 a gallon nationwide. The average is already more than $4 in California, Hawaii and Alaska, and analysts at the oil information service said drivers were paying more than $4 at some stations in at least three other states -- Illinois, Connecticut and New York.
The government's Energy Information Administration on Monday put the average price for a gallon of regular gasoline slightly higher at $3.79, up 10.7 cents from the previous week and nearly a dollar higher than the same time last year.
Even with the higher prices, economists said recent broad data had continued to be positive.
The labor market, for example has continued to strengthen, with the economy adding 216,000 jobs in March. And a survey of 25 retailers tracked by Thomson Reuters posted a 1.7 percent increase that same month, contrary to analysts' forecasts.
But economists are still trying to determine the longer-term economic impact.
''Once we cross the $4 threshold, the pain will become more palpable, and it is going to show up more noticeably in the reduction in future consumer spending,'' said Bernard Baumohl, the chief global economist for the Economic Outlook Group. He predicted that ''spending on discretionary goods will be diminishing as the price of gasoline keeps moving higher.''
He also pointed out that the government's retail sales figures for March, a broader measure that also takes into account more sectors and categories, will be released on Wednesday. ''I would not be at all surprised that non-gasoline purchases are beginning to suffer,'' he said.
John Gamel, the director of gasoline research for MasterCard, noted the good jobs report last month. ''It has been a tug of war,'' he said, between the improved labor market and any drag of higher gas prices.
He said that a MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse report showed that gasoline consumption fell 3.6 percent in the week ending April 1, year on year, the fifth consecutive decline.
''Even with the better labor market, consumers are cutting back on their driving,'' Mr. Gamel said. ''That is something we will have to watch.''
The decline may also be caused by Americans' switch to more fuel-efficient cars since 2008.
''As bad as it is to see $4 pump prices,'' the economy is in better shape now than it was three years ago, said James W. Paulsen, the chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management.
''The recent surge in energy prices may well slow the pace of economic recovery in the next few quarters,'' he wrote in a research note on Monday. ''However, the different position and tenure of the U.S. job market could be the reason why the contemporary energy crisis may prove more a consumer irritant at the pump than a cycle-ending recession risk.''
Economists are also saying that industries that depend on travel revenue, like recreation and hotel businesses, could feel the pinch over the Memorial Day weekend and during the summer.
The rise in gasoline prices began to gain steam after political turmoil surged in the Middle East in February. Commodity prices soared amid heightened concerns over supply disruptions, especially from Libya, even though other producers offered to make up for any shortfall. Crude prices climbed to their highest level in more than two years last Thursday, closing higher than $110.
''Money has been pouring into all commodities at an incredible pace for the last four months,'' said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst with the Oil Price Information Service.
''I think we have hit the tipping point,'' he said of gasoline prices. ''The sweet spot this year for economic growth without damaging demand was probably $3.25 to $3.75.
The surge in commodity prices has been so pronounced that Federal Reserve officials have commented on gasoline prices. On Monday, in fact, Janet L. Yellen, the vice chairwoman of the board of governors of the Fed, said that rising energy and food prices were creating ''significant hardships'' for many people and that the Fed was watching the effect on inflation.
Economists said they expected that Americans would make fewer nonessential trips by car, particularly over Memorial Day or for summer vacation, or would consolidate more trips for work with errands.
''People just don't have the elasticity in their budgets,'' said Robert Sinclair Jr., a spokesman for AAA New York.
Still, many Americans are like Jon Wood, a 49-year-old mechanic who, after the run-up in gas prices in 2008, reluctantly bought a Nissan Sentra for his 80-mile round-trip commute to his job in Greenwich, Conn.
Now, with the price for a gallon of gas at $4.19 at the station where he works, he is glad he did.
''I drive something very economical,'' Mr. Wood said of his car, a 1993 model that gives him 30 miles to the gallon on the highway. ''Normally, it would not be my first choice.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stations nationwide are changing prices in one direction: higher. The average is nearing $4 a gallon for regular unleaded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH SRAKOCIC/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHARTS: PRICE OF REGULAR GASOLINE
MILES DRIVEN EACH YEAR (Sources: Energy Information Admin.
 Federal Highway Admin.) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GAS STATIONS (79%); GASOLINE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); SALES FIGURES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RETAIL SALES (69%); RETAILERS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



270 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PRECIOUS WATERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Indians Join Fight for an Oklahoma Lake's Flow

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
TUSKAHOMA, Okla. -- Sardis Lake, a reservoir in southeastern Oklahoma young enough to have drowned saplings still poking through its surface and old enough to have become a renowned bass fishery, is not wanting for suitors.
Oklahoma City and fast-growing suburbs like Edmond want to see the water flowing through their shower heads someday. So do the water masters of Tarrant County, Tex., 200 miles to the south, who are looking to supply new subdivisions around Fort Worth and are suing for access.
Now another rival has arrived: the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes, who were exiled to southeastern Oklahoma 175 years ago and given land in the area.
Gregory Pyle, chief of the Choctaw nation, said his tribe would sue to win some of the water if necessary. ''All this water was controlled originally by the Indian tribes in this area,'' Mr. Pyle said. ''It is all Choctaw and Chickasaw water.'' 
The tribes want the state to recognize them as joint owners. The issue has been increasingly on the minds of city planners in fast-developing cities as they contemplate the prospect of tapping other existing water sources.
By midcentury, water is expected to loom as large as oil in the economic and political life of the country, as parties race to lock up supplies. As droughts exacerbated by climate change and by population growth expand in the Great Plains and the Southwest, Indian water rights loom as a largely unsettled -- and unsettling -- factor that could affect the price and availability of water to millions of homes and businesses.
''There are huge and vested rights to water that are unquantified,'' said Taiawagi Helton, an expert on Indian law and water law at the University of Oklahoma College of Law and a member of the Cherokee tribe.
Turning theoretical rights into what is widely termed ''wet water'' under the terms of long-ago court rulings can take decades. Each case involves other local water users, the state government, the Interior Department, the local Congressional delegation and the federal court system.
A 103-year-old Supreme Court decision effectively put tribes in Western states at the head of the line in times of water shortage, or if a water basin is oversubscribed. But Interior Department officials want to be certain there are no big losers when a tribe's rights are recognized.
If the Choctaw and Chickasaw were to gain water rights under that old court ruling, legal experts say, it could prompt a new push for similar rights across Oklahoma, which has 39 federally recognized tribes. It could also encourage more tribes in the West to start claiming their reserved rights.
Despite the age of the Supreme Court ruling, known as the Winters doctrine, efforts to quantify tribes' water rights proceeded at a crawl until the 1980s and 1990s. Since then, about three dozen Indian claims have been tabulated, mostly though drawn-out settlements. Today the Interior Department is presiding over water negotiations with 18 tribes.
A push by the department and by senators in Arizona, Montana and New Mexico resolved four claims at the end of last year. Yet unlike tribes whose rights were signed into law recently, the Choctaw in Oklahoma no longer have reservations, which raises the question of whether water claims must be tied to a specific land grant. The tribes' land was parceled out to tribal members more than 110 years ago.
Still, ''the water was never taken away,'' said Stephen Greetham, the lawyer for the Chickasaw nation.
When the Choctaw did have reservations, their land covered virtually all of southeastern Oklahoma and was watered by the Kiamichi River, whose tributary, Jackfork Creek, was impounded by the Sardis Dam in 1982. The tribes' goals are to have some ownership and control over the water, to keep as much water as possible in the lake and to enhance southeastern Oklahoma's recreational industry.
And, assuming the water is valuable, they want to share in the profits from selling or leasing it.
That prospect is unsettling for places that could face water shortages, like Oklahoma City and suburbs like Edmond, whose City Council has already voted to issue $102.5 million in bonds to help bring Sardis Lake water 110 miles north, to the taps of new homes. It is even more unsettling in the Southwest, where irrigated agriculture and industries consume most of the available water.
Daniel McCool, director of the environmental studies program at the University of Utah, cautioned that the more broadly tribes seek to assert their rights, the greater the risk that the federal courts -- the Supreme Court in particular -- will trim or even eviscerate earlier rulings establishing Indian rights. ''It's case law, and case law can be changed,'' Professor McCool said.
The political pushback against Indian rights could come from other local users who fear for their livelihoods, said Chris Kenney, a former federal water rights negotiator now living in Oklahoma.
''You've got local people who have used water for many, many years,'' Mr. Kenney said. ''In many cases they are at enormous risk.''
A settlement just approved by Congress and signed by President Obama granted water from a Colorado River tributary to the Navajo tribe. Two New Mexico towns, Bloomfield and Aztec, are suing to overturn it.
Interior Department officials suggest that the Navajo case is an exception. Negotiated settlements are far more advantageous to both tribes and existing users than litigation, they said in an e-mail response to a query.
Other claims are waiting in the wings. A California tribe, the Chemehuevi, whose reservation was partly inundated in the 1930s when Parker Dam was constructed and Lake Havasu was created in one of the hottest parts of the Mojave Desert, has the right to some Colorado River water. It uses less than a fifth of that annually.
But an effort by the tribe 15 years ago to get federal approval to sell some of the excess met with objections from water users in the area and died for lack of federal support. Now the Chemehuevi would like to lease some water to the Barona Band of Mission Indians in the San Diego area, their lawyer, Lester Marston, said.
Mr. Marston said he wanted to avoid a cumbersome settlement process, however, and Interior Department officials have not warmed to his shortcut. In a statement, department officials said they preferred settlements because they involved the consent of a large number of water users and ''benefit the community.''
Also in California, the Tule River Tribe is trying to get rights to water from the South Fork of the Tule River. Mr. Kenney, who is advising the tribe, said the effort was stalled, but would continue.
The Apache in Oklahoma have gone to federal court, so far unsuccessfully, seeking to sell or lease water to the Tarrant County water agency in Texas. And the largest Oklahoma tribe, the Cherokee, has received mixed signals from federal courts as to its rights concerning the Illinois River.
A leading Oklahoma water official said in an interview that he wanted to negotiate with the Choctaw and Chickasaw. ''Certainly we're not foreign to the concept of sitting around the table and working things out with tribes and these tribes in particular,'' said the official, J. D. Strong, executive director of the Oklahoma Water Resources Board, the state's primary water agency. ''It will happen if the leadership of this state wants to do that.''
So far two Oklahoma governors -- Brad Henry, a Democrat who left office in January, and his successor, Mary Fallin, a Republican -- have not opened formal negotiations with the tribes over Sardis Lake. Alex Weintz, a spokesman for Governor Fallin, said in an e-mail that the governor was awaiting a report being prepared by the state water agency before deciding on her approach.
Mr. Pyle, the Choctaw chief, said he worried most about preserving the economic viability of southeastern Oklahoma for recreation. ''When water goes from a region, so goes your economy,'' he said.
He said that before water leaves the area, there should be a complete study of local needs and local capacity.
''I want to make sure for history going forward that we have enough water here,'' he said.
Precious Waters: This article is the first in a series about struggles over dwindling water supplies across the United States.
Correction: July 6, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 12 about efforts by the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes in southeastern Oklahoma to gain recognition as joint owners of local water supplies referred imprecisely to the location of Choctaw reservations in the United States. While the Choctaw in Oklahoma have no reservation, there are Choctaw reservations in Mississippi and Alabama; it is not the case that the Choctaw no longer have reservations. This correction was delayed when an email sent internally was overlooked at The Times.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2011 Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
FRONT PAGE
An article on April 12 about efforts by the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes in southeastern Oklahoma to gain recognition as joint owners of local water supplies referred imprecisely to the location of Choctaw reservations in the United States. While the Choctaw in Oklahoma have no reservation, there are Choctaw reservations in Mississippi and Alabama; it is not the case that the Choctaw no longer have reservations. This correction was delayed when an email sent internally was overlooked at The Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sardis Lake near Tuskahoma, Okla., is sought as a source of water by communities from Oklahoma City to Fort Worth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) GRAPHICS: Needing More Water, Coast to Coast Large areas of the United States have reduced their withdrawals of water over the last 25 years. But an analysis suggests that if warming related to climate change occurs as anticipated in the next quarter-century, the demand for water would rise in most places. (Sources: Thomas C. Brown, U.S. Forest Service)
 MAPS (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); SUPREME COURTS (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DROUGHT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FISHERIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); APPEALS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (93%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (72%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



271 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Dance, Laugh, Drink. Save the Date: It's a Ghanaian Funeral.

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
At 2 a.m. on a Saturday in the Bronx, the dance floor was packed, the drinks were flowing and a knot of young women with stylish haircuts and towering heels had just arrived at the door, ready to plunge into the fray.
It could have been any nightclub or wedding hall -- except for the T-shirts, posters and CDs bearing the photo of an elegant older woman. The raucous party was, in fact, a funeral for Gertrude Manye Ikol, a 65-year-old nurse from Ghana who had died two months earlier. A few blocks away, guests spilled out of an even more boisterous memorial.
The Irish may be known for their spirited wakes, but Ghanaians have perfected the over-the-top funeral. And in New York City, these parties anchor the social calendar of the fast-growing community of immigrants from that West African nation.
Held nearly every weekend in church auditoriums and social halls across the city, they are all-night affairs with open bars and window-rattling music. While the families are raising money to cover funeral expenses, teams of flourishing entrepreneurs -- disc jockeys, photographers, videographers, bartenders and security guards -- keep it all humming while turning a tidy profit. 
There may or may not be a body present, or a clergyman. The beliefs expressed may be evangelical Christian, Roman Catholic or secular. The deceased may have died in New York or in Africa, a few days or a few months earlier. But the funerals all serve the same ends -- as festive fund-raisers for bereaved families and as midnight reunions for Ghanaian nurses, students, scientists and cabdrivers looking to dance off the grind of immigrant life in New York.
''To us it's a celebration, but to an American they see it as a place of sadness,'' Manny Tamakloe, 27, an aircraft mechanic, shouted over the music as he sipped a Guinness at Mrs. Ikol's funeral. ''If you're Ghanaian and you come here, you'll see 10 or 12 people you know and they'll introduce you to somebody. And before you know it, you know everybody.''
''Why go to the bar,'' he asked, ''when you can come here and get it for free?''
Weddings, christenings and birthdays are all celebrated heartily in Ghanaian circles, but few match the scale and decibel level of the memorial service. When Kojo Ampah, 34, finds himself without weekend plans, he phones his wide circle of fellow expatriates to ask, ''Hey, is there any funeral?''
Generally come-one-come-all, the memorials have become larger and more frequent in recent years as New York City's Ghanaian population has grown and become more settled, community leaders say. The latest census estimates show that there are about 21,000 Ghanaians in the city, mostly in the Bronx, up from 14,000 in 2005.
The parties are fervently anticipated, promoted weeks in advance with online advertisements -- ''Save this day,'' one said, ''as I celebrate the life of my mother'' -- or with stacks of glossy fliers that pile up at African restaurants and groceries. The fliers often resemble theater playbills, with photos of the grieving family and friends, known as the ''chief mourners,'' as well as credits for the M.C. and technical staff.
A well-attended funeral carries great social prestige -- and the bigger the party, the better. On a Friday night when Mr. Tamakloe had already been to two, he described the arrangements for a stranger's coming memorial in the Bronx.
''Everybody's saying this is going to be the hottest funeral of the year,'' he said.
Henry Boateng, an engineer, has spent months planning a funeral this Saturday for his father, Albert Ernest Boateng, who died in July in Ghana. At least 300 people will show up, he predicted.
The parties are a direct import from Ghana, where funerals are world-renowned for their size and extravagance. Coffins there sometimes resemble Mardi Gras floats; an athlete's might be shaped like a soccer ball, a fisherman's, like a canoe.
In Ghana, ''the most significant cost you're going to incur in your life is not going to be your wedding -- it's going to be your funeral,'' said Brian Larkin, a Barnard College anthropology professor who studies West African culture.
''People get caught up in a competitive display,'' he continued.
As in Ghana, funeral guests in New York need not know the deceased or even the family. But they are expected to pay respects to the bereaved, cut loose on the dance floor and donate $50 to $100 -- though many do not pay -- to help fly the body back to Africa or cover other costs. A big party can raise thousands of dollars.
Indeed, the funerals are the hub of a buzzing economy. Henry Ayensu, who owns a printing company called Cre8ive House in the Bronx, said he had printed fliers for 12 Ghanaian funerals in the past two months, many more than usual.
Photographers are crucial. Six worked Mrs. Ikol's funeral on March 4, and each brought a laptop, a color printer and an assistant. They snapped photos of partygoers, then printed them on the spot and sold them for $10 to $20 apiece.
The funerals have become such money makers that the pretexts for them are sometimes a bit thin, Mr. Ampah said. A New Yorker, for example, might hold a party for a cousin's niece's husband who died in Ghana, even if the two had never met and few of the proceeds are intended for the family back home.
Mr. Ampah said a taxi driver he knew made $6,000 on such an event. ''People won't begrudge him because people are happy to come show support and have fun,'' he said.
The funerals usually begin around 10 p.m. with religious blessings, ceremonies and speeches in English and Twi, a Ghanaian language. By midnight, the dancing has started. By 2 a.m., the funeral-crashers have arrived, and the party is in full swing.
Outside Mrs. Ikol's funeral, held in a church hall near Tremont Avenue in the Bronx, late arrivals stood by their cars, changing from puffy jackets and jeans into traditional toga-style wraps of red and black, the colors of mourning. A half-dozen private security guards flanked the door.
''By the time they leave, it's 5 a.m. -- always,'' said Carlos Rozano, a guard who has worked more than a dozen Ghanaian funerals.
Inside, the M.C. praised Mrs. Ikol as a devout Catholic and a loyal friend, his voice amplified by a 15-foot tower of speakers. The music began, and by 2 a.m. the room throbbed with the sounds of highlife, a Ghanaian blend of jazz, brass-band songs and African rhythms. A video camera captured the scene, which was projected onto a giant screen above the stage.
Francis Insaidoo, a biochemist who recently moved to New York, said funerals reminded him that he belongs to a community. ''It feels like you're not alone,'' he said.
He did not know Mrs. Ikol, he said, but his roommate did. The roommate, swigging a beer, acknowledged with a shrug that actually, no, he did not know her either.
''You come for a party,'' Mr. Insaidoo said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kofi Sylvester Dwemoh, 4, at a memorial in the Bronx for Hanah Yaa Appiah, who died in Ghana. (A1)
Family members and friends danced during a memorial service for Hanah Yaa Appiah, who died at age 83 in February.
At the memorial for Ms. Appiah. Ghanaian funerals can last until dawn. A slide show is at nytimes.com/nyregion.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Members of the Christian Mothers Association at a service in the Bronx for Gertrude Manye Ikol, a 65-year-old nurse, who died in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WOMEN (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); RELIGION (90%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); NURSES & NURSING (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); CENSUS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) GHANA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (72%); AFRICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



272 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: A Regional Radio Voice Threatened From Afar

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
WHITESBURG, Ky. -- Rich Kirby, a part-time producer for WMMT, the community radio station here, was interviewing two local aid officials the other day about the effect of Washington's proposed budget cuts on this region, in the heart of Appalachia.
''We're in one of the poorest if not the poorest districts in the country,'' Ricky Baker, of the private Community Action Council, which receives 95 percent of its financing from the federal government, said into the microphone. Without that money, he added, ''we'll have people either freeze to death, starve to death or die of a medical condition because they can't get appropriate health care.''
Mr. Kirby refrained from chiming in that his own employer, WMMT, is also imperiled by the same budget ax. As lawmakers seek to cut billions of dollars in federal spending, the Republican-controlled House voted in February to end financing for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting in 2013. While President Obama wants to continue financing the corporation, the current budget turmoil has left its long-term fate uncertain. 
Juxtaposed against other hardships in Appalachia, the beaming of a radio signal might seem a luxury. But WMMT, which reaches across the mountains, coal fields and hollows of eastern Kentucky, southwestern Virginia and southern West Virginia, creates a connective tissue for its far-flung, geographically isolated listeners. It also offers respite from the daily grind. Like the redbud trees that are starting to burst forth in violet patches along the scrubby hillsides here, the sounds from the radio can be, if not essential, at least life-affirming.
''Whew, that young 'un has got a set of pipes on her,'' Andy Shepherd, a former federal marshal who is now a D.J. at the station, told listeners last week as he wrapped up his show with a tune by Ardetta Meade.
Mr. Shepherd and his wife, Cathy (''the Biscuit Burner''), share a three-hour program that features bluegrass, classic country and their own playful patter. Mrs. Shepherd talks off-air to several listeners, many of whom are homebound, just to buck them up.
Mayor James Wiley Craft, a Democrat, noted in an interview that the station also served vital communications functions. It alerted residents recently to an oil spill affecting their drinking water much more quickly than town officials could have.
''If that station were to be shut down for lack of funding, it would really, really hurt this town,'' Mr. Craft said.
Even a competitor has kind words for WMMT.
''They fill a void that commercial stations cannot fill,'' said G. C. Kincer, who once owned several such stations in the area but has downsized to one and who is also mayor of nearby Jenkins. Commercial operators are ruled by their advertisers, he said, while WMMT, not being able to afford listener surveys, goes on its hunches of what people want.
''I listen to them all the time,'' Mr. Kincer said.
The Corporation for Public Broadcasting distributed $420 million last year to 1,300 public television and radio stations across the country. It gave WMMT, which is not affiliated with National Public Radio or a university, $86,000, or one third of the station's $256,000 budget.
Rural radio stations are far more dependent on federal money than their urban counterparts and more likely to go under if it is cut. Nearly two dozen rural stations, many of them on Indian reservations, rely on corporation financing for at least 50 percent of their revenue. (By contrast, grants from the corporation and other federal agencies supply about 2 percent of NPR's overall revenues.)
Rural stations face additional challenges. They need multiple transmitters to reach widely scattered areas. And their listeners are often on fixed incomes, with little or no discretionary money to donate, especially in a down economy.
''This is the worst threat we've ever had because the economic climate is so bad for everything else,'' said Jim Webb, 65, who hosts ''Appalachian Attitude,'' featuring local and regional musicians.
WMMT is one of the few stations that still provide live, home-grown programs, both music and news, around the clock, except for the wee hours, when it repeats its hosts' musical playlists. The station has four full-time and three part-time workers and more than 50 volunteers, many of whom host shows and carry in their own recordings.
The local congressman, Representative Harold Rogers, a Republican first elected in 1980, is chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and in February proposed cutting billions from the budget plus eliminating money for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. In a statement at the time, he said all of the cuts he proposed were ''necessary to show that we are serious about returning our nation to a sustainable financial path.''
Mr. Rogers has been steeped in budget negotiations and was not available for an interview, his spokeswoman said. But in an interview last year with WKMS, an NPR affiliate at Murray State University in western Kentucky, Mr. Rogers said he was proud of the federal money he had long brought to his district, which has relied on federal dollars for decades. It was the destitution of this region that inspired President Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty in the 1960s, when the government expanded its role in social welfare programs.
''The second-poorest district in America,'' Mr. Rogers told WKMS. ''And a district that is terribly needy and has, by and large over the years, been neglected by the state government. So there's no place else for our people to turn.''
But with the rise of the Tea Party and with anti-earmark, budget-cutting fervor gripping the nation's capital, little of that sentiment is being expressed today, especially by Republicans. Advocates of ending financing for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting argue that government spending must be reined in and directed only toward essential services like national security.
Although WMMT broadcasts no NPR programming, which some critics say has a liberal bias, Mayor Craft said the station still had to battle a perception that it was ''anti-coal,'' which is the local equivalent of liberal. He said that perception was wrong.
''Some of the people who are there are associated with other groups'' that oppose mountaintop mining, he said, ''but those people at the station are intelligent enough to know which side of their bread is buttered. This area depends on coal 100 percent.''
In a fund-raising letter for the annual spring drive, Marcie Crim, the station's general manager, did not mention the threat of federal cuts. Rather, she focused on the station's ability to produce its own programming, ''instead of airing shows produced in New York City.''
Ms. Crim said that without the federal financing, the station could go dark, though she worries that such assessments could become self-fulfilling and ''scare people into thinking we might not make it.'' David Fields, the station's director of development, said that the mention of federal money in fund drives ''makes people frown'' and prompts some to harass the station for asking for donations when those people already pay taxes.
Random interviews with people in town found a positive response to WMMT. ''You grow up hearing it and you think just old people are listening to it,'' said Neil Perkins, 30, a radiology technician who was having his hair cut the other day. ''But then you find yourself stopping on the same station.''
Rebecca Winterhoff, 28, who recently moved from Florida because her husband found a job here, said WMMT was a big selling point.
''It's so local,'' she said. ''You get the sense that real people are involved, and it's a community.''
Ms. Winterhoff said she had never donated to public radio because she lived paycheck to paycheck, but she said she intended to start doing so now. Her new station may need it more than ever.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jim Webb in the studio at the public radio station WMMT, where he hosts the show ''Appalachian Attitude,'' which features local and regional musicians.
 Recordings by local musicians lined a wall at the station, which still provides live, home-grown music and news programs. Right, downtown Whitesburg, Ky. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT MCINTYRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: WMMT reaches eastern Kentucky, southwestern Virginia and southern West Virginia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PUBLIC RADIO (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); STARVATION (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); CITIES (65%); OIL SPILLS (50%)

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: JIM WEBB (55%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



273 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Unfettered Money: There is a high cost to the Supreme Court's belief that money is, literally, speech

 BODY:
When the Supreme Court ruled that money equals speech 35 years ago, it was responding to forces of technology and economics reshaping American politics that made it much more expensive to run a campaign. While ruling that public financing and limits on contributions are valid ways to limit donors' undue influence, it struck down candidate, campaign and independent spending limits. 
Now the court's conservative majority is again reshaping politics, ruling that what matters most for money and speech is their ''fair market'' impact. The result will be closer scrutiny of public financing, while enabling even more rampant spending by wealthy candidates.
In the landmark 1976 case of Buckley v. Valeo, the court said that ''virtually every means of communicating ideas in today's mass society requires the expenditure of money,'' so restricting campaign spending meant restricting political speech. The First Amendment required that political speech be unfettered, so the same was required for political spending.
But when the court ruled that money equals speech, it didn't mean, literally, that money is speech. It meant that money enabled speech. A political contribution enabled the symbolic, or indirect, speech of the donor and the actual speech of the candidate -- and may the best speech win. The focus was on enabling the speech, not the money.
That changed in 2008 when the conservative majority struck down a federal rule that had tripled the limit on campaign contributions for a candidate outspent by a rich, self-financed opponent. Justice Samuel Alito Jr. wrote that the rule diminished ''the effectiveness'' of the rich candidate's spending and of his speech.
In oral argument recently, the court's conservatives appeared ready to take their next step in restricting campaign finance reform and to strike down Arizona's public financing mechanism called triggered matching funds. This is one of the most compelling innovations in the country. The state will match for a state-financed candidate what an opponent raises in private contributions up to triple the initial amount of state financing.
To William Maurer, the lawyer opposing the Arizona mechanism, whenever ''a privately financed candidate speaks above a certain amount, the government creates real penalties for them to have engaged in unfettered political expression.'' That ''speaks'' was not a slip, but a reinforcement of the money-equals-speech notion.
The fundamental problem, he said, is ''the government turning my speech into the vehicle by which my entire political message is undercut,'' because the public funds triggered are a penalty that reduces the impact of the privately financed candidate's spending and speech. Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. made clear in the argument that he, too, sees triggered matching public funds as a limit on the privately financed candidate's speech.
That makes no sense. Arizona's mechanism means more candidates -- not just the wealthy -- will be able to run in elections. And that means more political speech, not less. But that view depends on seeing money as enabling speech, not vice versa. Money already has far too much sway everywhere in politics. If the court continues this way, the damage and corruption will be enormous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%)

COMPANY: VALEO SA (56%)

TICKER: FR (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



274 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: College Loans Weigh Heavier On Graduates

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Student loan debt outpaced credit card debt for the first time last year and is likely to top a trillion dollars this year as more students go to college and a growing share borrow money to do so.
While many economists say student debt should be seen in a more favorable light, the rising loan bills nevertheless mean that many graduates will be paying them for a longer time.
''In the coming years, a lot of people will still be paying off their student loans when it's time for their kids to go to college,'' said Mark Kantrowitz, the publisher of FinAid.org and Fastweb.com, who has compiled the estimates of student debt, including federal and private loans.
Two-thirds of bachelor's degree recipients graduated with debt in 2008, compared with less than half in 1993. Last year, graduates who took out loans left college with an average of $24,000 in debt. Default rates are rising, especially among those who attended for-profit colleges. 
The mountain of debt is likely to grow more quickly with the coming round of budget-slashing. Pell grants for low-income students are expected to be cut and tuition at public universities will probably increase as states with pinched budgets cut back on the money they give to colleges.
Some education policy experts say the mounting debt has broad implications for the current generation of students.
''If you have a lot of people finishing or leaving school with a lot of debt, their choices may be very different than the generation before them,'' said Lauren Asher, president of the Institute for College Access and Success. ''Things like buying a home, starting a family, starting a business, saving for their own kids' education may not be options for people who are paying off a lot of student debt.''
In some circles, student debt is known as the anti-dowry. As the transition from adolescence to adulthood is being delayed, with young people taking longer to marry, buy a home and have children, large student loans can slow the process further.
''There's much more awareness about student borrowing than there was 10 years ago,'' Ms. Asher said. ''People either are in debt or know someone in debt.''
To be sure, many economists and policy experts see student debt as a healthy investment -- unlike high-interest credit card debt, which is simply a burden on consumers' budgets and has been declining in recent years. As recently as 2000, student debt, at less than $200 billion, barely registered as a factor in overall household debt. But now, Mr. Kantrowitz said, student loans are going from a microeconomic factor to a macroeconomic factor.
Susan Dynarski, a professor of education and public policy at the University of Michigan, said student debt could generally be seen as a sensible investment in a lifetime of higher earnings. ''When you think about what's good debt and what's bad debt, student loans fall into the realm of good debt, like mortgages,'' Professor Dynarski said. ''It's an investment that pays off over the whole life cycle.''
According to a College Board report issued last fall, median earnings of bachelor's degree recipients working full time year-round in 2008 were $55,700, or $21,900 more than the median earnings of high school graduates. And their unemployment rate was far lower.
So Sandy Baum, a higher education policy analyst and senior fellow at George Washington University, a co-author of the report, said she was not concerned, from a broader perspective, that student debt was growing so fast.
Indeed, some economists worry that all the news about unemployed 20-somethings mired in $100,000 of college debt might discourage some young people from attending college.
A decade ago, student debt did not loom so large on the national agenda. Barack and Michelle Obama helped raise awareness when they spoke in the presidential campaign about how their loan payments after graduating from Harvard Law School were more than their mortgage payments.
''We left school with a mountain of debt,'' Mr. Obama said in 2008. ''Michelle I know had at least $60,000. I had at least $60,000. So when we got together we had a lot of loans to pay. In fact, we did not finish paying them off until probably we'd been married for at least eight years, maybe nine.''
Even then, Mrs. Obama said, it took the royalties from her husband's best-selling books to help pay off their loans.
In 2009, the Obama administration made it easier for low-earning student borrowers to get out of debt, with income-based repayment that forgives remaining federal student debt for those who pay 15 percent of their income for 25 years -- or 10 years, if they work in public service.
But if the Obamas' experience highlights the long payback periods for student debt, their careers also underscore the benefits of a top-flight education.
''College is still a really good deal,'' said Cecilia Rouse, of Princeton, who served on Mr. Obama's Council of Economic Advisers. ''Even if you don't land a plum job, you're still going to earn more over your lifetime, and the vast majority of graduates can expect to cover their debts.''
Even believers in student debt like Ms. Rouse, though, concede that hefty college loans carry extra risks in the current economy.
''I am worried about this cohort of young people, because their unemployment rates are much higher and early job changing is how you get those increases over their lifetime,'' Ms. Rouse said. ''In this economy, it's a lot harder to go from job to job. We know that there's some scarring to cohorts who graduate in bad economies, and this is the mother of bad economies.''
And there is widespread concern about those who borrow heavily for college, then drop out, or take extra years to graduate.
Deanne Loonin, a lawyer at the National Consumer Law Center, said education debt was not good debt for the low-income borrowers she works with, most of whom are in default.
Unlike most other debt, student loans generally cannot be discharged in bankruptcy, and the government can garnish wages or take tax refunds or Social Security payments to recover the money owed.
Students who borrow to attend for-profit colleges are especially likely to default. They make up about 12 percent of those enrolled in higher education, but almost half of those defaulting on student loans. According to the Department of Education, about a quarter of students at for-profit institutions defaulted on their student loans within three years of starting to repay them.
''About two-thirds of the people I see attended for-profits; most did not complete their program; and no one I have worked with has ever gotten a job in the field they were supposedly trained for,'' Ms. Loonin said.
''For them, the negative mark on their credit report is the No. 1 barrier to moving ahead in their lives,'' she added. ''It doesn't just delay their ability to buy a house, it gets in the way of their employment prospects, their finding an apartment, almost anything they try to do.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about the increasing burden of student loan debt misstated the name of an organization whose president, Lauren Asher, described the social consequences of the debt problem. It is the Institute for College Access and Success, not the Institute for Student Access and Success.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Student Loan Debt Continues to Grow: Total outstanding debt, in billions (Source: Fastweb.com) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (94%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); TUITION FEES (79%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); CHILDREN (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); FAMILY (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



275 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Poking Holes in a Green Image

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
Natural gas, with its reputation as a linchpin in the effort to wean the nation off dirtier fossil fuels and reduce global warming, may not be as clean over all as its proponents say.
Even as natural gas production in the United States increases and Washington gives it a warm embrace as a crucial component of America's energy future, two coming studies try to poke holes in the clean-and-green reputation of natural gas. They suggest that the rush to develop the nation's vast, unconventional sources of natural gas is logistically impractical and likely to do more to heat up the planet than mining and burning coal.
The problem, the studies suggest, is that planet-warming methane, the chief component of natural gas, is escaping into the atmosphere in far larger quantities than previously thought, with as much as 7.9 percent of it puffing out from shale gas wells, intentionally vented or flared, or seeping from loose pipe fittings along gas distribution lines. This offsets natural gas's most important advantage as an energy source: it burns cleaner than other fossil fuels and releases lower carbon dioxide emissions. 
''The old dogma of natural gas being better than coal in terms of greenhouse gas emissions gets stated over and over without qualification,'' said Robert Howarth, a professor of ecology and environmental biology at Cornell University and the lead author of one of the studies. Mr. Howarth said his analysis, which looked specifically at methane leakage rates in unconventional shale gas development, was among the first of its kind and that much more research was needed.
''I don't think this is the end of the story,'' said Mr. Howarth, who is an opponent of growing gas development in western New York. ''I think this is just the beginning of the story, and before governments and the industry push ahead on gas development, at the very least we ought to do a better job of making measurements.''
The findings are certain to stir debate. For much of the last decade, the natural gas industry has carefully cultivated a green reputation, often with the help of environmental groups that embrace the resource as a clean-burning ''bridge fuel'' to a renewable energy future. The industry argues that it has vastly reduced the amount of fugitive methane with new technologies and upgraded pipe fittings and other equipment.
Mark D. Whitley, a senior vice president for engineering and technology with Range Resources, a gas drilling company with operations in several regions of the country, said the losses suggested by Mr. Howarth's study were simply too high.
''These are huge numbers,'' he said. ''That the industry would let what amounts to trillions of cubic feet of gas get away from us doesn't make any sense. That's not the business that we're in.''
Natural gas is already the principal source of heat in half of American households. Advocates like the former oil tycoon T. Boone Pickens have also long sought to promote it as a substitute for coal in electricity generation or gasoline in a new generation of natural gas cars. And the development of new ways to tap reserves of natural gas means production is likely to increase sharply.
Two weeks ago, President Obama included natural gas in his vision for America. Clark Stevens, a White House spokesman, said that the administration's energy priorities were not about picking one energy source over another, but about diversifying the nation's energy mix. ''This process will continue to be based on the best science available to ensure our energy sources, including our nation's natural gas reserves, are developed safely and responsibly,'' Mr. Stevens said on Friday.
The ability to pull natural gas economically from previously inaccessible formations deep underground has made huge quantities of the resource available in wide areas of the country, including Texas, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, New York, Wyoming and Colorado.
Such unconventional gas production accounts for nearly a quarter of total production in the United States, according to the latest figures from the Energy Information Administration. That is expected to reach 45 percent by 2035.
But the cleanliness of natural gas is largely based on its lower carbon dioxide emissions when burned. It emits roughly half the amount of carbon dioxide as coal and about 30 percent less than oil.
Less clear, largely because no one has bothered to look, are the emissions over its entire production life cycle -- that is, from the moment a well is plumbed to the point at which the gas is used.
Methane leaks have long been a concern because while methane dissipates in the atmosphere more quickly than carbon dioxide, it is far more efficient at trapping heat. Recent evidence has suggested that the amount of leakage has been underestimated. A report in January by the nonprofit journalism organization ProPublica, for example, noted that the Environmental Protection Agency had recently doubled its estimates for the amount of methane that is vented or lost from natural gas distribution lines.
Chris Tucker, a spokesman for Energy in Depth, a coalition of independent oil and natural gas producers, dismissed Mr. Howarth as an advocate who is opposed to hydraulic-fracturing or ''fracking,'' a practice associated with unconventional gas development involving the high-pressure injection of water, sand and chemicals deep underground to break up shale formations and release gas deposits. Mr. Howarth said his credentials as a scientist spoke for themselves.
Mr. Howarth included methane losses associated with flow-back and drill-out processes in hydraulic fracturing and other unconventional gas drilling techniques.
The study combined these emissions with studies of other methane losses along the processing and distribution cycle to arrive at an estimated total methane loss range from 3.6 to 7.9 percent for the shale gas industry.
The researchers include a recent study from the Goddard Institute for Space Studies at NASA suggesting that an interaction of methane with certain aerosol particles significantly amplifies methane's already potent greenhouse gas effects, particularly over a 20-year time horizon. When all is factored together, Mr. Howarth and his colleagues conclude that the greenhouse gas footprint of shale gas can be as much as 20 percent greater than, and perhaps twice as high as, coal per unit of energy.
David Hughes, a geoscientist and research fellow at the Post Carbon Institute, an energy and climate research organization in California, used Mr. Howarth's research as part of a broader look at natural gas as a substitute for coal in electricity generation and oil in transportation.
Mr. Hughes's full report is scheduled to be released in May, but in a draft version shared with The New York Times, Mr. Hughes suggested that while natural gas would play an important role in the nation's energy mix, both cases were practical impossibilities.
''I think it's going to be very challenging, to put it mildly, to ramp up shale gas production by fourfold, which is the federal government's projection for 2035,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''I'm not saying it can't be done, but if it was done, the amount of drilling you're looking at to make that happen is staggering.''
Mr. Hughes, using Mr. Howarth's calculations, also concludes that replacing coal with natural gas for base load electricity production will most likely make greenhouse gas emissions worse. It would be better, he argues, to improve energy efficiency, rely on natural gas in niche vehicle markets and balance continued construction of wind and solar power to produce electricity.
David Hawkins, the director of climate programs with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that much could be done by regulators to nudge drillers to capture more of the fugitive methane, but that it is often more economical for industry to simply let it escape.
Mr. Hawkins also said that too little was known about just how much methane was being lost and vented, and that studies like Mr. Howarth's, while needed, relied on too slim a data set to be considered the final word.
''This is a huge and growing industry, and we just don't have the information we need to make sure that this resource is being developed as cleanly as it can be,'' Mr. Hawkins said.
''We view his shining a flashlight into this dark closet to be a service,'' Mr. Hawkins added, ''but the flashlight is still a dim one, and we still can't see everything in the closet.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the amount of carbon dioxide produced by burning natural gas, relative to oil. Gas emits about 30 percent less carbon dioxide than oil, not 30 percent as much as oil.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A gas drilling rig in western Pennsylvania. Natural gas is clean-burning, but its production may leak greenhouse gases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
A natural gas pipeline in Colorado. Methane leaks are a concern because methane is efficient at trapping heat in the atmosphere, even though it dissipates quickly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''At the very least we ought to do a better job of making measurements,'' said Robert Howarth, a professor at Cornell. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES LEYNSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); METHANE (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); WRITERS (64%)

COMPANY: RANGE RESOURCES LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%)

TICKER: RRS (ASX) (51%); RRL (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



276 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Leader's Arrest In Ivory Coast Ends Standoff

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER, SCOTT SAYARE and DAN BILEFSKY; Adam Nossiter reported from Abidjan, Ivory Coast; Scott Sayare from Paris; and Dan Bilefsky from the United Nations.

 BODY:
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast -- The strongman of Ivory Coast, Laurent Gbagbo, was captured and taken into custody by his rival on Monday, ending a four-month standoff that left hundreds dead in this once-prosperous West African nation, put international diplomacy to a severe test and ultimately dragged the country back into civil war.
With French helicopters in the skies nearby, Mr. Gbagbo surrendered to his rival's forces as they stormed his residence, sending his chief of staff outside to signal his defeat.
''The fighting is over,'' Mr. Gbagbo said on his rival's television station after his arrest. ''So he went out with a white handkerchief. The fighting is over.'' 
For months, African diplomats and heads of state had shuttled back and forth to Abidjan, pleading with Mr. Gbagbo to step down after losing a presidential election last year. The United Nations, the United States and the European Union demanded his resignation, imposing severe economic sanctions that crippled the economy -- but failed to push Mr. Gbagbo from power.
Instead, it took devastating airstrikes by French and United Nations helicopters to help end Mr. Gbagbo's gamble to defy the international community, fight off his rival, Alassane Ouattara, and extend his 10-year rule.
On Sunday night and into Monday morning, the helicopters hovered near the presidential offices and the palatial residence where Mr. Gbagbo had been holed up with his wife underground for days, firing missile blasts that were officially aimed at destroying the heavy weapons outside, but also reduced parts of Mr. Gbagbo's last redoubts to smoking rubble.
United Nations and French officials, wary of being seen as exceeding their mandate by enforcing regime change, insisted that their actions were solely intended to protect civilians, entirely independent of the final push to capture Mr. Gbagbo by his rival's forces.
''There was not one single French soldier in the residence,'' said Cmdr. Frederic Daguillon, a French military spokesman in Abidjan.
But they readily acknowledged that the international strikes had broken Mr. Gbagbo's defenses, leaving him open to capture.
Alain Le Roy, head of the United Nations peacekeeping operations, said the strike on Mr. Gbagbo's heavy weapons may have helped clear the way for his rivals to storm the residence. But he stressed that there had been no coordination between United Nations forces and those of Mr. Ouattara and that the United Nations' aim had been wholly geared toward protecting civilians.
Similarly, a French military spokesman, Thierry Burkhard, said Mr. Gbagbo's enemies had ''taken advantage'' of the French and United Nations attacks to launch their own.
''He was really weakened by the strikes,'' said Hamadoun Toure, a spokesman for the United Nations operation in Ivory Coast.
President Obama commended the French and the United Nations, saying Mr. Gbagbo's ''illegitimate claim to power has finally come to an end.'' The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, called the arrest ''the end of a chapter that should never have been.''
But the arrest did not spell the end of the crisis, analysts warned. The airstrikes by France and the United Nations were expected to infuriate the many Gbagbo supporters who have embraced his anti-Western fervor. Even though Mr. Ouattara is recognized internationally as the winner of last year's election, Gbagbo supporters may now have even more reason to see him as illegitimate, forced upon them by outside intervention.
Mr. Ouattara's standing overseas will be also be tested by accusations that forces loyal to him killed hundreds of civilians as they swept across the country, weakening his reputation as the one with the higher moral ground in the standoff.
''Our country has just turned a painful page of its history,'' Mr. Ouattara said in a televised address Monday night. He insisted that Mr. Gbagbo's safety was being guaranteed, but announced that he would request that judicial proceedings be opened against Mr. Gbagbo, his wife and ''all those who have been apprehended.'' They will receive ''dignified treatment,'' and their rights will be respected, he vowed.
''I therefore call upon all my compatriots who might be seized by a feeling of vengeance to abstain from any act of reprisal or violence,'' Mr. Ouattara said.
After his arrest, Mr. Gbagbo was taken with his wife to the Golf Hotel, the shabby lagoon-side resort where he had blockaded Mr. Ouattara for four months. In another strange reversal, Mr. Le Roy said that Mr. Gbagbo and his wife, Simone, were now being guarded by the same United Nations officials who had previously been protecting Mr. Ouattara.
Images broadcast on Ivorian television showed a sweating, plaintive Mr. Gbagbo after his arrest. At one point, he appeared in a white tank-top undershirt, wiping dry his face and underarms with a towel as men dressed in camouflage looked on, smiling.
In parts of Abidjan the reaction was subdued. Few were out after days of urban warfare that had kept the city's residential areas in lockdown and provoked a serious humanitarian crisis. Water and food are lacking. Sporadic bursts of gunfire could still be heard, and both Mr. Ouattara's government and the United Nations said a top priority was disarming the thousands of militant youths given weapons by Mr. Gbagbo. Bodies still spilled out of bombed-out vehicles on the city's eerily deserted highways.
''We are going out a little bit, taking advantage of this little wind of liberty,'' said Latif Ganiyou, a resident of Cocody, where the climactic battle for Mr. Gbagbo's residence took place. ''We're breathing a little again. The fear is gone, and we are relieved.''
In the Abobo district, though, where Mr. Gbagbo focused his bloody campaign of armed repression against Ouattara supporters, there was jubilation. For weeks the neighborhood lived in terror of the descents of Mr. Gbagbo's troops, ride-throughs in which guns crackled and citizens fell dead in the dusty streets.
''In Abobo, people are dancing and singing,'' said a resident, Ahmed Fofana. ''It's like a holiday, really a great holiday. Everybody is out. I'm so happy, I hardly know how to express my joy.''
In his speech Monday night, Mr. Ouattara, subdued after months of fear and uncertainty, promised a new beginning for the country.
''Today a white page opens in front of us, white like the white of our flag, symbol of hope and peace,'' Mr. Ouattara said in his flat, precise voice. He called for ''reconciliation and forgiveness.''
His rough-looking soldiers in knitted caps, former rebels from the 2002 uprising that split the country, chanted victory songs softly on the grounds of the hotel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laurent Gbagbo and his wife, Simone, were guarded by United Nations security officials at the Golf Hotel in Abidjan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 Some residents celebrated the surrender and arrest of Laurent Gbagbo in Abidjan. But in parts of the city the reaction was subdued after days of urban warfare. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA BLACKWELL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); HELICOPTERS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ELECTIONS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COTE D'IVOIRE (99%); FRANCE (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



277 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Diving in Search Of the 'Great Vampire Squid'

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
MONEY AND POWER
How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World
By William D. Cohan
Doubleday. 658 pages. $30.50.
In his 2009 Rolling Stone article about Goldman Sachs, Matt Taibbi called the firm ''a great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money.'' Say what you will about that description, but it does express a clear point of view. The same cannot be said for William D. Cohan's ''Money and Power,'' which invokes the ''vampire squid'' line twice but has no comparably bold attitude of its own.
Mr. Cohan, whose title signifies nothing more fine-tuned than ''The Goldman Sachs Story,'' even puts the squid on his opening page. He juxtaposes it with his own calmer version of the same idea: that Goldman Sachs is ''a symbol of immutable global power and unparalleled connections, which Goldman is shameless in exploiting for its own benefit, with little concern for how its success affects the rest of us.'' But that hint of combativeness is misleading. Most of his long, carelessly shaped, jargon-filled book is far more conciliatory than that. 
In the wake of his tightly constructed ''House of Cards,'' about the collapse of Bear Stearns, Mr. Cohan (who is a regular contributor to the Opinionator blog of The New York Times) has taken on a much broader and more daunting subject. However much enthusiasm he brought to the task, he does not inspire optimism by writing in an author's note that he and his editor deemed Goldman Sachs ''the next mountain we needed to climb.''
What a big mountain it is. The span of ''Money and Power'' extends from the firm's founding in 1869 to the April 2010 hearing of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, at which an angry Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, presided, and browbeaten Goldman Sachs executives were the main attraction. Most of this terrain has been traveled by others, whose books are abundantly cited in Mr. Cohan's ''ibid.''-filled endnotes.
He draws on sources from Stephen Birmingham's 1967 ''Our Crowd: the Great Jewish Families of New York City,'' to John Kenneth Galbraith's ''Great Crash, 1929,'' from 1954, to Charles Ellis's thorough, elegant and much better-explicated 2008 Goldman Sachs history, ''The Partnership.'' Mr. Cohan's most important material is that which extends beyond Mr. Ellis's and documents the firm's recent history. This is uncharted territory, thanks to the proliferation of opaque mortgage-backed securities, the decline of corporate accountability, the damage inflicted by the Great Recession (though not to Goldman Sachs) and the existence of embarrassingly candid e-mail. There are Goldman Sachs staff members who write ''$$$'' when they mean money. That's not even the embarrassing part.
Mr. Cohan, who received the 2007 FT/Goldman Sachs Business Book of the Year Award, was able to interview many of the firm's recent leaders, most notably Lloyd Blankfein, its current chief executive and chairman. Mr. Blankfein talks about himself humorously and well. But the book digs up minutiae like Mr. Blankfein's ability to sing sitcom theme songs from the 1970s and a rabbi's comment that Mr. Blankfein ''was brilliant as a 12-year-old boy.''
Despite this level of detail, ''Money and Power'' remains relatively impersonal about the people it profiles, even when Mr. Cohan has interviewed the participants in bitter he said/he said Goldman Sachs disputes. (Jon Corzine versus Henry Paulson is the book's most heated bout.) Its many thumbnail biographies tend to concentrate on educational background and favorite sports.
Interviewees range from Mr. Paulson, who is said to have a ''heavily book-filled'' office, to Robert Freeman, who speaks angrily about the insider trading scandal in which he was embroiled and vehemently accuses the writer James B. Stewart of unfair reporting in The Wall Street Journal. (''I think he's absolutely dishonest,'' Mr. Freeman says.) But this book does its hardest hitting when the interviewees are allowed to remain anonymous. Their candor is conspicuously different from the schmoozy yet careful information provided by those with clear Goldman Sachs connections.
About Goldman Sachs's present-day business practices, one ''private equity investor'' says this: ''They view information gathered from their client businesses as free for them to trade on ... it's as simple as that. If they are in a client situation, working on a deal, and they're learning everything there is to know about that business, they take all that information, pass it up through their organization, and use that information to trade against the client, against other clients, et cetera, et cetera.'' The speaker stops short of labeling this as insider trading, but only barely, saying, ''I don't understand how that's legal.''
Mr. Cohan raises the same question as he writes that the firm's onetime dedication to its clients has evolved into something more ruthlessly self-serving. ''Its primary source of profit has shifted from banking to trading,'' he writes, ''and the firm is intentionally quite vague about how, and precisely where, those trades are made or, equally relevant, from whom the profits are coming.'' When ''Money and Power'' can boil down its arguments that clearly, it has welcome moments of toughness and precision.
But the explication of intricate financial and legal issues is an art form not easily mastered. Mr. Cohan has done a better job of reporting and gathering information than he has of relaying it to the reader. Over the span of 600 pages, ''Money and Power'' includes an exhausting load of reasonable but clumsy observations like this, about the refinancing of mortgages by homeowners when interest rates fell in 1985 and 1986:
''This caused Goldman's portfolio of mortgage-backed securities, which contained mortgages with higher interest rates, to be paid off early (through refinancings) and to lose value rather than increase in value as would be expected when interest rates fell, since the value of a bond with a higher interest rate increases when relative interest rates fall.''
There's a better way to say this. And there is a better raison d'etre for a new Goldman Sachs book than this one provides. Here are three central questions: ''Why is Goldman Sachs so very powerful on so many dimensions? How did the firm achieve its present leadership and acknowledged excellence? Will Goldman Sachs continue to excel?''
Those were asked in 2008, by Mr. Ellis. Their meaning has changed startlingly over the last three years. Somewhere within ''Money and Power'' there should be new answers.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this review misstated the middle initial of a noted financial journalist referenced in the book. He is James B. Stewart, not James W.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 William D. Cohan (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM D. COHAN/DGF) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Money and Power (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



278 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: British Bank Panel Suggests Ways to Limit Consumer Risk

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON - British banks should hold more capital and better shield individual customers from losses in other parts of their business, a government-backed commission said on Monday.
The proposals stopped short of any significant new regulations, like requiring a full split of retail and investment banking, which some banks had feared.
Instead, the commission said retail units, which take consumer deposits, should be isolated for protection, or ring-fenced, to allow them to survive even if other parts of the banks need to be wound down. 
Shares in British banks were mixed in London on Monday, with Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland rising and HSBC falling.
''The report has been extremely generous to the banks,'' said Roger Nightingale, a strategic adviser to hedge funds and institutional investors in London.
The proposals, by the Independent Commission on Banking, go further than recent changes in the United States in trying to separate more clearly the traditional deposit-taking services from the riskier but more lucrative trading operations.
The commission also said larger banks, like Barclays, should hold at least 10 percent of equity related to risk-weighted assets, more than the 7 percent detailed in the so-called Basel III agreement to overhaul international bank regulation.
But the commission also said that because investment banks operate globally, British banks should not be subject to different capital rules than those agreed to internationally.
The proposed ring-fencing of the retail business means that banks with both retail and investment banking units, including Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland, would have to finance the two businesses separately and not move capital from one area to the other.
The proposed changes would increase a bank's financing costs, the commission said, but not as much as a complete split of retail and investment banking. And any costs would be more than offset by the benefit of ''materially reducing the probability and impact of financial crises,'' the report said.
Simon Gleeson, a partner at the law firm Clifford Chance, in London, said the proposed changes could prompt banks to take on more rather than less risk, or to raise prices for retail customers as the cost of doing business increases. ''All of this would make the operating of retail banks more expensive,'' he said.
The proposals are part of an interim report and are not definitive. But they were seen as Britain's most important response to the banking crisis, which has left two of the country's largest banks in government hands. Before the release of the report, Barclays and HSBC had threatened to move their headquarters abroad should new rules be too punishing, which they argued would leave them at a disadvantage to rivals elsewhere.
John Vickers, who heads the commission, rejected claims that the commission bowed to bank pressures. ''These are absolutely far-reaching reforms,'' Mr. Vickers said at a news conference in London. ''They could be absolutely transformative.''
The commission, which includes former banking executives, was set up by the government in June to suggest ways to improve stability and competition in Britain's banking industry after the financial crisis. The Treasury is expected to receive a final report in September.
George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, welcomed the interim report as a ''very, very good piece of work.''
Under the proposals, any retail banking operations would have to be run as a subsidiary of the larger banking group. The subsidiary would have to stick to its own capital ratios, but any capital above that could be moved from the retail banking business to other activities in the wider group. The banking group would also be able to continue selling financial products across its units, for example offering investment banking advice to retail banking clients.
''It would help shield U.K. retail activities from risks arising elsewhere within the bank or wider system,'' the report said. ''It could curtail taxpayer exposure and thereby sharpen commercial disciplines on risk taking.''
The commission said its recommendations sought a middle ground between the radical step of separating retail and investment banking and simply relying on higher capital requirements to increase the stability of banks.
In the event of the collapse of a bank, the commission suggests that claims of depositors should be ranked higher than those of unsecured creditors. ''It's amazing how so many senior debt holders came out whole'' from the banking crisis, Mr. Vickers said.
The commission also recommended making it easier and less expensive for customers to switch between British retail banks as a way to increase competition.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); RETAIL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); RETAILERS (77%); BANK FAILURES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (66%); LAWYERS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (92%); BARCLAYS PLC (92%); CLIFFORD CHANCE LLP (56%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (92%); RBS (LSE) (92%); RBS (AMS) (92%); BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



279 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Diving in Search Of the 'Great Vampire Squid'

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
MONEY AND POWER
How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World
By William D. Cohan
Doubleday. 658 pages. $30.50.
In his 2009 Rolling Stone article about Goldman Sachs, Matt Taibbi called the firm ''a great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money.'' Say what you will about that description, but it does express a clear point of view. The same cannot be said for William D. Cohan's ''Money and Power,'' which invokes the ''vampire squid'' line twice but has no comparably bold attitude of its own.
Mr. Cohan, whose title signifies nothing more fine-tuned than ''The Goldman Sachs Story,'' even puts the squid on his opening page. He juxtaposes it with his own calmer version of the same idea: that Goldman Sachs is ''a symbol of immutable global power and unparalleled connections, which Goldman is shameless in exploiting for its own benefit, with little concern for how its success affects the rest of us.'' But that hint of combativeness is misleading. Most of his long, carelessly shaped, jargon-filled book is far more conciliatory than that. 
In the wake of his tightly constructed ''House of Cards,'' about the collapse of Bear Stearns, Mr. Cohan (who is a regular contributor to the Opinionator blog of The New York Times) has taken on a much broader and more daunting subject. However much enthusiasm he brought to the task, he does not inspire optimism by writing in an author's note that he and his editor deemed Goldman Sachs ''the next mountain we needed to climb.''
What a big mountain it is. The span of ''Money and Power'' extends from the firm's founding in 1869 to the April 2010 hearing of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, at which an angry Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, presided, and browbeaten Goldman Sachs executives were the main attraction. Most of this terrain has been traveled by others, whose books are abundantly cited in Mr. Cohan's ''ibid.''-filled endnotes.
He draws on sources from Stephen Birmingham's 1967 ''Our Crowd: the Great Jewish Families of New York City,'' to John Kenneth Galbraith's ''Great Crash, 1929,'' from 1954, to Charles Ellis's thorough, elegant and much better-explicated 2008 Goldman Sachs history, ''The Partnership.'' Mr. Cohan's most important material is that which extends beyond Mr. Ellis's and documents the firm's recent history. This is uncharted territory, thanks to the proliferation of opaque mortgage-backed securities, the decline of corporate accountability, the damage inflicted by the Great Recession (though not to Goldman Sachs) and the existence of embarrassingly candid e-mail. There are Goldman Sachs staff members who write ''$$$'' when they mean money. That's not even the embarrassing part.
Mr. Cohan, who received the 2007 FT/Goldman Sachs Business Book of the Year Award, was able to interview many of the firm's recent leaders, most notably Lloyd Blankfein, its current chief executive and chairman. Mr. Blankfein talks about himself humorously and well. But the book digs up minutiae like Mr. Blankfein's ability to sing sitcom theme songs from the 1970s and a rabbi's comment that Mr. Blankfein ''was brilliant as a 12-year-old boy.''
Despite this level of detail, ''Money and Power'' remains relatively impersonal about the people it profiles, even when Mr. Cohan has interviewed the participants in bitter he said/he said Goldman Sachs disputes. (Jon Corzine versus Henry Paulson is the book's most heated bout.) Its many thumbnail biographies tend to concentrate on educational background and favorite sports.
Interviewees range from Mr. Paulson, who is said to have a ''heavily book-filled'' office, to Robert Freeman, who speaks angrily about the insider trading scandal in which he was embroiled and vehemently accuses the writer James B. Stewart of unfair reporting in The Wall Street Journal. (''I think he's absolutely dishonest,'' Mr. Freeman says.) But this book does its hardest hitting when the interviewees are allowed to remain anonymous. Their candor is conspicuously different from the schmoozy yet careful information provided by those with clear Goldman Sachs connections.
About Goldman Sachs's present-day business practices, one ''private equity investor'' says this: ''They view information gathered from their client businesses as free for them to trade on ... it's as simple as that. If they are in a client situation, working on a deal, and they're learning everything there is to know about that business, they take all that information, pass it up through their organization, and use that information to trade against the client, against other clients, et cetera, et cetera.'' The speaker stops short of labeling this as insider trading, but only barely, saying, ''I don't understand how that's legal.''
Mr. Cohan raises the same question as he writes that the firm's onetime dedication to its clients has evolved into something more ruthlessly self-serving. ''Its primary source of profit has shifted from banking to trading,'' he writes, ''and the firm is intentionally quite vague about how, and precisely where, those trades are made or, equally relevant, from whom the profits are coming.'' When ''Money and Power'' can boil down its arguments that clearly, it has welcome moments of toughness and precision.
But the explication of intricate financial and legal issues is an art form not easily mastered. Mr. Cohan has done a better job of reporting and gathering information than he has of relaying it to the reader. Over the span of 600 pages, ''Money and Power'' includes an exhausting load of reasonable but clumsy observations like this, about the refinancing of mortgages by homeowners when interest rates fell in 1985 and 1986:
''This caused Goldman's portfolio of mortgage-backed securities, which contained mortgages with higher interest rates, to be paid off early (through refinancings) and to lose value rather than increase in value as would be expected when interest rates fell, since the value of a bond with a higher interest rate increases when relative interest rates fall.''
There's a better way to say this. And there is a better raison d'etre for a new Goldman Sachs book than this one provides. Here are three central questions: ''Why is Goldman Sachs so very powerful on so many dimensions? How did the firm achieve its present leadership and acknowledged excellence? Will Goldman Sachs continue to excel?''
Those were asked in 2008, by Mr. Ellis. Their meaning has changed startlingly over the last three years. Somewhere within ''Money and Power'' there should be new answers.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
The Books of The Times review on April 12 about ''Money
and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,'' by William D. Cohan, misstated the middle initial of a noted financial journalist referenced in the book. He is James B. Stewart, not James W.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 William D. Cohan (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM D. COHAN/DGF) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Money and Power (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



280 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Obama, the G.O.P. and the Budget Cuts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The President Is Missing'' (column, April 11), Paul Krugman said that, arguably, all President Obama has left to counter his political opponents is the bully pulpit. But what a powerful pulpit it is for a determined president, such as Teddy Roosevelt, to use.
Rather than make statements that, as Mr. Krugman said, ''reinforce his enemies' narrative'' on deficit reduction, the president should take a stand with the preponderance of American economists against the popular wisdom that large spending cuts must be made immediately. Those economists say that, although the debt must be reduced in the long term, making drastic cuts now will hold back the recovery and put many more people out of work. What is needed in the short term is added stimulus to promote job growth. 
Taking such a stand against the conservative tide would take courage. But it would mark President Obama as a man who has developed a strong economic policy of his own, a man eager to use his bully pulpit to promote that policy and explain to the voters why it is right.
JOHN WICKLEIN Exeter, N.H., April 11, 2011
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman's column about President Obama's caving in to Republicans on budget cuts does not go far enough, though it is accurate in depicting Mr. Obama as missing a chance to distinguish himself as a man of the people. The House budget proposal presented by Representative Paul D. Ryan last week would largely privatize Medicare and make major cuts to Medicaid, while at the same time cutting taxes for corporations and the wealthy.
It is clear, as Mr. Krugman says, that this could be a great political opportunity for leadership. But President Obama, concerned only about winning back independents, races up the steps of the Lincoln Memorial to tout Friday's last-minute budget deal to keep the government from shutting down.
Our president is not just missing -- he has gone over to the other side.
STEPHEN F. DESMOND Smithfield, R.I., April 11, 2011
To the Editor:
Nicholas D. Kristof (''Why Pay Congress?,'' column, April 7) succinctly summarizes mainstream economic theory about deficits, recessions and priorities. First, spend and borrow your way out of a recession, even if it deepens the deficit, and only then tackle the structural basis of long-term deficits.
But House Republicans persist in seeking mammoth immediate budget cuts, repeating, as Mr. Kristof warns, the mistakes of Herbert Hoover that led to the Great Depression, and, more recently, of Japan's leaders in the 1990s, which led to that nation's ''lost decade.''
And on Friday, after the last-minute budget deal, Speaker John A. Boehner said Republicans fought ''to keep government spending down because it really will in fact help create a better environment for job creators in our country.''
There is no way that can be true; it is utter economic nonsense. But House Republicans keep repeating things that just aren't so, as if repetition would make what is wrong acceptable. They are wrong on economic theory, wrong on what creates jobs, wrong to ignore history, wrong not to include revenue increases (we are one of the most lightly taxed advanced nations in the world, which is assuredly a large part of our problems), and wrong to hurt so many people as their policies, if enacted, undoubtedly would.
BASIL J. WHITING Brooklyn, April 9, 2011
To the Editor:
Many of today's most fervent deficit hawks discovered their concerns about a deficit crisis only after the election of President Obama. In fact, during the Bush administration many of them, including Representative Paul D. Ryan and Speaker John A. Boehner, supported major contributors to the deficit, including tax cuts during two wars, the 2006 Medicare drug benefit and the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
When Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill warned of a growing deficit in 2002, and Dick Cheney responded that ''Reagan proved that deficits don't matter,'' I don't recall that any of these gentlemen saw fit to challenge him.
ROBERT DINSMORE Charlestown, Mass., April 8, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''Budgeting for Opportunity,'' by Ross Douthat (column, April 11): How could people really concerned with upward mobility and a general economic prosperity seriously pursue these ends by lowering marginal tax rates? It can't be done. The Bush years proved that.
By proposing what amounts to a continuation of the Bush policies, Representative Paul D. Ryan and other Republican leaders prove that they aren't really interested in general prosperity and upward mobility. The modern G.O.P. believes that the current distribution of property and opportunity is basically fair. It believes that, in essence, egalitarian measures by government entail theft.
Its anti-unionism implies that even government's concern for equal bargaining power entails theft, for management's unequal bargaining power represents property fairly earned. The modern G.O.P. is a Social Darwinist party. It's time to face that fact and open an honest debate on its merits.
SOTIRIOS A. BARBER Chicago, April 11, 2011
The writer is a professor of political science at the University of Notre Dame.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GREG MABLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); PRIVATIZATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (65%); MEDICARE (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICAID (50%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



281 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Leader Blames West

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Rod Nordland contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- As a delegation of Afghan officials traveled to Washington to present their plan to international financial authorities to dismantle Afghanistan's largest private bank, President Hamid Karzai on Monday denounced Western accounting firms and advisers for corruption and failing to detect the bank's troubles.
At a news conference, Mr. Karzai, while reassuring the public that their deposits in Kabul Bank were safe, said that foreign firms should be prosecuted along with those shareholders who took illegal loans and did not repay them. 
''International organizations and foreign entities, who have been recruited and paid hundreds of millions of dollars of Afghanistan's money to improve Afghanistan's banking system, perform strong audits, and improve and build capacity for us, have not done their job,'' Mr. Karzai said.
''They provided the Central Bank with inaccurate information, they deceived Afghanistan's government and its economic and financial regulatory bodies,'' he said.
Three firms were mentioned specifically: Pricewaterhouse Coopers, Deloitte and Bearing Point. An affiliate of the first performed an audit on the bank three months before its troubles began to come to light and pronounced its finances sound. Deloitte and BearingPoint had a contract from the United States Agency for International Development to advise the Central Bank and help build the capacity of the banking system.
Afghan officials are expected to present a plan to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank this week that would, in essence, put Kabul Bank into receivership, separating its viable parts from the nonviable parts and allowing the Central Bank to recoup some losses by selling off assets from borrowers who have not paid back their loans. In the meantime, they would look for a buyer for the working parts of the institution, like its distribution network for government salaries.
The government has been under intense pressure from the I.M.F. to put Kabul Bank into receivership, prosecute wrongdoers and strengthen the enforcement of banking regulations. The fund suspended Afghanistan's program last fall, which halted the flow of about $70 million from international donors. The resolution of the Kabul bank crisis is expected to result in a renewal of the program.
While Mr. Karzai's comments appeared aimed in part at preparing the Afghan public for the expected announcement of the bank's dismantling, the speech also sounded a theme that has become increasingly frequent in his public comments -- that Western interests, and particularly American interests, had harmed Afghanistan. At one point in the news conference, Mr. Karzai noted that ''the most prestigious American audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers'' had given the bank and by extension, the Afghan government, a clean bill of health just before its troubles burst into public view.
While there are suspicions by Western officials that PricewaterhouseCoopers was bribed to whitewash the bank's financial situation, those offering the payoffs were almost certainly some of the bank's shareholders, all of whom are Afghans. ''When are the Afghans going to take responsibility?'' said a frustrated Western official, who asked not to be named because of the sensitivity of the subject. ''There's been a reluctance to accept blame by everyone in the Afghan government,'' the official said.
Western officials often express their frustration in private but rarely in public, where the prevailing view appears to be that ''we have to live with the Afghan government we've got,'' as one American official said.
However, a European diplomat warned that Mr. Karzai's bashing was a ''dangerous game'' because, especially in Europe, there is little support for the war in Afghanistan and taxpayers could quickly turn against it. ''The appetite of the taxpayers and the governments are going to be very little, especially since this appetite is not getting good news from the theater,'' the diplomat said.
It was at least the fourth time in the last couple of months that Mr. Karzai had disparaged the Western countries that keep Afghanistan afloat by spending billions of dollars on the country and risking soldiers' lives to fight the insurgency.
Among Mr. Karzai's most striking recent statements was one during an emotional public appearance after civilians were apparently killed in Kunar Province, when Mr. Karzai appeared to say that NATO troops should cease military operations in Afghanistan. He later clarified his remarks to say he only meant in operations where there were civilian casualties.
In a speech in early February, he compared NATO's civilian Provincial Reconstruction Teams to plumbers that should leave when they finished making their repairs. Privately, his government has asked the United Nations to reduce its number of offices and narrow its mission.
Mr. Karzai also said Monday that the Afghan government was studying the options for a strategic partnership agreement with the United States and that in three months he would convene a jirga -- a meeting of elders -- to discuss the terms Afghans wanted for the agreement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hamid Karzai said Western firms should be prosecuted for misleading his government about Kabul Bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MASSOUD HOSSAINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); AUDITS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANKING LAW (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (85%); BEARINGPOINT INC (70%); DELOITTE LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (85%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (70%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



282 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cuts Raise Doubt On Course Of Recovery

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The budget deal struck last week amounts to a bet by the Obama administration that the loss of $38 billion in federal spending will not be the straw that breaks the back of a fragile economic recovery.
Economic conditions can determine the outcome of elections, and growth remains tepid and tentative just 18 months before voters decide if the president gets a second term. 
The proposed federal spending cuts, which were decided late Friday, do not amount to much by themselves, about 0.25 percent of annual domestic activity. But they join a growing list of minor problems impeding growth, economists said, including higher fuel prices and bad weather, Europe's creeping malaise and the effect of the Japanese earthquake.
The impact of those problems, combined with growing cuts in spending by federal, state and local governments, has led some experts who had forecast that the economy would expand by more than 4 percent in 2011 to retreat toward a 3 percent growth rate. And it raises the question of how many more small cuts the president can afford.
Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial, a Chicago investment firm, said she had cut her forecast for 2011 to 3.3 percent, from 4.2 percent. And if growth falls below 3 percent, she said, ''You're just running on a treadmill. You're not getting anywhere.''
There are reasons for optimism. The Federal Reserve and private forecasters say that the economy's vital signs are getting steadily stronger. Factories are expanding production; people are buying more cars. Leading forecasters like the firm Macroeconomic Advisors of St. Louis to predict that growth will accelerate after the first quarter.
Moreover, supporters of the cuts say that reduced government spending will stimulate economic growth, not damp it -- and that the president could be among the political beneficiaries.
As the government spends less it borrows less, and companies can borrow more. As the government collects less money in taxes, companies may increase spending and investment.
''This cut combined with other cuts in entitlement reform will give the economy and businesses and investors some positive news on the fiscal front in Washington,'' said Chris Edwards, director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank that favors even larger reductions in the federal spending.
There is also the potential that the budget deal will serve as a precedent for a broader deal on long-term spending. Economists say that such a deal would have immediate economic benefits, soothing the nerves of foreign investors who may be fretting about the government's ability to confront its problems.
''I think the cuts are perfectly digestible in the context of the current expansion,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics. ''And if out of this process it appears that we've made a good step toward fiscal discipline and laid out a mechanism for the main event, then it could be a plus.''
Mr. Zandi warned this year that a Republican plan for about $60 billion in cuts would do significant damage to the economy. He said that his views had moderated not just because the parties agreed to make smaller cuts, but because of recent declines in unemployment, to 8.8 percent in March, and 12 consecutive months of private sector job growth.
But the International Monetary Fund took a bleaker view Monday, predicting that the American economy would expand by a lackluster 2.8 percent in 2011, and a barely better 2.9 percent in 2012.
The I.M.F., which provides financing to governments, said in its annual report on the world's economic outlook that the United States was at risk of cutting government spending too quickly.
It said that the cuts proposed by the Obama administration for 2012 and 2013 ''will be challenging to implement, especially in an environment of weak growth and unemployment.'' Cuts should be made more gradually, it said.
The report also said the United States needs to increase exports and that, in turn, depended on the willingness of other nations to let their currencies float freely.
''It has to come from exports for the United States to be able to sustain growth,'' said Olivier Blanchard, one of the authors of the report. ''Something needs to happen in the rest of the world, and it is not happening, or it is not happening fast enough.''
The I.M.F. warned that the world economy was growing on an unsustainable basis because developed nations were borrowing too much and developing nations were relying on exports paid for with that borrowed money, rather than taking steps to build sustainable domestic consumption.
''We are warning the emerging market countries that they may be getting to the point where things are too good,'' Mr. Blanchard said.
The Obama administration has made increasing exports a central tenet of its economic strategy, and it has pushed for efforts by the I.M.F. and other international bodies to loosen the monetary policies of nations like China.
Natalie Wyeth, a Treasury Department spokeswoman, said the administration also was committed to reducing the federal debt.
''We will meet our commitments to the G-20 in Toronto and look forward to working with Congress to establish a credible, multiyear path to ensure our fiscal sustainability while delivering strong economic growth,'' Ms. Wyeth said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); POLITICS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



283 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Romney Declares Candidacy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, quietly made his presidential ambitions official Monday by forming an exploratory committee to run for president in 2012 and declaring in a video that ''it is time that we put America back on a course of greatness.''
Mr. Romney, a top contender in the 2008 presidential campaign, has so far been content to remain largely quiet while other Republicans seek the media spotlight. At this stage, Mr. Romney tops most polls as the Republican front-runner and his advisers saw little need to compete for the boost in name recognition that comes with an early declaration. 
But the pressures of fund-raising are likely to be even greater this time around, with President Obama expected to raise as much as $1 billion for his reelection campaign. Every day that Mr. Romney waited to declare his intentions was a day that he could not raise any money for his bid.
That ends now. With a new Web site -- www.mittromney.com - and an official registration with the Federal Election Commission, Mr. Romney will now be able to tap his donors for money that he can use to once again seek the Republican nomination.
''From my vantage point in business and in government, I have become convinced that America has been put on a dangerous course by Washington politicians, and it has become even worse during the last two years,'' Mr. Romney said in the video. ''But I am also convinced that with able leadership, America's best days are still ahead.''
With his official entry into the race, Mr. Romney is hoping to do in the 2012 race what he was unable to do in 2008. And he appears to be embarking on a very different strategy.
In 2007, Mr. Romney used his own personal wealth and millions from his donors to blanket Iowa and New Hampshire with television ads in the hopes of establishing himself in both of the states with early presidential contest. In the end, he won neither state and watched as Senator John McCain of Arizona recovered from early stumbles to capture the nomination.
This time, Mr. Romney has barely been visible. He has not run any television commercials in the early states. And his entry into the race was done with almost no fanfare - an e-mail message to supporters in the early afternoon.
In the video, Mr. Romney uses a baseball diamond as the backdrop after meeting with students at the University of New Hampshire. The video stands in sharp contrast to Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, who launched his bid with a snazzy, fast-paced video with thunderous music and plenty of American flags.
Mr. Romney, by contrast, speaks directly to the camera, spending most of his time focused on the economic challenges the country faces.
''How has this happened in the nation that leads the world in innovation and productivity?'' Mr. Romney asks. ''The answer is that President Obama's policies have failed. He and virtually all the people around him have never worked in the real economy. They just don't know how jobs are created in the private sector.''
The former Massachusetts governor does not mention health care - perhaps his biggest political vulnerability as a Republican candidate - in the video, which appears a day before the fifth anniversary of Mr. Romney signed into law a health care overhaul in his state that many view as the precursor to Mr. Obama's own controversial legislation.
Mr. Romney's Republican rivals have criticized his health care legislation and Democrats have pounced, too, heaping praise on the Romney legislation because they know it won't help him in the Republican primary.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney greeting a voter early this month in Las Vegas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE JACOBSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); WEB SITES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



284 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: When Hard Times Led to a Boom

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: In a new book, the economist Alexander Field argues that the terrible years of the Great Depression actually set the stage for the post-World War II boom.

 BODY:
Alexander J. Field, an economist at Santa Clara University, is the author of "A Great Leap Forward," which argues that the terrible years of the Great Depression actually set the stage for the post-World War II boom. Mr. Field discussed his ideas at a recent book-signing party. The book will be officially released next week.
Our conversation follows.
Mr. Field: In 1941, the U.S. economy produced almost 40 percent more output than it had in 1929, with virtually no increase in labor hours or private-sector capital input. Almost all of the increase in output per hour is attributable to technological and organizational advance. As I said in the title of my 2003 American Economic Review article, the 1930s were indeed the most technologically progressive decade of the century.
The conventional wisdom is that the war somehow magically transformed the doom and gloom of the Depression into the U.S. standing like a colossus astride the world in 1948. My counterargument is that potential output expanded by leaps and bounds between 1929 and 1941, and it was this expansion in capacity that both helped us win the war and established the foundations for postwar prosperity.
Mr. Field: There was a very strong recovery following Roosevelt's election, interrupted only temporarily by the 1937 recession. Real G.D.P. almost doubled between 1933 and 1941 (90 percent increase).
An important point to understand, however, is that we're not dealing in these years simply with the closing of an output gap (the difference between actual and potential). Rather, we are dealing with a moving target, as productivity increased, thus increasing potential, under the combined influences of big increases in R.&D. investment, new products and processes, spillovers from the build-out of the surface road network, and in some sectors, creative responses to adversity. That's part of the explanation for why unemployment was still close to 10 percent in 1941.
Mr. Field: What's notable about the Depression years is the very broad range of advance. One can't point to a single or even a few innovations that somehow defined the era. Nonetheless, notable new products included the DC-3, a plane introduced in 1936 that revolutionized commercial aviation; television, developed with venture capital funding during the 1930s and rolled out at the 1939-40 World's Fair; and nylon stockings, introduced in May 1940, with 63 million pair sold the first year.
A number of products available in the 1920s moved from low-penetration boutique goods to mass-produced commodities. Case in point: mechanical refrigerators. Less than 3 percent of U.S. households had them in 1929, and they were expensive and unreliable, requiring extensive after-market service. In 1941, 44 percent of households had mechanical refrigeration, including 56 percent of urban households.
Automobiles saw major refinements in the 1930s. Heaters, radios, low-pressure balloon tires, and four-wheel hydraulic brakes all became standard. The decade saw the development of options we often consider standard today -- power steering, automatic transmission, front-wheel drive, and V-8 engines. Aside from product innovation, significant process innovation occurred across the industrial sector.
And in contrast to the 1920s, advance was not limited almost entirely to manufacturing. Highway design in the 1930s excited engineers as much as did the information "superhighway" in the 1990s. The U.S. route system, built almost entirely during the Depression, represented a huge improvement over what had preceded it, with big benefits for transportation and distribution.
Organizational innovation also played a role. In railroads, treaties now allowed unlimited freight interchange. Rolling stock -- railroad cars -- from one road could move onto tracks owned by another, and while there, discharge and pick up cargo, and even be repaired in a "foreign" yard. The agreements and uniform tariff schedules that permitted this were critical in enabling U.S. railroads to carry more freight and almost as many passengers in 1941 as they did in 1929, using many fewer employees, cars, and locomotives.
Mr. Field: On the one hand, it would be disingenuous to try and console those out of work with the thought that their sacrifices are laying the foundation for a better tomorrow. On the other hand, there is evidence that for some organizations and industries, just as for some individuals, adversity summons reservoirs of initiative and creativity that have long-term positive consequences. And based on Depression experience, we can be optimistic that when exciting technological paradigms are ripe for exploitation, work will continue on them, slump or no slump.
In thinking about the future, however, we should not overlook the important role played by the government. Federal spending was too small prior to the war to compensate for the decline in private sector capital formation and thus close the output gap. But it had big benefits on the aggregate supply side, as it complemented private sector initiative in expanding potential output.

        
On Debt Talks, a Lose-Lose-Lose-Lose Situation
        
Making Choices 'as if the Future Matters'
        
Using Economics to Help the World's Poor
        
Why Success Starts With Failure
        
'The Big Thirst': The Future of Water

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (92%); WORLD WAR II (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); BOOKSTORES (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%) Alexander Field; Book Chat; Great Depression; Great Depression (1930's); Productivity; Recession and Depression; United States Economy; Field, Alexander; Economix

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



285 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths COSTANZO, GESUALDO (AL)

 BODY:
COSTANZO--Gesualdo (Al), died April 10, 2011 at his home in Vero Beach at the age of 94. He was born in the Edgewater section of Birmingham, Alabama, and was the eldest son of Italian immigrants. Dr. Costanzo had resided in Vero Beach for more than 30 years, after relocating from New Canaan, Connecticut. He retired as Vice Chairman of Citicorp of New York and its principal subsidiary of Citibank of New York in 1980. A 1937 graduate of Birmingham Southern College with a degree in economics, Dr. Costanzo earned a Doctorate in Economics from the University of Virginia and later served as a research fellow at the Brookings Institute. 
During World War II, he was a lieutenant in the Navy and served as a Japanese language specialist. After the war, he returned to his passion, economics, and worked for the U.S. State Department, served as a U.S. Treasury Representative in Italy, and served as the American member of the Greek Currency Board in Athens, Greece under the Marshall Plan. Dr. Costanzo engineered the 1951 devaluation and economic reform in Greece ushering in the "golden age of the drachma", ten years of rapid economic growth that brought prosperity to Greece. Prior to his arrival at Citibank in 1961, Dr. Costanzo served as deputy director of the Western Hemisphere Department for the International Monetary Fund. During his 19 year tenure at Citibank, Dr. Costanzo led the growth of the banks international businesses around the world interfacing with economic and political leaders at times in unstable and even volatile political environments. Dr. Costanzo attracted and nurtured many young bankers and worked with economic and political leaders. During his career, Dr. Costanzo also served as the Chairman of the Mercantile Bank of Canada, and on the Board of Directors for Owens-Illinois, Beatrice Foods, National Cash Register Corporation, Gindlays Bank in the United Kingdom and S.K.F. in Sweden. He was predeceased by his wife of 44 years Lillie Costanzo, and is survived by his brothers Armand and John Costanzo of Birmimngham, Sam Costanzo of Macon, Georgia, and Henry Costanzo of Ithaca, NY; daughter, Mary Balliet and grandson Brian Balliet, Jr. Private family services will be at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to Lillie Costanzo scholarship fund of Birmingham Southern College, 900 Arkadelphia Road, Birmingham, AL 35254-0002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); DEVALUATION (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); FAMILY (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); CURRENCIES (67%)

COMPANY: NCR CORP (65%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); OWENS-ILLINOIS INC (53%); MERCANTILE BANK OF MONETT (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (56%); MARSHALL PLAN (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: NCR (NYSE) (65%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); OI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (65%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS326111 PLASTICS BAG & POUCH MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (91%); ATHENS, GREECE (70%); MACON, GA, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



286 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Portugal's Unnecessary Bailout

BYLINE: By ROBERT M. FISHMAN. 
Robert M. Fishman, a professor of sociology at the University of Notre Dame, is the co-editor of ''The Year of the Euro: The Cultural, Social and Political Import of Europe's Common Currency.''

 BODY:
South Bend, Ind.
PORTUGAL'S plea for help with its debts from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union last week should be a warning to democracies everywhere.
The crisis that began with the bailouts of Greece and Ireland last year has taken an ugly turn. However, this third national request for a bailout is not really about debt. Portugal had strong economic performance in the 1990s and was managing its recovery from the global recession better than several other countries in Europe, but it has come under unfair and arbitrary pressure from bond traders, speculators and credit rating analysts who, for short-sighted or ideological reasons, have now managed to drive out one democratically elected administration and potentially tie the hands of the next one.
If left unregulated, these market forces threaten to eclipse the capacity of democratic governments -- perhaps even America's -- to make their own choices about taxes and spending. 
Portugal's difficulties admittedly resemble those of Greece and Ireland: for all three countries, adoption of the euro a decade ago meant they had to cede control over their monetary policy, and a sudden increase in the risk premiums that bond markets assigned to their sovereign debt was the immediate trigger for the bailout requests.
But in Greece and Ireland the verdict of the markets reflected deep and easily identifiable economic problems. Portugal's crisis is thoroughly different; there was not a genuine underlying crisis. The economic institutions and policies in Portugal that some financial analysts see as hopelessly flawed had achieved notable successes before this Iberian nation of 10 million was subjected to successive waves of attack by bond traders.
Market contagion and rating downgrades, starting when the magnitude of Greece's difficulties surfaced in early 2010, have become a self-fulfilling prophecy: by raising Portugal's borrowing costs to unsustainable levels, the rating agencies forced it to seek a bailout. The bailout has empowered those ''rescuing'' Portugal to push for unpopular austerity policies affecting recipients of student loans, retirement pensions, poverty relief and public salaries of all kinds.
The crisis is not of Portugal's doing. Its accumulated debt is well below the level of nations like Italy that have not been subject to such devastating assessments. Its budget deficit is lower than that of several other European countries and has been falling quickly as a result of government efforts.
And what of the country's growth prospects, which analysts conventionally assume to be dismal? In the first quarter of 2010, before markets pushed the interest rates on Portuguese bonds upward, the country had one of the best rates of economic recovery in the European Union. On a number of measures -- industrial orders, entrepreneurial innovation, high-school achievement and export growth -- Portugal has matched or even outpaced its neighbors in Southern and even Western Europe.
Why, then, has Portugal's debt been downgraded and its economy pushed to the brink? There are two possible explanations. One is ideological skepticism of Portugal's mixed-economy model, with its publicly supported loans to small businesses, alongside a few big state-owned companies and a robust welfare state. Market fundamentalists detest the Keynesian-style interventions in areas from Portugal's housing policy -- which averted a bubble and preserved the availability of low-cost urban rentals -- to its income assistance for the poor.
A lack of historical perspective is another explanation. Portuguese living standards increased greatly in the 25 years after the democratic revolution of April 1974. In the 1990s labor productivity increased rapidly, private enterprises deepened capital investment with help from the government, and parties from both the center-right and center-left supported increases in social spending. By the century's end the country had one of Europe's lowest unemployment rates.
In fairness, the optimism of the 1990s gave rise to economic imbalances and excessive spending; skeptics of Portugal's economic health point to its relative stagnation from 2000 to 2006. Even so, by the onset of the global financial crisis in 2007, the economy was again growing and joblessness was falling. The recession ended that recovery, but growth resumed in the second quarter of 2009, earlier than in other countries.
Domestic politics are not to blame. Prime Minister Jose Socrates and the governing Socialists moved to cut the deficit while promoting competitiveness and maintaining social spending; the opposition insisted it could do better and forced out Mr. Socrates this month, setting the stage for new elections in June. This is the stuff of normal politics, not a sign of disarray or incompetence as some critics of Portugal have portrayed it.
Could Europe have averted this bailout? The European Central Bank could have bought Portuguese bonds aggressively and headed off the latest panic. Regulation by the European Union and the United States of the process used by credit rating agencies to assess the creditworthiness of a country's debt is also essential. By distorting market perceptions of Portugal's stability, the rating agencies -- whose role in fostering the subprime mortgage crisis in the United States has been amply documented -- have undermined both its economic recovery and its political freedom.
In Portugal's fate there lies a clear warning for other countries, the United States included. Portugal's 1974 revolution inaugurated a wave of democratization that swept the globe. It is quite possible that 2011 will mark the start of a wave of encroachment on democracy by unregulated markets, with Spain, Italy or Belgium as the next potential victims.
Americans wouldn't much like it if international institutions tried to tell New York City, or any other American municipality, to jettison rent-control laws. But that is precisely the sort of interference now befalling Portugal -- just as it has Ireland and Greece, though they bore more responsibility for their fate.
Only elected governments and their leaders can ensure that this crisis does not end up undermining democratic processes. So far they seem to have left everything up to the vagaries of bond markets and rating agencies.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOAO FAZENDA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (92%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (91%); PORTUGAL (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



287 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: With Money Tight, Museums Showcase Their Own Works

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
When the recession forced museums to cut back on expensive loan shows a few years ago, some worried that it would hurt attendance: With great works from around the world replaced by stuff hauled up from storage rooms, would art lovers' hearts still flutter?
Now, though, many museum directors are finding virtue in necessity. Shows built largely from in-house collections have drawn well, they say, and curators are introducing the public to unsung treasures.
''If the recession has compelled us as museums in this country to focus even more intensely than we have in the past on our collections, that's a good thing,'' said Glenn D. Lowry, the director of the Museum of Modern Art. ''Because they're our primary responsibility.''
Last year, for example, the Metropolitan Museum of Art exhibition on Picasso, stocked completely from the museum's own holdings, drew 700,000 visitors. And when the Los Angeles County Museum of Art opened its Resnick Pavilion last fall, it celebrated by showcasing its new collection of early European fashions. 
''The public doesn't care whether you own it or borrow it,'' said Michael Govan, the director of that Los Angeles museum. ''They're just interested in the presentation and the content.''
Museums all over the country are now concentrating on their permanent collections rather than staging blockbusters that rely on borrowed works of art. A survey by the Association of Art Museum Directors this year found that nearly three-quarters of its members were planning shows based on their permanent collections, compared with a little more than half who planned such exhibitions in 2005.
For all the upbeat talk, the trend can diminish the range and vibrancy of what museumgoers typically experience. Many have become accustomed to traveling shows that offer rare tastes of, say, the personal effects of King Tut or splendors from the Vatican.
''No collection, no matter how large and rich the museum, is ever deep enough and rich enough in any single area that it can be explored in depth,'' said Philippe de Montebello, the former director of the Met. ''You always have holes, where painters and artists are not represented.''
''Loan shows allow you to supplement the collections and to show art in many different ways,'' he added. ''You might want to show the relationship between Flemish art and Florentine art, and in order to do those thematic shows, you've got to borrow.''
Indeed, one criticism of the Met's Picasso show last year was that the museum's holdings included much that was undistinguished. ''The problem is the collection itself, which, despite some knockout items, is stodgy and almost bizarrely lopsided,'' the New York Times critic Holland Cotter wrote in his review.
The inward curatorial focus is evident at the Guggenheim Museum in New York, which a few years ago drew crowds with splashy loan shows about motorcycles and Armani fashions. This winter, though, curators there decided that parts of the museum's permanent collection were worth displaying twice, in back-to-back exhibitions. So 24 of the 31 paintings featured in ''Broken Forms: European Modernism From the Guggenheim Collection,'' which closed in January, resurfaced a month later in ''The Great Upheaval: Modern Art From the Guggenheim Collection, 1910-1918.''
Richard Armstrong, the Guggenheim's director, said he made no apologies for the overlapping shows. ''We don't feel particularly shy about recontextualizing exceptional works of art from time to time,'' he said. ''The only people who would have noticed were extreme insiders. Is it such a dereliction of duty to show great works twice in one year? The passion for novelty, I think, is counterproductive. We did it, we did it consciously, I have no qualms about it, and, to my eye, the paintings in question looked differently from show to show.''
While finances were ''a partial motivator,'' Mr. Armstrong said, ''an even more profound one was a desire on the part of the trustees and the staff to see the collection more frequently.''
Finances have nevertheless been part of the decision. Although museums typically do not discuss exhibitions' prices, loan shows always incur costs for transportation, customs fees and insurance. The Cincinnati Art Museum found it impractical to spend as much as $2.5 million a year on special exhibitions, given its declining endowment -- down to about $70 million from about $80 million in 2008 -- when it has unexploited holdings like circus posters and Dutch contemporary design. As a result, last summer the museum mounted ''See America,'' nine small shows that highlighted different parts of the country through the museum's collection.
Attendance at the museum has increased by 30 percent since it started emphasizing its permanent collection, said Aaron Betsky, the director. ''I've really become very skeptical of traveling exhibitions,'' he said.
Generally, it is smaller museums that have scaled back more often on loan shows. But even the larger institutions are turning a spotlight on their in-house collections.
At the Metropolitan Museum, Thomas P. Campbell, the director, told The Art Newspaper in 2009 that he expected the museum to reduce its large loan shows by about 20 percent. The museum, which bills its exhibition program as the largest in the world, subsequently said the reduction would be made over time as special-exhibition galleries on the second floor are turned into display spaces for the permanent collection. The museum is also using loans as a jumping-off point for shows from the permanent collection, as in its current exhibition of Paul Cezanne's card-player paintings.
''It's not a knee-jerk reaction to economic pressure,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''Every generation needs to rediscover its own resources.''
Several museums are reframing their collections through thematic shows, rather than by just exhibiting highlights. At the Museum of Arts and Design in New York, the show ''California Dreamers,'' which closed last October, featured its ceramics, and ''Eat Drink Art Design,'' which closed in February, its table objects.
''I think people appreciate the collection more when it's organized in a more intellectual and visual way,'' said Holly Hotchner, the director.
Similarly, the Studio Museum in Harlem has been showcasing its 2,000 objects with shows like the current ''Sculpted, Etched and Cut,'' which displays the museum's metal works, and the recent ''Collected. Black & White,'' a selection of photographs, paintings and works on paper.
''It has refined our sense of the collection,'' said Thelma Golden, the museum's director. ''It allows us to do exhibitions with material we don't have to borrow.''
The Indianapolis Museum of Art went from doing three major shows a year to two of longer duration because of financial considerations. But Maxwell L. Anderson, the museum's director, said the blockbuster era was merely in hibernation. ''That itch will come back as the economy recovers,'' he said.
For now, museums seem to be presenting their permanent collections with pride. At the Guggenheim, crowds have responded well to a second chance to view paintings from the likes of Franz Marc and Gino Severini that are now on display in ''The Great Upheaval.''
Roberta Smith, reviewing the exhibition for The New York Times, commended the adaptive reuse of the works that had been part of ''Broken Forms.''
''Money is tight,'' she wrote, ''and collections are often roomy, full of underexposed artwork awaiting the illumination of curatorial insight.''
Robert Storr, dean of the Yale School of Art, said museums should be prioritizing their holdings out of professional obligation, not economic necessity.
''Permanent collections are the soul of museums,'' he said. ''Repeated viewings of works that are constantly rearranged is their life blood and the basis of their bond with the public.''
Online Correction: April 12, 2011, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article transposed two exhibition titles. The current show titled ''The Great Upheaval'' at the Guggenheim reuses works that had been part of the museum's ''Broken Forms.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: More exhibitions display works from ermanent collections, like ''The Great Upheaval: Modern Art From the Guggenheim Collection, 1910-1918. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
 ''Going Dutch: Contemporary Design From Local Collections and the Cincinnati Art Museum,'' which has drawn visitors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LYONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); HOLY SEE (78%); BELGIUM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



288 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Narrowed in February As Both Imports and Exports Decreased

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit shrank in February, government figures showed on Tuesday, but economists said the trend could be short-lived as a surge in oil prices affects future reports.
The Census Bureau said the trade gap decreased to $45.8 billion in February, from $47 billion, revised from $46.3 billion, in January. Imports decreased in February by $3.6 billion, to $210.9 billion. Exports fell $2.4 billion, to $165.1 billion. Both categories were dominated by declines in vehicles and automotive parts.
Analysts had expected the deficit to narrow to $44.5 billion. 
''The narrowing in the trade deficit in February is a brief respite before the impact of the more recent surge in oil prices pushes the deficit sharply wider,'' Capital Economics economists said in a research note.
In another report, the Labor Department said import prices rose 2.7 percent in March, the sixth consecutive monthly increase. The rise was the biggest since June 2009 and contributed to an increase of 9.7 percent for the 12-month period ending in March.
Fuel prices led the advance, rising 9 percent in March. Nonfuel imports rose 0.6 percent.
Crude oil prices jumped in March to levels not hit since September 2008 as turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa, especially in Libya, unsettled the markets, even though supplies were sufficient to make up for any shortfall. The volume of oil imports declined in February.
But the trend in the United States trade balance could be unsettled in coming months as the price spikes are factored in.
''Higher oil prices are likely to give us a worsening trade deficit, at least in March and probably April, and that will be offset to an extent by a narrowing trade deficit in goods net of oil,'' said Steven Blitz, a senior economist for ITG Investment Research.
Gregory Daco, a United States economist with IHS Global Insight, said that there could be a pullback in oil imports in March, but that he was not expecting any major movement in the deficit. ''We did see higher oil prices for the month of March,'' he said. ''The question is: to what extent will they actually offset each other?''
''Oil prices will mitigate the drop in oil volumes,'' he added.
As for exports, which had risen for the previous five months, Mr. Daco said he expected strong growth for the year, helped by demand in emerging markets and the weak dollar.
Mr. Blitz said exports could have been affected by the weather in February and getting goods to ports. ''We did see January and February rail traffic get hurt,'' he said. ''But it has been soaring in March. I would say on the surface it is a little disappointing, but I am willing to give the numbers one more month.''
The report also noted that the deficit with China, the largest among the trading partners of the United States, shrank in February. The goods deficit with China decreased to $18.8 billion in February, from $23.3 billion in January. Exports rose slightly, by $400 million, while imports decreased by $4.1 billion, to $27.3 billion.
Over all, Mr. Daco said the decline in automotive exports in February could be a reaction to a surge the previous month, probably as orders were fulfilled. ''A pullback in February was to have been expected,'' he said. ''They rose 13.4 percent in January and fell back 9.3 percent in February.''
There were also drops in other categories, except for food and consumer goods, which were up 1.2 percent over the month.
''And that is relatively good news,'' Mr. Daco said. ''It means there is still some consumer spending momentum.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nissan vehicles from Japan at the Port of Los Angeles. The declines in imports and exports were led by the automotive industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM RUE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CENSUS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); US DOLLAR (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



289 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: ACT NOW!: Wise for Some Restaurants, Coupons Are a Drain at Others

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
MARC MURPHY, who owns four restaurants in New York, gets pitched by salespeople all the time. But these days most of them seem to be selling the same thing: online deal ploys.
''Everyone and their mother is walking in the door with discount sites,'' he said. Still, Mr. Murphy was taken aback by a conversation he had on the subway not long ago when another passenger recognized him from a television appearance. As they talked, the stranger mentioned that a friend of his had started a Web site that sold coupons for dining out. ''Then he started pitching it right there,'' Mr. Murphy recalled with amazement. ''How many more of these can there be?''
With more than a dozen deal sites born each week, there is no end in sight. Groupon, BlackboardEats, VillageVines and hundreds of other ventures are hurling sales-force cadres at restaurant managers. The newbies join the venerable Restaurant.com as well as Open Table, Yelp, LivingSocial, Gilt City, DailyCandy, Thrillist and a host of others. Mike Scotese, an owner of the Grey Lodge Pub in Philadelphia, said he has rejected ''15 different Groupon clones.'' 
Each site insists that its own proprietary Web gimmick will counter recession blahs with new-customer buzz while building repeat business. As millions of hungry bargain-hunters click on these dining deals, restaurant owners say it is unclear whether the great online social-coupon gold rush is the future of American eating or a new, faster way to go out of business.
''If you buy in, you may not make money,'' said Mr. Murphy, who is the vice president of the New York City chapters of the New York State Restaurant Association. ''Yet maybe you should be out there,'' he added, because no restaurateur can bear being left behind.
Diners hardly seem conflicted. ''When you're trying to save money, a discount doesn't hurt,'' said Lauren E. LaRusso, 25, a graduate student in education at the University of Pennsylvania. ''I assume that most of the other people at the restaurant don't have coupons, and I feel good, that I'm a little smarter than them.''
And some sites seem to be prospering. Groupon rejected a $6 billion offer from Google and has its sights on an initial public offering that could value the company at nearly $25 billion. That figure strikes some analysts as overly optimistic, but Groupon's cash flow (the company typically keeps half of revenue from coupons honored at participating restaurants) certainly looks enviable.
Many of the sites are leveraging their power by combining with social-networking powerhouses like Facebook and Twitter, and enhancing their usefulness with geographical overlays and mobile applications. Beyond the startups, legions of traditional brick-and-mortar businesses are jumping in, including The New York Times, which has announced it will offer daily e-mail deals, including some at restaurants.
The ones left struggling with this new math are the restaurateurs. As they run the numbers, the restaurateurs fall into several camps. The least conflicted are the cheerleaders.
''Our life changed after Groupon -- we would do it again,'' said Michele Casadei Massari, 35, an owner of two Piccolo Cafes in Manhattan. Groupon sells its online coupons for half their food value and then Groupon takes an additional 50 percent of the discount sales. On March 1, in a timed deal, Piccolo Cafe sold 1,142 coupons for $14 worth of food in 24 hours.
''You don't make money on the deal,'' Mr. Massari acknowledged, ''but in the end we are even.''
That's because ''people spend more than on the coupon amount,'' he said. ''They've been ordering about double the $14 from us. And people usually bring other customers, who are paying full price.''
Beyond that, among those who are redeeming coupons, ''80 percent have come back without a coupon,'' he said.
Deal sites are catnip to restaurateurs because they purport to offer instant solutions to two enduring conundrums: how to get the word out when your place is new or (worse) no longer new, and how to fill seats on slow days and at slow times.
''Think of how much it would cost you to hire public relations people, though you're never sure what media will be interested,'' Mr. Massari said. ''But Groupon gave us a massive marketing campaign that a small business like ours would never be able to afford.''
And VillageVines and many other sites offer restaurateurs the promise of guiding discount patrons to undesirable reservation times.
But antagonists are fomenting a deal backlash. ''When I go out to eat, I won't use a coupon -- the whole thing is getting over on somebody, and it feels yucky to me,'' said Monica Byrne, 46, a chef and a partner in the 40-seat Home/Made cafe in Red Hook, Brooklyn, which is deal-site free.
She prefers to believe that ''people want to eat out in places they really love and try to combine what they love with good value,'' Ms. Byrne added. ''And we already offer that.''
And she said serenely that, in the end, the discount bubble must collapse when enough coupon-scarred restaurants refuse to do Web deals.
To some, the bubble has already burst. After Ed Brown, of Ed's Chowderhouse in Manhattan, gave a few luxe deal sites a spin, he concluded that ''the discount doesn't bring any more money to the bottom line.'' He added, ''There is no way you'll ever make money on them, and we didn't.''
''So then what's the sense of it?'' he asked. ''You might as well pay them a few dollars and ask them not to come to your restaurant.''
Beyond that, nightmare tales abound on the Internet of hapless small businesses badgered by sales representatives into ruinous online discount programs, and harassed by obnoxious coupon customers. A cautionary tale is that of Posies Bakery and Cafe in Portland, Ore., which blogged ruefully last year about its $8,000 Groupon loss.
Then there's the restaurateur who turned to poetry in an agony of deal angst. Lori Mason, an owner of Klee Brasserie in Manhattan, wrote a seven-stanza ''Restaurateur's Response to the Discount Age'' for the restaurant's newsletter, including this cri de coeur:
''You pay half & Klee gets a shilling/while the kids at Groupon make another killing.''
''I am clearly no poet, but I did provoke a response,'' said the author, who emphasized that restaurants don't have the luxury of paying their landlords, staff members and purveyors with discount coupons. Klee Brasserie has offered discounts on sites that included Open Table, Gilt City, BlackboardEats, VillageVines, Groupon and DoodleDeals. ''But it's hard to know how any of it pans out,'' she said.
Certainly many deal-site customers dismiss the idea that they are cheapskates. ''I don't feel that we're exploiting these restaurants,'' said Lauren Hinkle, 26, a transcriptionist in Boston. ''If there's a problem, maybe it's Groupon's fault or the restaurant's fault for not looking at their finances.''
She said that she had no problem with tipping servers on the full, undiscounted value of the meal, adding that some restaurants ''go ahead and include the tip on the check, and that's fair to the servers,'' a sentiment echoed by many discount-seekers.
Currently many restaurateurs navigating these waters can best be described as situationists, practicing highly selective dealsmanship. ''The wisest way to look at it is as a marketing cost,'' said Rick Camac, a managing partner of the Fatty Crew of five New York restaurants. ''We used Groupon once, but it was not our demographic, it was the lower end of the dining scale.''
And so he went back to the drawing board with VillageVines, ''given their higher-end clientele,'' he said, and used the site's software to fill Fatty Crab seats in slack times.
Dan Leahy, a founder and the president of VillageVines, said that ''ours is not a service for people who like a cheap night out.'' Restaurants have high fixed costs for food, real estate and labor, and so VillageVines offers deals as an exercise in ''restaurant yield management,'' summoning the calculus that helps airplanes to take off with fewer empty seats.
''We are targeting restaurants that are 70 or 80 percent full,'' Mr. Leahy said, ''focusing on those times when tables don't turn.'' He has introduced discounts to Le Cirque, Aquavit and Delmonico's.
Groupon, which says it has 60 million subscribers, is adding Groupon Now, a GPS-based app offering local discounts that are time-specific so restaurants can experiment with off-peak pricing. Other high-end sites have rejected the Groupon model in favor of their strategies.
''Our customers are not coupon clippers, they are sophisticated diners who don't want to be shoved into reservation modules in the non-blacked-out times,'' said Maggie Nemser, 31, the founder and editor in chief of BlackboardEats, a boutique site that, she said, has close to 200,000 subscribers and has featured more than 350 restaurants in a year and a half, including the Mermaid Inn, the Harrison and Telepan in New York.
After the site's sales team persuades a restaurant to be featured, BlackboardEats sends anonymous reviewers who pay for their meals and write critiques for the Web site. ''And if they don't have a good experience, we can't feature the restaurant,'' Ms. Nemser said. The Web site does not take half the restaurant's discount sales, but instead makes its money through advertising.
If beckoning Web sites are diverse, so are the discount seekers. Vinicius Vacanti, a founder and the chief executive of Yipit.com, an aggregator site that sorts deals from more than 350 Web sites in 20 cities, said that 10 percent of Americans are coupon-clippers. Even as he adds 20 new deal sites a week, however, Mr. Vacanti pointed out that the dining majority is not discounting.
Indeed, Jessie Schupack, the director of communications for Mr. Murphy's two Landmarc restaurants, said that ''the customers who are paying full price are subsidizing the discounters,'' and added, ''So how long does it take for patrons to think, 'Why should I ever pay full price?' ''
If that kind of thinking catches on, restaurateurs will start to wonder what kind of bargain they have struck.
''These sites seem like pop-up businesses that will disappear,'' said Ms. Mason, the versifier. ''But I worry that when they wash away, and the tide pulls back, everyone will be expecting the kind of discounts that make it impossible for small businesses to stay afloat.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VIEWS: Alberto Ghezzi, far left, and Michele Casadei Massari of the Piccolo Cafe, which embraces online coupons. Monica Byrne of Home/Made does not. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MARK MATCHO) (D1)
 (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); BASEBALL (90%); SALES FORCE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); GROUP BUYING (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (63%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (56%); LIVINGSOCIAL INC (55%); GOOGLE INC (51%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



290 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Australia Courts China As a Market For Kangaroo

BYLINE: By MATT SIEGEL

 BODY:
SYDNEY -- With John Kelly's rural Australian drawl, it is almost startling to hear him use Chinese cooking terms.
''The Chinese have a strong culinary tradition in using wild foods, not just meat, but a wide range of wild foods called yaemei in Cantonese and yewei in Mandarin,'' said Mr. Kelly, executive director of the Kangaroo Industry Association of Australia, a lobbying group. ''Kangaroo will to a large extent just slot right into that existing tradition in much the same way it has in the European markets.''
Or so he hopes. 
Soaring Chinese demand for other resources, like iron ore and coal, has helped to keep the Australian economy growing even through the worst of the global financial crisis. China has surpassed Japan to become Australia's largest trading partner, accounting for 52.3 billion Australian dollars ($55.2 billion), or nearly 21 percent of this nation's exports in the financial year that ended last June.
Now, people like Mr. Kelly are hoping that Chinese demand can revive Australia's kangaroo meat industry, which has been struggling since a food-safety import ban was imposed in 2009 by Russia, the former leading importer.
Within Australia, kangaroo meat has always been a tough sell, either because the animal is a national symbol, whose slaughter animal rights activists oppose -- or because of its gamey, pungent flesh.
A 2008 study showed that just 14.5 percent of Australians had knowingly eaten kangaroo more than four times in the preceding year -- compared with 80 percent of Australian households that had eaten beef at least once a month.
The bigger opportunity has long been exports of meat from kangaroos, which are widely considered pests in the country's parched hinterlands, blamed for problems like soil erosion and nighttime road accidents.
As recently as 2008, Australian kangaroo meat exports totaled 10,010 tons -- worth 36.4 million Australian dollars, or $38.4 million, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Russia accounted for at least 58 percent of that market, until an E. coli outbreak linked to the meat in August 2009 led Moscow to ban the imports.
Australian kangaroo exports plummeted, to 2,920 tons worth 11.7 million Australian dollars ($12.3 million) in 2010.
With Russia's ban, the European Union has became the largest importer, buying 64 percent of the kangaroo meat that Australia sold overseas in 2010. The United States bought just 2.2 percent.
Meat for human consumption makes up about 80 percent of total kangaroo exports, which also include meat for pet food and skins for clothing.
Those sectors, too, have been affected, falling by about half since the Russian ban.
And so Mr. Kelly's group is looking toward China, which last December sent a government delegation to Australia to investigate the health and sanitary conditions of kangaroo producers.
While an import framework has already been agreed upon, Beijing is awaiting the results of its review, according to Joe Ludwig, an Australian senator who is the minister for agriculture, fisheries and forestry.
''A number of steps still remain before trade can commence,'' Mr. Ludwig said, ''including agreement of an export health certificate and approval of kangaroo processing establishments in Australia.''
Fang Xi, an economic official at the Chinese Embassy in Canberra, suggested the remaining steps were mere formalities. ''We hopefully will see the Chinese people enjoy kangaroo meat very soon,'' he said.
It is not a welcome prospect for groups like the Australian Society for Kangaroos, which asserts that besides being unfit for human consumption, the animals are in danger of being hunted to extinction.
Australia's kangaroo population ''can't even deal with the domestic and European consumption,'' said Nikki Sutterby, the society's coordinator. ''How would it deal with a country as large as China starting to eat kangaroo meat?''
According to government statistics, kangaroo populations have held steady for nearly a decade.
There are at least 25 million kangaroos living within commercial harvest areas -- more than one for each of the 23 million people in Australia -- which would seem to undermine claims of imminent extinction.
But Ms. Sutterby asked potential consumers to put ecology before appetite.
''If the Asians want to preserve our iconic population in the wild,'' she said, ''I recommend that they don't agree to the importation of kangaroos.''
Mr. Kelly, meanwhile, fairly salivates at the prospect of shipping kangaroo to the kitchens of the world's potentially biggest consumer market.
''I'd expect us to be putting product into China at some time this year,'' he said, adding that he expected China ''at some stage to be a larger market than Russia ever was.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jonathan Fitton, a butcher, placing kangaroo fillets on display at Hudson Meats in Sydney. Exports of the meat have plummeted since a 2009 ban in Russia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT SIEGEL FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BEEF (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (87%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); ANIMAL FOODS (77%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PET FOODS (77%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); E COLI (72%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); STATISTICS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); EROSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



291 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Praises Palestinians' Progress Toward a State

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER; Fares Akram contributed reporting from Gaza.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- The United Nations praised Palestinian Authority efforts at strengthening its institutions in a report on Tuesday, describing aspects of its administration as sufficient for an independent state.
The endorsement came at a crucial time for the Palestinian Authority, which has set a September deadline for the completion of its state-building program and is working toward international recognition of Palestinian statehood in the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem that month.
September is also the target date set by Israel and the Palestinians to reach a negotiated agreement for a Palestinian state, but the latest round of peace talks has been stalled for six months. 
A meeting of the so-called quartet of Middle East peacemakers -- the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia -- that was scheduled for Friday in Berlin has been canceled amid disagreements over how to proceed.
The United Nations report, published on the eve of a Palestinian donor meeting in Brussels on Wednesday, echoed similar assessments by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bankin reports issued last week.
In the six areas in which the United Nations is most engaged -- governance, rule of law and human rights; livelihoods; education and culture; health; social protection; and infrastructure and water -- it said that the authority's functions were ''now sufficient for a functioning government of state.''
It warned, however, that the authority's achievements were limited by the political and physical restrictions that the Israeli occupation has placed on further development. Some 60 percent of the West Bank's territory remains under full Israeli control.
The report said that the Palestinian economy was helped by Israeli measures to facilitate movement and access, but that further steps were needed.
''I believe Israel needs to roll back measures of occupation to match the P.A.'s achievements,'' Robert H. Serry, the United Nations special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, said in a statement. ''I also stress the urgent need for Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations on a two-state solution to resume, if the state-building and political tracks are to come together by September.''
The report noted an easing of restrictions on goods entering Gaza from Israel, but said an increase in construction materials was important to helping socioeconomic conditions in the coastal enclave, which is controlled by the authority's rival, Hamas.
Israel strictly limits the importing of construction materials into Gaza to approved, internationally supervised projects, saying it fears that Hamas could use cement, iron and other materials for weaponry and fortifications.
Underlining the stark difference between the West Bank and Gaza -- and the challenge that internal Palestinian divisions present to the goal of Palestinian statehood -- the only commercial crossing between Israel and Gaza remained closed for a fourth working day on Tuesday, with Israel citing specific security threats against the terminal.
The Israeli Defense Ministry ordered the crossing at Kerem Shalom closed last Wednesday afternoon, a day before an antitank missile launched from Gaza hit an Israeli school bus, critically wounding a 16-year-old boy and setting off days of intense exchanges of fire that killed 18 Palestinians, about half civilians.
The Gaza-based Palestinian Center for Human Rights reported that 29 cooking-gas distribution stations had closed and that stores were running out of medicine.
Israeli security officials said that there were no indications of shortages and that more than 3,600 trucks carrying mainly food and medical supplies entered Gaza through the Kerem Shalom crossing in March. They added that an additional 1,100 trucks carrying paving and construction materials went through another crossing that was opened temporarily for that purpose despite the firing of rockets and mortar shells by Gaza militants at southern Israel last month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Youths played at a cemetery east of Gaza City on Monday. Hamas, a rival of the Palestinian Authority, controls Gaza. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO LONGARI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); HAMAS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); HAMAS (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (56%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (71%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



292 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Lagging In Using Technology, Study Shows

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
The United States continues to lag other nations in its use of computing and communications technology, according to an annual study issued Tuesday by the World Economic Forum.
For the second consecutive year, the United States finished fifth in the study's comparison of 138 countries that make up 98.8 percent of the world's total gross domestic product. Sweden was first, followed by Singapore, Finland and Switzerland. 
These rankings, for 2010, are based on an index of 71 economic and social indicators, as diverse as new patents, mobile phone subscriptions and availability of venture capital.
The annual reports began in 2001, after the collapse of the Internet bubble. The World Economic Forum, based in Davos, Switzerland, holds that technological progress is the principal driver of innovation, productivity and efficiency.
''What we are trying to address,'' said a co-author of the study, Soumitra Dutta, a professor of Information Systems at the Insead business school, ''is what is the capability and what is the level of success of a nation to benefit from the network economy?''
The study showed the rapid progress of the so-called Asian Tigers, whose governments have invested heavily in technology. Besides Singapore, Taiwan was ranked 6th, South Korea 10th and Hong Kong 12th. Japan was 19th.
China ranked 36th and India 48th, falling five places from 2009. Rounding out the large developing BRIC countries -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- Brazil was 56th and Russia 77th.
The country making the most progress in 2010 was Indonesia, which jumped 14 places to 53rd -- in part because of high educational standards and in part because of the importance the government has placed on information and communications technology.
Among Western nations, Canada was 8th, Norway 9th, Germany 13th, Britain 15th and France 20th. The two lowest countries were Burundi and Chad.
The United States was uneven on many measures that affect economic competitiveness. For example, it ranked 76th in the rate of mobile phone subscriptions, 48th in low-cost access to business phone lines and 24th in percentage of households with a personal computer -- behind Bahrain, Singapore and Brunei, among others. Professor Dutta said the United States ranked 52nd in math and science education.
The World Economic Forum has created an ambitious Web site, weforum.org/tgt, to display the findings, including a visualization tool useful for exploring the data.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BRIC COUNTRIES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); MATHEMATICS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); PATENTS (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (72%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (67%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); FINLAND (90%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); BURUNDI (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (72%); GERMANY (69%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



293 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Social Security and Those Who Need It

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''To Cut the Deficit, Look to Social Security'' (Op-Ed, April 5):
Alicia H. Munnell correctly points out that Social Security does not contribute to the federal deficit, because it is financed by a specific payroll tax and is legally prohibited from spending money it does not have in its own coffers. She then admits that ''scheduled Social Security benefits and current payroll taxes are included in long-term deficit projections by the Congressional Budget Office, the Office of Management and Budget and the Government Accountability Office.''
Why is this misleading accounting allowed to happen? It artificially inflates deficit projections, wrongly gives grounds for accusing Social Security of adding to the deficit and plays into the hands of the enemies of one of the New Deal's most successful achievements. 
SEYMOUR BECKER New York, April 5, 2011
To the Editor:
Alicia H. Munnell offers what she describes as ''a balanced plan'' of benefit cuts and tax increases to shore up Social Security. Unfortunately, the plan is not balanced.
Indexing the age of eligibility for full benefits to improvements in average longevity would penalize the many workers who for various reasons must retire before reaching the full-benefits age.
Switching to an inflation measure that undermeasures the inflation actually experienced by beneficiaries is a benefit cut that compounds over time, increasing as beneficiaries grow older and exhaust other resources: the more they need full inflation protection, the less they get.
Moreover, these cuts would be added to the nearly 20 percent cut in 21st-century benefits resulting from legislation enacted in 1983.
On the revenue side, increasing the earnings subject to the payroll tax makes sense but would not come close to offsetting the combined effects of the proposed benefit cuts and those already in law.
THOMAS N. BETHELL Washington, April 5, 2011
The writer is a visiting scholar at the National Academy of Social Insurance.
To the Editor:
Alicia H. Munnell states: ''Solving Social Security's problems would not only reduce the long-term deficit, but also improve the future security of retirees,'' a reasonable aspiration. But I was taken aback by the following: ''While the Domenici-Rivlin plan is far from perfect -- for example, the change in the cost-of-living adjustment would hurt the oldest of the old -- it can serve as a starting point.''
I find that statement to be very cold. What kind of people have we become that we would ''hurt the oldest of the old'' as ''a starting point''? Such a recommendation is a rank betrayal of some of the weakest among us. Would it not be more appropriate for a civil society to declare, ''And in our efforts to cut the deficit, we will do everything in our power to avoid hurting the oldest of the old''?
PHILIP CORSELLO Denver, April 5, 2011
To the Editor:
Alicia H. Munnell doesn't identify any near-term problems in the Social Security system and even admits that ''without any changes, Social Security payroll taxes could pay 100 percent of benefits for the next 25 years.'' Nevertheless, after noting numerous unrelated health care and private pension problems, she endorses a ''balanced plan of benefit cuts and tax increases.''
In other words, Social Security taxes will continue to be used to subsidize every other function of government for decades to come. Social Security isn't ''pay as you go''; it is ''overpay as you go.'' An honest solution would address the real problems -- overspending on war, health care and special interests while giving tax cuts to the rich -- and leave Social Security alone.
KENT JEFFREYS Washington, April 8, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM GOUGH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); COST OF LIVING (76%); WRITERS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



294 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Commodity Prices Decline, and Shares Go With Them

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks on Wall Street were dragged down by tumbling crude oil prices and weaker commodity markets on Tuesday as investors expected lower demand in Japan in the aftermath of the earthquake, the tsunami and the nuclear crisis.
Some analysts said oil prices had been due for a correction, with the speculative nature of the markets one reason behind its recent rise. Prices had risen in recent weeks on a weaker dollar and heightened concern over the potential for oil supply disruptions in the Middle East and North Africa.
On Tuesday, however, crude oil prices turned decidedly lower after weeks of hitting highs not seen since September 2008. Oil fell 3.3 percent, to $106.25 a barrel in New York trading, while Brent crude fell 1.6 percent, to $121.04 in London. 
Prices for other commodities were also lower, including gold, silver, copper, cotton and corn.
Economists at Capital Economics said that Japan was just one factor in the overall weakness in commodity prices.
''More generally, we have been arguing for some time that these prices would soon reach danger levels that would undermine demand and contribute, in time, to sharp falls,'' Capital Economics said in a report.
The Dow Jones industrial average recorded its biggest decline in nearly a month when it fell 0.95 percent or 117.53 points, to 12,263.58. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 0.78 percent, or 10.30 points, to 1,314.16. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite fell 0.96 percent, or 26.72 points to 2,744.79.
Also weighing on the market were quarterly results from Alcoa, the aluminum producer, which reported Monday after the market closed that its first-quarter profit slightly beat estimates but that its revenue lagged estimates. Alcoa shares fell more than 6 percent, to $16.70.
As oil prices fell, so did energy shares, which declined nearly 3 percent. Materials shares were down 1.35 percent and technology shares were 0.89 percent lower.
Chevron declined 3.34 percent, to $104.18, while Exxon fell 2.33 percent, to $83.18. Caterpillar also pulled down the Dow with a 2.29 percent drop, to $106.57.
Clark Yingst, a chief market analyst for Joseph Gunnar, said the recent surge in oil prices had not been driven by underlying demand but by a weaker dollar and the geopolitical crisis in the Middle East and North Africa.
Goldman Sachs economists wrote in a research report that they expected a ''substantial pullback'' of $20 in the near-term target price of Brent crude oil price goal to $105 a barrel.
Speculation has also been cited as a factor in the surge in prices, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in its most recent report that oil futures contracts had increased 4.5 percent as of last Tuesday to reach the third-highest level since records started in 2006.
Such speculation, Mr. Yingst said, ''contributed to the skyrocketing oil prices'' in the futures market in 2008. ''All of that has come together and caused the decline across the board,'' he said of the range of factors affecting the drop in commodity prices.
But he said the decline in oil prices was good in that it could help consumer discretionary spending and lower inputs for corporations.
Meanwhile, analysts said that bond prices benefited from increased risk aversion and fears over the human and economic costs of the continuing situation in Japan.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 23/32, to 101 3/32. The yield fell to 3.49 percent, from 3.58 percent late Monday.
''Recognizing this, the global investment community is taking the latest developments as good reason to reinitiate the ''flight to quality'' trade by fleeing riskier assets in favor of Treasuries,'' said Kevin H. Giddis, the executive managing director and president for fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan & Company.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FUTURES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); FIBER MARKETS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); ALCOA INC (53%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



295 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1009 words

PERSON: Salvador Assael 

HEADLINE: Salvador Assael, 88, Dies; Coaxed Riches From Pearls

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Salvador Assael, a titan of the cultured pearl business whose wares were prized for their size, hue and luminosity, died on April 1 in Manhattan. He was 88.
The death, after a short illness, was confirmed by Madeleine Stancescu, a spokeswoman for his company, Assael International. Mr. Assael had a home in Manhattan.
Mr. Assael (pronounced ah-sigh-YELL) was known in particular for creating the modern market for black pearls, which had traditionally languished in the shadow of their brilliant white cousins. 
At his death he was the chairman of Assael International, a pearl importer and producer based in New York; the company's pearls have been carried by the world's best-known jewelers, including Tiffany & Company, Cartier and Harry Winston. He numbered among his personal clients Elizabeth Taylor, Margaret Thatcher, Nancy Reagan and Brooke Astor.
In his book ''Tears of Mermaids: The Secret Story of Pearls,'' published in 2009, the journalist Stephen G. Bloom called Mr. Assael ''the pearl trader with the biggest cachet in the world.''
Pearls are nothing more than little lumps of calcium carbonate -- the same stuff that makes up antacids -- but what glorious little lumps they are. Natural pearls occur when an oyster is invaded by some foreign agent like a parasite. (Contrary to popular belief, the irritant is rarely a grain of sand.)
The oyster vanquishes the invader by surrounding it with the fine, opalescent deposits of calcium carbonate known as nacre, and little by little a pearl is born.
Cultured pearls, by contrast, result from a delicate collaboration between man and oyster. In a process perfected in Japan in the early 20th century, an object -- often a round bead -- is inserted into an oyster, along with a piece of tissue from a donor oyster. Together, these induce the host oyster to begin coating the bead with nacre.
Once seeded, the oyster is submerged for two years or more, after which the pearl is carefully excised. At a typical pearl farm (they are found primarily throughout Asia, Australia and Polynesia), hundreds of thousands of oysters are at work at any given time, each building a single pearl.
Pearls occur naturally in a range of colors. Black pearls -- the term covers anything from light gray to iridescent black tinged with blue, green or violet -- had a brief vogue in the second half of the 19th century, when Empress Eugenie, the wife of Napoleon III of France, wore a magnificent strand. By the end of the century, natural black pearls were more valuable than white ones.
Where natural pearls -- rare finds subject to the whims of nature -- were prohibitively expensive, cultured pearls proved far more democratic. But by the mid-20th century, an era of white bread, white sugar and June Cleaver in her chalky strand, the cultured white pearl had become ubiquitous.
Its dominance remained unchallenged until the 1970s, when Mr. Assael almost single-handedly popularized cultured Tahitian black pearls through a combination of business savvy, sheer force of personality and, according to Mr. Bloom's book, an almost preternatural knack for being in the right place at the right time.
''What Assael did that's so interesting is to turn what had been considered junk pearls into designer pearls that for a moment in history, women who were wealthy had to have,'' Mr. Bloom said in a telephone interview. ''A strand could easily sell for over a hundred thousand dollars. Individual pearls could sell for ten thousand dollars apiece.''
As a result of the recent recession, Mr. Bloom said, the price of pearls has dropped as much as 90 percent.
A debonair man, Mr. Assael was, like many power brokers in the international luxury jewelry business, at once larger than life and secretive to the point of opacity. In Mr. Bloom's book, colleagues describe him by turns as brilliant and brazen.
Salvador James Assael was born in Milan in 1923 to a Sephardic Jewish family in the diamond trade. (His precise date of birth could not be confirmed; Mr. Assael's family declined to be interviewed.) As World War II loomed, the family fled Italy, settling first in Havana and eventually in New York.
After the war, Mr. Assael hit upon a plan to sell Swiss watches to Japan. The Japanese craved the watches but had no money. What they did have was pearls.
He became an active trader in white pearls and to the end of his career was known for white South Sea pearls of enormous size, some approaching 20 millimeters in circumference. Before long, he concluded that the real money lay in owning the means of production -- the pearl farms -- and having hordes of irritated oysters do his bidding.
In the early 1970s, Mr. Assael was alerted to the black-lipped oyster, Pinctada margaritifera, found in Polynesian waters, which produces black-hued pearls. (Today, the region's black pearls are known by the generic name Tahitian pearls.)
In the mid-'70s, he brought about half a dozen black strands from his first successful crop to Harry Winston in New York, where they were incorporated into lush pieces of jewelry. Displayed in the shop's window, they sold at once.
Over time, Mr. Assael developed what is conservatively estimated to be a multimillion-dollar business, with interests in various pearl farms in French Polynesia.
A philanthropist identified in particular with Jewish causes, he founded what is almost certainly the only Sephardic synagogue in the South Pacific, Temple Dorette Assael, in Papeete, Tahiti.
Mr. Assael's first wife, the former Dorette Vock, died in 1991. He is survived by his second wife, Christina Lang Assael; a daughter from his first marriage, Arlette Assael; and two children from his second marriage, Sophia Lang Assael and Robert Lang Assael.
In 1998, appearing on the PBS television program ''Nova,'' Mr. Assael demonstrated the quick thinking and diplomatic skill that had helped make him successful.
''I love pearls beyond anything,'' he said, before adding, in an apparent self-correction: ''I love my family most of all, I love my office staff most of all, but, after that, I love pearls most of all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Salvador Assael, left, who popularized black pearls, here selects from Robert Wan's assortment in Tahiti in French Polynesia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUIE PSIHOYOS/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); PEARLS (91%); GEMSTONE MARKETS (78%); WRITERS (73%); AQUACULTURE (73%); SHELLFISH FARMING (65%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (70%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (70%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (70%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (85%); JAPAN (74%); ASIA (53%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



296 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: ACT NOW!: Wine Prices Slashed; This Offer Won't Last

BYLINE: By JORDAN MACKAY

 BODY:
WHAT do you consider a bargain in wine? Ten percent off? Twenty? How about 40? That was the discount that Wines Til Sold Out offered recently on 2006 Chateau Angelus, a top Bordeaux that was being sold for nearly $100 off its original price of about $250.
Prices that seem too low to be true are typical of the dozen or so flash wine sale sites that have popped up over the last two years. The sites offer limited amounts of wines at discounts that are shockingly steep but highly temporary. Typically each sale lasts for no more than a day or two before the sand in the hourglass runs out.
''The deals are usually screaming,'' said Jim Barnyak, a Seattle financial manager and frequent shopper of such sites. ''Deals that any wine store can't come close to touching.'' Early each morning, Mr. Barnyak checks for e-mails alerting him to the next hot sale. ''Sometimes you have to respond within 15 minutes to get the really good bargain.'' 
In just a few years, the flash wine market has grown to about $100 million in annual sales, about 25 percent of the overall online wine market, according to an estimate by the wine industry consulting firm VinTank. Whether it can sustain that gangbuster pace is far from clear. Many industry veterans predict that the glut will dry up in the next year or so and that winemakers will be straightening their clothes and glancing around to see if anyone noticed that they'd participated in anything so undignified as deep-discounting.
But out of desperation can come opportunity. Some in the wine industry say that flash sites may outlive the surplus that brought them into existence and prove themselves useful in other ways. The sites have ''brought new customers into the space, and boosted their comfort level in buying wine online,'' said Michael Greenlee of the Napa-based wine consultancy Amedeo.
And for producers, flash sites might turn out to be a sophisticated sales team, giving customers information about the wines -- and winemakers information about the customers. Until recently, wineries rarely had problems selling their bottles to a public with mounting thirst. But as a result of the recession and a consolidation of distributors that has made it tougher for wineries to get their products into stores, some winemakers have watched entire vintages stack up.
Enter the flash sites. A welcome pressure valve for the industry, flash sales have allowed wineries, particularly at the middle and higher end, to unload huge numbers of bottles in staggeringly short times, albeit at drastically reduced prices. Not long ago, WineAccess blew out the better part of 700 cases -- 8,400 bottles -- of 2006 Keenan Merlot in under 24 hours. The profits on such sales may be small or nonexistent, but at least they give the wineries cash to pay for the next vintage's barrels and grapes.
Even in the depths of the recession, though, many in the industry were powerfully averse to slashing prices.
Jack Stuart, the winemaker for Benessere Vineyards in Napa Valley, recalled that, after he had sold some wine through a flash site, the owner of the site talked about establishing a long-term relationship.
''I sort of laughed to myself, thinking 'This is not a sustainable business model,' '' he said. ''There's no way we could afford to sell a significant proportion of our production this way.''
As the recovery creeps forward, resistance to slashing prices is apt to grow. Gary Vaynerchuk, the online wine marketing phenomenon behind Wine Library and Wine Library TV, predicts that the wine surplus will last longer than some producers expect, but that eventually ''things will go back to normal.'' When that happens, he said, flash sites will be forced to evolve, and some will probably not survive. Their style of doing business may make the difference.
Most flash sites operate under one of two models. Some are retailers, negotiating tremendous discounts, buying the wines either directly from the winery or through wholesalers, and then fulfilling the orders themselves. Mr. Vaynerchuk's Cinderella Wine is in this category, as is Wines Til Sold Out. These sites tend to feel like online analogues of stores like Costco -- cavernous and devoid of personality, but exuding a no-nonsense, deep-discount vibe.
The other model for a flash site is the marketing agent that sells wine but never takes possession of it, leaving the hassles of shipping legalities and order fulfillment to the wineries. These sites, like Wine.Woot and Lot 18, specialize in ''hand-selling'' bottles, in part by educating consumers about the wineries.
Many in the wine industry say that in the post-surplus world, these sites are better positioned to succeed because they can help wineries build their brands, communicate directly and creatively with customers, and create interactive communities of buyers.
Wine.Woot, the first flash site, which made its debut in May 2006, offers literary narratives to accompany its daily 24-hour deals. (A recent sale of Riverbench pinot noir fronted a hard-boiled scenario that began, ''It was a cold, gray night in Baghdad by the Bay. ... A thick fog hung on anything foolish enough to be outside, but I had more pressing worries. There, in the doorway to my office, stood the Riverbench Winery Estate Pinot Noir 4-Pack gang.'') Each sale is accompanied by a ''vintner voice mail'' with the winemaker talking about the bottle. Winemakers also chat online throughout the day with Wine.Woot's highly active and engaged community.
Matt Licklider, a founder of the Lioco winery in California, was skeptical about flash sites, but recently gave Wine.Woot a try. He liked the experience, particularly the time he spent interacting with consumers on the site's chat board.
''I had probably 25 different conversations going on simultaneously with a group of people I regarded to be quite savvy about wine,'' Mr. Licklider said.
The Wine.woot model, he said, might promise a cheaper and faster way of doing business. ''If I have to sell wine at wholesale cost to Wine.Woot, that's essentially the same price that I would sell to distributors in various states. Then I would have to buy a plane ticket, fly to visit the market, stay in a hotel, rent a car, take the distributor and his salespeople out to dinner and spend three days selling all that wine. You can see how inefficient and expensive all that is.''
The Wine Spies has a hybrid model, offering both a marketing and retail component, as well as a gimmick. The site casts sales as ''missions'' in which two characters known as Agent Red and Agent White are charged with tracking down wines. Along the way, the site provides quite a bit of information, including lengthy winemaker interviews. Discounts of at least 20 percent are part of the business model, said Jason Seeber, a k a Agent Red, but are not the sole point of the site.
''That discount is meant really to entice people who might otherwise hesitate to buy a wine they don't know,'' he said. ''If we're selling this wine at 25 percent off with a very detailed review and a comprehensive interview with the winemaker and we really tell the story of the wine in a very accurate way, all those things are going to lower the barrier to entry.'' The Wine Spies has experienced annual double-digit growth since its debut in 2007, Mr. Seeber said.
Besides helping to reach more customers in less time, flash sites that specialize in marketing can also provide the kind of direct connection that can be hard for winemakers to come by. ''Outside of direct-to-consumer sales, wineries are pretty much ignorant as to who's buying their wine,'' said Paul Mabray, the chief strategy officer of VinTank. ''They sell it to the wholesaler, retailer or restaurant instead of the actual consumer, so their guess is as good as any who's actually buying it.''
Other flash sites are evolving to build relationships with customers beyond their monitors. Eric Bolen, a marketing consultant for WineAccess, has recently started offering ''private sales'' of exclusive wines to their best customers. ''We then deliver all the names to the winery, who then sends them a handwritten note inviting them in for a special private tasting,'' he said.
Likewise, Mr. Greenlee of Amedeo said that he is working with One King's Lane, a discount home-decor site that recently added wine to its portfolio, to package wines with experiences like vineyard tours and meals at the winery.
''The wineries are interested in keeping the relationship with customers beyond the sale,'' he said. Mr. Greenlee added that such package deals might be a way to reach new customers beyond the hard-core consumers who are, he said, the primary users of sites like Wineaccess.com.
Whatever the future holds, the fate of online wine retail will no doubt be dynamic. ''It'll be fun to see who's got the chops to do different things off the platform they've created,'' Mr. Vaynerchuk said. ''To see who just ends up being a flash and who ends up being a flash in the pan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FLASH SELLERS: David Studdert, above, of wine.woot, selects wines for discounted sales. Jason Seeber, left, of the site Wine Spies, with cases emptied in a couple of days of sales. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MARK MATCHO)(C1)
 (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CUTTING (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); WINERIES (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAIL SALES (74%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



297 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: A New South City Looks to a Future Not Built on Banking

BYLINE: By J. MICHAEL WELTON

 BODY:
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Just a few years ago, this city had placed all its eggs in the banking basket, becoming a regional powerhouse and a symbol of the New South after a series of mergers and acquisitions that resulted in the financial titans Bank of America and Wachovia.
Bank of America's 50-story headquarters, Charlotte's tallest building when it was completed in 1993, was to be joined by a similarly sized home for Wachovia. 
But the economic convulsions of late 2008 intervened. Almost overnight, Wachovia became a subsidiary of Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco. Its unfinished tower, including three museums and a theater at its base, was briefly christened the Wells Fargo Cultural Center.
Wells Fargo then negotiated a deal with Duke Energy to give the utility about 500,000 square feet of space on 21 floors in the building, which was finished last year and is now known as the Duke Energy Center. The lease, and the construction of two other new buildings in the city's central business district, known as Uptown, point to a more diversified future for the city.
One of the other tenants in the tower is Cassidy Turley, the city's fourth-largest property management firm. Maxwell Hanks, a senior vice president, said Charlotte has had to adjust to a new array of realities: a 13.5 percent office vacancy rate, nearly three million square feet of vacant space and a banking-based economy that was diversifying rapidly into military and energy.
''I find myself in the psychology business these days -- of managing expectations for both landlords and tenants,'' Mr. Hanks said in his office on the 34th floor. ''The market has changed. There's more supply, weaker demand and greater vacancy. But there are more concessions too.''
The Duke Energy Center -- or the Tower of Power as some call it -- has 1.3 million square feet over 48 stories and is now 97 percent occupied. The Duke name has transformed it into a symbol not only of Charlotte's ability to weather a severe financial downturn, but also of a regional economy that is moving beyond banking and into other industries.
''The city fathers took a body blow in 2008,'' said Tom Shiel, the communications manager of Duke Energy. ''They took an eight count, then asked what they could do to prevent that from ever happening again.''
They began by focusing on industry sectors that had been recruited in previous years and were growing, like military contracting and aerospace. One contractor, Goodrich, had established its headquarters in Charlotte in 1999, while General Dynamics, which is based in Virginia, moved executive offices for its armament and technical products division here in 2004. Last year, BAE Systems of Britain, whose United States unit is based in Arlington, Va., committed to opening a human resources and finance center in Charlotte, creating 176 jobs.
Also on their radar screen was the energy sector. Already, the Shaw Group and Areva were among about 50 such companies clustered in and around the city. Then last June, Babcock & Wilcox, the energy engineering company based in Lynchburg, Va., moved its headquarters and 130 jobs here. More significantly Duke Energy is now poised to lay claim to the title of the nation's largest electric utility, pending approval of its $13.7 billion acquisition, not including debt, of Progress Energy of Raleigh, N.C. Recently, Duke's chief executive, James E. Rogers, told The Financial Times that the deal would put the company in a stronger position for further consolidation.
''Usually when you go to a major city, all the tall buildings are the banks,'' said Clark Gillespy, vice president of economic development at Duke Energy. ''I've never been to a city where it's the energy company. Here, it's because Rogers has driven a stake in the ground and said it's the energy sector that's going to lead us out of this recession.''
That may take a while. Vacancy rates have been steadily increasing since a low of 2.5 percent in 2008, rising this year by almost a full percentage point over 2010's rate of 12.7 percent. The last time Charlotte was bumping this long and low across the bottom was 1993. Then, two bank chief executives, Hugh McColl of NationsBank and Edward E. Crutchfield of First Union, set out on a nationwide tear of acquisitions that eventually formed Bank of America and Wachovia, respectively the nation's largest and fourth-largest banks. ''They really got traction back then,'' Mr. Hanks said. ''It took about 24 months from that downturn to get back to single digits.''
But in 1993, Uptown Charlotte consisted of just 10 million square feet of commercial space. In 2011, it covers 22 million, much of that available because banks are giving up third-party space and heading back to buildings they own. That leaves a lot of empty offices -- about 2.8 million square feet -- much of it Class A space.
Mr. Hanks said the Duke Energy Center was one of two new buildings he would characterize as ''Super-A'' space -- because it was LEED platinum certified by the United States Green Building Council and dominated the city skyline. The other is the recently completed 32-story Bank of America Center, now 95 percent under lease. Nearby is the new Nascar Plaza office tower, with 230,000 of its total 390,000 square feet available -- all of it Class A space and much of it contiguous.
Effective leasing rates are estimated at 15 to 25 percent lower than they were four years ago. The remaining Super-A space -- a little under 100,000 square feet between the two high-rises -- can be had for $28 to $34 a square foot, Mr. Hanks said. The Uptown area has 1.6 million square feet of Class A space commanding $23 to $28 a square foot, and 1.1 million square feet of Class B space that runs $18 to $23 a square foot.
Charlotte's changes will be on display to the world in September 2012, when the Democratic Partyholds its convention here. It is expected to bring in 35,000 visitors and generate $150 million.
Mr. Hanks predicted that companies would like what they saw during the convention. ''It will be enticing for a top-tier company to come in and reboot in a New South city,'' he said. ''With the convention in 2012, companies will come in, like it and stay.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above left, the new Bank of America Center. Above, the Charlotte skyline with the Duke Energy Center on the far left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS KEANE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (73%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (83%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (54%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (50%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); DUK (NYSE) (83%); BA (LSE) (54%); GD (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



298 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Adjust Oil Production as World Demand Fluctuates

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- Saudi Arabia has maintained its role this year as the world's oil producer of last resort, the International Energy Agency said Tuesday.
When output from Libya declined this year, Saudi Arabia opened the spigots. And when demand fell as a result of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the country tightened them back down. 
The Saudis raised output an average of 310,000 barrels a day in the first three months of the year, to 8.88 million barrels a day, with expectations that production would hold at more than 9 million barrels in March. But the quake and tsunami that hit north of Tokyo changed the equation, cutting Japanese demand and leading to the diversion of Japan-bound Saudi oil tankers to other countries.
''As a result, Saudi Aramco is thought to have throttled back production in mid-March,'' the agency said, referring to the state-owned oil company.
The agency estimated that the effects of the earthquake would cut second-quarter demand by 270,000 barrels a day, easing upward pressure on prices.
But for the rest of the year, it said, increased Japanese oil use for power generation and reconstruction would make up the difference. The agency, therefore, left intact its 2011 demand forecast at 89.4 million barrels a day, up 1.6 percent from 2010.
Oil prices have been increasing, spurred by production lost to the conflict in Libya and unrest throughout the Middle East and North Africa. Light sweet crude, the United States benchmark, has risen about 19 percent this year, and settled Tuesday at $106.25 a barrel for June delivery.
Fears that higher energy costs will lead to a generalized rise in prices have not occurred. But economists warn that the world economy, still weighed down by banking sector problems, may be too fragile to maintain its momentum if energy prices continue to climb.
The agency said a sustained price of more than $100 a barrel could ''prove incompatible with the currently expected pace of economic recovery.''
And it warned that ''if global supply were to chug along at March levels for the rest of 2011,'' developed world inventories could near five-year lows by the end of the year.
Global output declined by 700,000 barrels a day in March, to 88.3 million barrels, as Libyan crude production fell, the agency said.
Production in March and April fell a cumulative 100,000 barrels a day in Yemen, Oman, Gabon and Ivory Coast amid strife in those countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (86%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (77%); EARTHQUAKES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%)

COMPANY: SAUDI ARAMCO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); JAPAN (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); GABON (79%); YEMEN (79%); OMAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



299 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: What's on Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Sundance) THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN (2009) An unemployed, vacant-eyed young woman (Emilie Dequenne, above left, with Catherine Deneuve) who lives with her distant mother (Ms. Deneuve) near a train track in the Paris suburbs pretends to be the victim of an anti-Semitic attack after a relationship with a thuggish athlete (Nicolas Duvauchelle) sours. This seductive drama from Andre Techine was based on the real-life case involving Marie-Leonie Leblanc, a 23-year-old who claimed in 2004 that she had been the victim of an anti-Semitic attack by six men of North African and African origin on a train outside Paris. The French president at the time, Jacques Chirac, condemned the attack, and the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, urged French Jews to leave for Israel to ''escape the wildest anti-Semitism.'' Then the woman admitted that she had lied. ''I wanted my parents to take care of me,'' she explained, ''my boyfriend to take care of me.'' Manohla Dargis, reviewing the film in The New York Times, said: ''Mr. Techine isn't pretending that he understands what people do. But by showing us what they do, the flowers they pick and the people they love, he makes us notice them more intently.'' 
9:30 A.M. (CUNY) CITY TALK In a two-part episode about baseball, repeated at 4:30 and 9:30 p.m., Doug Muzzio interviews the journalist Jimmy Breslin about his new book, ''Branch Rickey,'' about the manager and executive who helped break the sport's color barrier by signing Jackie Robinson (above with Rickey) to the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947. Though the biography breaks no factual ground, ''what Breslin has done, with his usual gritty perception, is revive a story of enormous consequence,'' David Oshinsky wrote in The New York Times Book Review. Rickey, ''a white man, is rarely mentioned when the great civil rights leaders are discussed. His politics were small-town Republican, his judgments often puritanical. He had numerous reasons for integrating baseball, Breslin reminds us, not all of them noble. But without his vision and persistence, civil rights may have taken an even slower, rougher path.''
9 P.M. (CBS) CRIMINAL MINDS The unit tracks a killer in San Diego who is stalking college students; Dallas Clark, a tight end with the Indianapolis Colts, has a guest stint as a local police officer. In ''Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior,'' at 10, the team searches for a predator who is kidnapping women who have just delivered babies. Kate Burton portrays the mother of a teenager who has recently been arrested.
9 P.M. (History) COUNTDOWN TO ZERO (2010) Centered on John F. Kennedy's 1961 address to the United Nations, this documentary from Lucy Walker, released theatrically last summer, uses interviews with scientists, writers and former world leaders like Jimmy Carter, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, Pervez Musharraf and Tony Blair to make a case for nuclear disarmament. ''This scarily convincing argument that the end, if not quite nigh, is at least foreseeable urges us to wake up and smell the highly enriched uranium,'' Jeannette Catsoulis wrote in The New York Times. ''By the end, however, all most of us will want to do is duck and cover.''
9:30 P.M. (Showtime); 10 P.M. (Showtime 2) THE FRANCHISE: A SEASON WITH THE SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS With the Major League Baseball season barely under way, this preview offers a glimpse of things to come as the Giants begin defending their World Series title. The show, which is being produced this season, has its official premiere on July 13.
10 P.M. (Bravo) TOP CHEF MASTERS This competition moves into its regular time slot as 12 successful chefs compete in elimination-style challenges for the title and $100,000 for charity. Curtis Stone is the host; James Oseland and Ruth Reichl are the judges. In this episode the R&B artist Kelis renders the verdict on a meat-theme test, and the husband-and-wife actors Christina Hendricks and Geoffrey Arend put the competitors through a 1960s contest.
10 P.M. (Oxygen) TORI & DEAN: STORIBOOK WEDDINGSTori Spelling and her husband, Dean McDermott, move from innkeeping to event planning in this reality series in which they help engaged couples fulfill their visions of the perfect wedding day, assisted by the art director and interior designer James McGowan. In Round 2 they plan nightclub nuptials for Emily, a ballroom dance instructor, and her beau of eight months, Levi, whose family she hasn't yet met. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY STRAND RELEASING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); BASEBALL (78%); TRAINS (78%); STALKING (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MOVIE REVIEWS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); BOOK REVIEWS (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); WRITERS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); ARRESTS (60%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (50%) ISRAEL (92%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



300 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: For Flushing and Its Waterfront, Time to Think Big

BYLINE: By JONATHAN VATNER

 BODY:
Flushing, Queens, home to one of the largest Asian populations in the United States, is one of the most crowded downtown areas in New York City. The Flushing Main Street stop on the No. 7 subway line was the busiest station outside of Manhattan in 2009, and 19 city bus lines stop downtown, where more than 40,000 people reside.
Yet there has been relatively little large-scale development in the neighborhood. The glassy towers that dominate other parts of the city are conspicuously absent -- and a municipal parking lot takes up five acres in the center of downtown.
''People come from China, and when they look at Flushing, they say, 'This is the way China was 15 years ago,' '' said Michael Meyer, the president of TDC Development, a subsidiary of the F&T Group, which plans to turn that parking lot into Flushing Commons, an $820 million, 1.8 million-square-foot mixed-use development. Mr. Meyer said he hoped to break ground within a year, and he estimated that construction would take three and a half years. It is one of several major developments that promise to refashion the neighborhood's landscape. 
''On every street and every block, there's new construction,'' said Dian Yu, the executive director of the Flushing Business Improvement District. ''It's amazing.''
Flushing Commons is to include 235,000 square feet of small-scale retail, 185,000 square feet of office space, about 600 condos, a 62,000-square-foot Y.M.C.A., a one-and-a-half-acre park and, to make up for the lost parking lot, 1,600 underground parking spaces. The project is a joint venture with the Rockefeller Group Development Corporation, which built Rockefeller Center.
Nearby, the F&T Group is also building a $125 million mixed-use development that will combine a 168-room Hyatt Place hotel with three levels of retail, underground parking and a separate tower for office space and serviced apartments. Groundbreaking is this week; construction should take three years.
A few blocks away, where Main Street ends at Northern Boulevard, the RKO Keith's Theater, designed by Thomas W. Lamb, may finally be given new life. The theater housed vaudeville acts and movies for more than half a century but has been sitting empty since the 1980s, despite the efforts of various developers.
''It's been a cancer in downtown Flushing for over 20 years,'' said Claire Shulman, the former borough president who is now chief executive of the Flushing Willets Point Corona Local Development Corporation.
Last year a developer, Patrick Thompson, acquired the theater by assuming a $20 million loan from Doral Bank; he plans to restore the landmarked lobby while building a $160 million mixed-use development that will include 357 rental apartments, 17,460 square feet of retail, a senior center and parking. The project, Mr. Thompson's largest, has received almost all of the necessary approvals and is on track for construction to begin this year, with an opening expected in 2014.
Mr. Thompson said there was a strong rental market in Flushing. ''There are rental buildings in Flushing, but they're mostly older and rent-stabilized,'' he said. ''A lot of the Asian population, when they want an upscale rental, have gone to Long Island City.''
Set back from the sidewalk, the apartment tower will reach 17 stories -- 175 feet -- making it higher than anything nearby. The historic lobby will be visible to passers-by through an undulating glass curtain.
''We want to create a new building that's reflective of the old,'' said Jay Valgora, the principal of Studio V architecture, who designed the project. ''The lobby will be on stage for all time, overlooking the community.''
Promising changes are on the horizon for the Flushing waterfront as well. College Point Boulevard, which runs along the inlet of Flushing Bay, is a busy roadway that is dangerous to pedestrians and populated by construction suppliers, auto-body shops, and a large U-Haul rental and storage operation.
''It's not a traditional urban waterfront,'' said Mr. Valgora, whom the Flushing Willets Point Corona development corporation hired to draw the plans for its transformation. ''A block away you have a vibrant commercial center. They're completely cut off from their waterfront with a chain-link fence.''
The first step of the plan, which recently began, includes pedestrian medians as well as trees and planters to beautify College Point Boulevard and make it safer, a process that should wrap up by the end of the year.
''We are turning it into a boulevard, rather than a heavily trafficked commercial street,'' Mrs. Shulman said. ''I think that will make a big difference in the appearance of the whole area, which is messy now.''
The development corporation is also working to change the zoning to C4-4 from C4-2, which would call for smaller building footprints and require less parking, thereby allowing for more open space along the waterfront.
These are just the first steps. Mr. Valgora foresees 1,800 to 2,800 residences, a waterfront esplanade and boardwalk lined with cafes and restaurants, and a series of parks.
''We really see it as a vibrant mixture,'' he said. ''It will resemble Singapore.''
Already the waterfront has one major new tenant -- perhaps the most salient evidence of Flushing's transformation up to now -- on a site that Muss Development Company has owned for more than two decades. Sky View Center, an 800,000-square-foot mall a few blocks west of the Main Street station, is now 75 percent leased, and has big-box stores like Target, Bed Bath & Beyond, BJ's Wholesale Club and Best Buy.
''Queens in general is dramatically under-retailed,'' said Michael Dana, the president of Onex Real Estate Partners, which is heading development on the Sky View project. Yet, Mr. Dana added, ''the local economy in Flushing is very strong.''
The demand for luxury condos has not proved quite as strong. Sky View Parc, the attached condominium towers with 448 units open and 660 planned for a second phase, is still mostly empty -- only 170 units have sold -- but Mr. Dana is confident that sales will improve when construction is complete this spring. ''I'm not the least bit disappointed,'' he said. ''We're seeing a tremendous pickup in sales.''
And the area is still in desperate need of affordable housing, Mrs. Shulman said. She is working on a plan to convert a municipal parking lot by the Long Island Rail Road station into housing, and at the same time improve access to the train platforms, which are difficult to find and not accessible to wheelchairs.
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has set aside $8.5 million for wheelchair-accessible elevators; Mrs. Shulman is hoping to receive the rest of the financing (more than $30 million) from federal sources.
''For a major commercial area like downtown Flushing,'' the lack of wheelchair access to the railroad ''is ridiculous,'' she said.
The success of most of these projects depends on large amounts of financing, which is far from certain in this economy. But the community leaders and developers say redevelopment is needed. Mr. Meyer, for one, is optimistic about the success of Flushing Commons.
''Flushing is a bridge between China and Korea and the United States,'' he said. ''As the economic center of gravity shifts to Asia, Flushing plays a greater role.''
Specifically, he sees a great demand for commercial space. Queens Crossing, a Flushing commercial center that F&T Group completed in 2008, sold out before construction began.
Mr. Yu, of the Flushing Business Improvement District, said he was happy that so much development was on the horizon but nervous about the practical effects in a neighborhood already congested with traffic. Already, he said, ''it can take you six to eight minutes for one block.''
He added, ''We're going to miss the parking spaces.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS:The bustling Main Street subway stop in Flushing, Queens, above. At left, the 800,000-square-foot Sky View Center has big-box stores and is 75 percent leased. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC MICHAEL JOHNSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: ROCKEFELLER GROUP DEVELOPMENT CORP (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



301 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2775 words

HEADLINE: As the Mountaintops Fall, a Coal Town Vanishes

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
LINDYTOWN, W.Va.
To reach a lost American place, here just a moment ago, follow a thin country road as it unspools across an Appalachian valley's grimy floor, past a coal operation or two, a church or two, a village called Twilight. Beware of the truck traffic. Watch out for that car-chasing dog.
After passing an abandoned union hall with its front door agape, look to the right for a solitary house, tidy, yellow and tucked into the stillness. This is nearly all that remains of a West Virginia community called Lindytown.
In the small living room, five generations of family portraits gaze upon Quinnie Richmond, 85, who has trouble summoning the memories, and her son, Roger, 62, who cannot forget them: the many children all about, enough to fill Mr. Cook's school bus every morning; the Sunday services at the simple church; the white laundry strung on clotheslines; the echoing clatter of evening horseshoes; the sense of home. 
But the coal that helped to create Lindytown also destroyed it. Here was the church; here was its steeple; now it's all gone, along with its people. Gone, too, are the surrounding mountaintops. To mine the soft rock that we burn to help power our light bulbs, our laptops, our way of life, heavy equipment has stripped away the trees, the soil, the rock -- what coal companies call the ''overburden.''
Now, the faint, mechanical beeps and grinds from above are all that disturb the Lindytown quiet, save for the occasional, seam-splintering blast.
A couple of years ago, a subsidiary of Massey Energy, which owns a sprawling mine operation behind and above the Richmond home, bought up Lindytown. Many of its residents signed Massey-proffered documents in which they also agreed not to sue, testify against, seek inspection of or ''make adverse comment'' about coal-mining operations in the vicinity.
You might say that both parties were motivated. Massey preferred not to have people living so close to its mountaintop mining operations. And the residents, some with area roots deep into the 19th century, preferred not to live amid a dusty industrial operation that was altering the natural world about them. So the Greens sold, as did the Cooks, and the Workmans, and the Webbs ...
But Quinnie Richmond's husband, Lawrence -- who died a few months ago, at 85 -- feared that leaving the home they built in 1947 might upset his wife, who has Alzheimer's. He and his son Roger, a retired coal miner who lives next door, chose instead to sign easements granting the coal company certain rights over their properties. In exchange for also agreeing not to make adverse comment, the two Richmond households received $25,000 each, Roger Richmond recalls.
''Hush money,'' he says, half-smiling.
As Mr. Richmond speaks, the mining on the mountain behind him continues to transform, if not erase, the woodsy stretches he explored in boyhood. It has also exposed a massive rock that almost seems to be teetering above the Richmond home. Some days, an anxious Mrs. Richmond will check on the rock from her small kitchen window, step away, then come back to check again.
And again.
A Dictator of Destiny
Here in Boone County, coal rules. The rich seams of bituminous black have dictated the region's destiny for many generations: through the advent of railroads; the company-controlled coal camps; the bloody mine wars; the increased use of mechanization and surface mining, including mountaintop removal; the related decrease in jobs.
The county has the largest surface-mining project (the Massey operation) in the state and the largest number of coal-company employees (more than 3,600). Every year it receives several million dollars in tax severance payments from the coal industry, and every June it plays host to the West Virginia Coal Festival, with fireworks, a beauty pageant, a memorial service for dead miners, and displays of the latest mining equipment. Without coal, says Larry V. Lodato, the director of the county's Community and Economic Development Corporation, ''You might as well turn out the lights and leave.''
In recent years, surface mining has eclipsed underground mining as the county's most productive method. This includes mountaintop removal -- or, as the industry prefers to call it, mountaintop mining -- a now-commonplace technique that remains startling in its capacity to change things.
Various government regulations require that coal companies return the stripped area to its ''approximate original contour,'' or ''reclaim'' the land for development in a state whose undulating topography can thwart plans for even a simple parking lot. As a result, the companies often dump the removed earth into a nearby valley to create a plateau, and then spray this topsy-turvy land with seed, fertilizer and mulch.
The coal industry maintains that by removing some mountaintops from the ''Mountain State,'' it is creating developable land that makes the state more economically viable. State and coal officials point to successful developments on land reclaimed by surface mining, developments that they say have led to the creation of some 13,000 jobs.
But Ken Ward Jr., a reporter for The Charleston Gazette, has pointed out that two-fifths of these jobs are seasonal or temporary; a third of the full-time jobs are at one project, in the northern part of the state; and the majority of the jobs are far from southern West Virginia, where most of the mountaintop removal is occurring, and where unemployment is most dire. In Boone County, development on reclaimed land has basically meant the building of the regional headquarters for the county's dominant employer -- Massey Energy.
And with reclamation, there is also loss.
''I'm not familiar at all with Lindytown,'' says Mr. Lodato, the county's economic development director. ''I know it used to be a community, and it's close to Twilight.''
A Fighter
About 10 miles from Lindytown, outside a drab convenience store in the unincorporated town of Van, a rake-thin woman named Maria Gunnoe climbs into a maroon Ford pickup that is adorned with a bumper sticker reading: ''Mountains Matter -- Organize.'' The daughter, granddaughter and sister of union coal miners, Ms. Gunnoe is 42, with sorrowful dark eyes, long black hair and a desire to be on the road only between shift changes at the local mining operations -- and only with her German shepherd and her gun.
Less than a decade ago, Ms. Gunnoe was working as a waitress, just trying to get along, when a mountaintop removal operation in the small map dot of Bob White disrupted her ''home place.'' It filled the valley behind her house, flooded her property, contaminated her well and transformed her into a fierce opponent of mountaintop removal. Through her work with the Ohio Valley Environmental Coalition, she has become such an effective environmental advocate that in 2009 she received the prestigious Goldman Environmental Prize. But no one threw a parade for her in Boone County, where some deride her as anti-coal; that is, anti-job.
Ms. Gunnoe turns onto the two-lane road, Route 26, and heads toward the remains of Lindytown. On her right stands Van High School, her alma mater, where D. Ray White, the gifted and doomed Appalachian dancer, used to kick up his heels at homecomings. On her left, the community center where dozens of coal-company workers disrupted a meeting of environmentalists back in 2007.
''There was a gentleman who pushed me backward, over my daughter, who was about 12 or 13, and crying,'' Ms. Gunnoe later recalls. ''I pushed him back, and he filed charges against me for battery. He was 250 pounds, and I had a broken arm.''
A jury acquitted her within minutes.
Ms. Gunnoe drives on. Past the long-closed Grill bar, its facade marred by graffiti. Past an out-of-context clot of land that rises hundreds of feet in the air -- ''a valley fill,'' she says, that has been ''hydroseeded'' with fast-growing, non-native plants to replace the area's lost natural growth: its ginseng root, its goldenseal, it hickory and oak, maple and poplar, black cherry and sassafras.
''And it will never be back,'' she says.
Ms. Gunnoe has a point. James Burger, a professor emeritus of forestry and soil science at Virginia Tech University, said the valley fill process often sends the original topsoil to the bottom and crushed rock from deeper in the ground to the top. With the topography and soil properties altered, Dr. Burger says, native plants and trees do not grow as well.
''You have hundreds of species of flora and fauna that have acclimated to the native, undisturbed conditions over the millennia,'' he says. ''And now you're inverting the geologic profile.''
Dr. Burger says that he and other scientists have developed a reclamation approach that uses native seeds, trees, topsoil and selected rock material to help restore an area's natural diversity, at no additional expense. Unfortunately, he says, these methods have not been adopted in most Appalachian states, including West Virginia.
Past a coal operation called a loadout, an oversized Tinker Toy structure where coal is crushed and loaded on trucks and rail cars. Past the house cluster called Bandytown, home of Leo Cook, 75, the former school bus driver who once collected Roger Richmond and the other kids from Lindytown, where he often spent evenings at a horseshoe pit, now overgrown.
''We got to have coal,'' says Mr. Cook, a retired miner. ''What's going to keep the power on? But I believe with all my heart that there's a better way to get that coal.''
Ms. Gunnoe continues deeper into the mud-brown landscape, where the fleeting appearance of trucks animates the flattened mountaintops. On her right, a dark, winding stream damaged by mining; on her left, several sediment-control ponds that filter out pollutants from the runoff of mining operations. Past the place called Twilight, a jumble of homes and trailers, where the faded sign of the old Twilight Super Market still promises Royal Crown Cola for sale.
Soon she passes the abandoned hall for Local 8377 of the United Mine Workers of America, empty since some underground mining operations shut down a couple of decades ago. Its open door beckons you to examine the papers piled on the floor: a Wages, Lost Time, and Expense Voucher booklet from 1987; the burial fund's bylaws; canceled checks bearing familiar surnames.
On, finally, to Lindytown.
The Company Line
According to a statement from Shane Harvey, the general counsel for Massey, this is what happened: Many of Lindytown's residents were either retired miners or their widows and descendants who welcomed the opportunity to move to places more metropolitan or with easier access to medical facilities. Interested in selling their properties, they contacted Massey, which began making offers in December 2008 -- offers that for the most part were accepted.
''It is important to note that none of these properties had to be bought,'' Mr. Harvey said. ''The entire mine plan could have been legally mined without the purchase of these homes. We agreed to purchase the properties as an additional precaution.''
When asked to elaborate, Mr. Harvey responded, in writing, that Massey voluntarily bought the properties ''as an additional backup to the state and federal regulations'' that protect people who live near mining operations.
James Smith, 68, a retired coal miner from Lindytown, says the company's statement is true, as far as it goes. Yes, Lindytown had become home mostly to retired union miners and their families; when the Robin Hood No. 8 mine shut down, for example, his three sons had to leave the state to work. And yes, some people approached Massey about selling their homes.
But, Mr. Smith says, many residents wanted to leave Lindytown only because the mountaintop operations above had ruined the quality of life below.
His family went back generations here. He married a local woman, raised kids, became widowed and married again. A brother lived in one house, a sister lived in another, and nieces, nephews and cousins were all around. And there was this God-given setting, where he could wander for days, hunting raccoon or searching for ginseng.
But when the explosions began, dust filled the air. ''You could wash your car today, and tomorrow you could write your name on it in the dust,'' he says. ''It was just unpleasant to live in that town. Period.''
Massey was a motivated buyer, he argues, given that it was probably cheaper to buy out a small community than to deal with all the complaint-generated inspections, or the possible lawsuits over silica dust and ''fly rock.''
''Hell, what they paid for that wasn't a drop in the bucket,'' he says.
Massey did not elaborate on why it bought out Lindytown, though general concerns about public health have been mounting. In blocking another West Virginia mountaintop-removal project earlier this year, the Environmental Protection Agency cited research suggesting that health disparities in the Appalachian region are ''concentrated where surface coal mining activity takes place.''
In the end, Mr. Smith says, he would not be living 150 miles away, far from relations and old neighbors, if mountaintop removal hadn't ruined Lindytown. ''You might as well take the money and get rid of your torment,'' he says, adding that he received more than $300,000 for his property. ''After they destroyed our place, they done us a favor and bought it.''
Memories, What's Left
Ms. Gunnoe pulls up to one of the last houses in Lindytown, the tidy yellow one, and visits with Quinnie and Roger Richmond. He uses his words to re-animate the community he knew.
For many years, his grandfather was the preacher at the small church down the road, where the ringing of a bell gave fair warning that Sunday service was about to begin. And his grandmother lived in the house still standing next door; she toiled in her garden well past 100, growing the kale, spinach and mustard greens that she loved so much.
His father, Lawrence, joined the military in World War II after his older brother, Carson, was killed in Sicily. He returned, married Quinnie, and built this house. Before long, he became a section foreman in the mines, beloved by his men in part because of Quinnie's fried-apple pies.
After graduating from Van High School -- that's his senior photograph, there on the wall -- Roger Richmond followed his father into the mines. He married, had children, divorced, made do when the local mine shut down, eventually retired and, in 2001, set up his mobile home beside his parents' house.
By now, things had changed. With the local underground mine shut down, there were nowhere near as many jobs, or kids. And this powder from the mountaintops was settling on everything, turning to brown paste in the rain. People no long hung their whites on the clotheslines.
Soon, rumors of buyouts from Massey became fact, as neighbors began selling and moving away. ''Some of them were tired of fighting it,'' Mr. Richmond says. ''Of having to put up with all the dust. Plus, you couldn't get out into the hills the way you used to.''
One example. Mr. Richmond's Uncle Carson, killed in World War II, is buried in one of the small cemeteries scattered about the mountains. If he wanted to pay his respects, in accordance with government regulations for active surface-mining areas, he would have to make an appointment with a coal company, be certified in work site safety, don a construction helmet and be escorted by a coal-company representative.
In the end, the Richmonds decided to sell various land rights to Massey, but remain in Lindytown, as the homes of longtime neighbors were boarded up and knocked down late last year, and as looters arrived at all hours of the day to steal the windows, the wiring, the pillars from Elmer Smith's front porch -- even the peaches, every one of them, growing from trees on the Richmond property.
''They was good peaches, too,'' says Mr. Richmond.
''I like peaches,'' says his mother.
Would Lindytown have died anyway? Would it have died even without the removal of its surrounding mountaintops? These are the questions that Bill Raney, the president of the West Virginia Coal Association, raises. Sometimes, he says, depopulation is part of the natural order of things. People move to be closer to hospitals, or restaurants, or the Wal-Mart. There is also that West Virginia truism, he adds:
''When the coal's gone, you go to where the next coal seam is.''
Of course, in the case of Lindytown, the coal is still here; it's the people who are mostly gone. Now, when darkness comes to this particular hollow, you can see a small light shining from the kitchen window of a solitary, yellow house -- and, sometimes, a face, peering out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Quinnie Richmond's house is nearly all that's left of a town bought up by a mining company. (A1)
At top, Quinnie Richmond, 85, left, is one of the last residents of Lindytown, W.Va.
Maria Gunnoe is an opponent of mountaintop mining. Above, Leo Cook was a lifelong resident of Lindytown, where there was once a church that became a union hall
along Route 26 in Boone County, W.Va., there are signs of mining activity, including a loadout facility, where coal is crushed and loaded on trucks and rail cars. More photographs at nytimes.com/national.
 The village of Twilight is near Lindytown. The market there is now closed and some residents wonder if the town will be the next to go. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAP (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (90%); COAL MINING (90%); MINES & MINING (89%); SURFACE MINING (77%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (76%); CHILDREN (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (72%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%)

COMPANY: MASSEY ENERGY CO (92%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (54%)

TICKER: FLR (FRA) (92%); ANR (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



302 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
PRO-DEMOCRACY GATHERING
IS BROKEN UP IN SWAZILAND
The police in Swaziland, the last absolute monarchy in Africa, squelched a long-planned pro-democracy rally, firing water cannons and tear gas into crowds in Manzini, the nation's largest city. PAGE A5
NUDITY IN BARCELONA 
In Barcelona, Spain, where nudity has been legal, a committee of the city council approved a resolution empowering the police to stop naked or improperly dressed people and to require the people to cover themselves or face fines. PAGE A8
U.N. PRAISES PALESTINIANS
In a report, the United Nations praised the Palestinian Authority's efforts at strengthening its institutions, describing aspects of its administration as sufficient for an independent state. PAGE A12
NATIONAL
CALIFORNIA GAS PRICES
REQUIRE STRATEGY
Even when gasoline is not near its peak, California almost always has the highest average gas prices in the continental United States because of a combination of high state and local taxes and stringent state fuel regulations. This forces Californians to be more calculating than drivers in other states about where to buy gas. PAGE A14
CHEAPEST GAS IN TUCSON
One Web site, which aggregates prices sent in by consumers at filling stations across the country, has regularly pinpointed Tucson as having the nation's cheapest average price for a gallon of regular, partly because of relatively low state and local gas taxes. PAGE A14
G.O.P. ROUNDS UP VOTES
House Republicans scurried to secure the votes needed for a bill that would keep the government financed for the rest of the fiscal year, delaying action by one day to abide by their self-imposed rule to air all legislation publicly for three days before a vote. PAGE A16
NEW YORK
EMPIRE STATE BUILDING PART OF PLAN FOR PUBLIC COMPANY
The Malkin family, which controls the Empire State Building, is planning to create a publicly traded real estate company featuring the building, according to three executives who have been briefed on the plans. PAGE A20
PRAISE FOR THE GOVERNOR
Two weeks after lawmakers passed the state's first on-time budget in five years, Gov. Andrew Cuomo is not only enjoying soaring approval ratings, but also basking in the adulation of the leaders of the Senate and the Assembly. PAGE A21
BUSINESS
CORN AND SOY DEMANDS
RAISE EROSION RISK IN IOWA
Long in decline, erosion is once again becoming a threat to farmers in Iowa because of an aggressive push to plant on more land, changing weather patterns and inadequate enforcement of protections, scientists and environmentalists say. PAGE B1
RECOVERY SLOW AT MORGAN
Despite a flurry of management changes and a hiring spree to bolster its trading business, Morgan Stanley's stock price is lower than when James P. Gorman, the firm's chief executive, took over in early 2010. Some shareholders are losing patience with Mr. Gorman. PAGE B1
SOKOL'S DEALINGS EXPOSED
to a regulatory finding, David L. Sokol, a former top deputy to Warren E. Buffett, knew more about the interest of the chemical manufacturer Lubrizol in a potential deal with Berkshire Hathaway than previously disclosed. PAGE B1
OBITUARIES
CHARLES LAUFER, 87
Charles Laufer, who as a high school teacher in 1955 created magazines aimed at teenage girls desperate to know more about the lives of their favorite movie and television stars, died last week. PAGE B17
Sports
BASEBALL PLAYERS TRAIN
WITH MIXED MARTIAL ARTS
Mixed martial arts may be illegal as a competitive sport in some states, but several baseball players are incorporating its fighting methods into their training routines. PAGE B15
JAPAN'S OPENING DAY
The return of baseball in Japan has been infused with more poignancy this year as the country struggles to right itself after a catastrophic earthquake and tsunami leveled northeastern Japan a month and a day ago. For weeks, owners, players and fans debated whether to start the season on time when so many Japanese were still suffering. PAGE b12
STUDY ON GAME-FIXING
The indictments of 10 people in a point-shaving scheme, including two former University of San Diego basketball players and a former assistant, raised a vexing question: how often are college basketball games fixed? PAGE B16
Arts
FIRST FAMILY ADDS
ANOTHER AUTHOR
In the fall of 2007, while helping her ambitious older half-brother, Barack Obama, campaign for president, Maya Soetoro-Ng holed up in the basement of the Obamas' Chicago home to pursue a long-held ambition of her own: writing a children's book. But the path she has chosen, in her family at least, is crowded. PAGE C1
DEFENDING GRAMMYS CUTS
The decision by the group that organizes the Grammy Awards to eliminate nearly one-third of the award categories, is meeting resistance from musicians and record producers. To counter that sentiment, Neil R. Portnow, the president of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, which administers the Grammys, and other academy officials have gone on the road to meet with members of the academy's 12 regional chapters. PAGE C3
Dining
WISE FOR SOME RESTAURANTS,
COUPONS DRAIN OTHERS
Discount sites like Groupon, BlackboardEats and VillageVines insist that their own Web gimmick will counter post-recession blahs with new-customer buzz while building repeat business. As millions of hungry bargain-hunters click on these dining deals, restaurant owners say it is unclear whether the great online social-coupon rush is the future of American eating or a new, faster way to go out of business. PAGE D1
Op-ed
THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A23
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FUEL TAX (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BUDGETS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); CITIES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (63%); WEATHER (60%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (50%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SPAIN (94%); SWAZILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



303 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Do-Nothing Congress as a Cure

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
A trick question: If Congress takes no action in coming years, what will happen to the budget deficit?
It will shrink -- and shrink a lot. This simple fact may offer the best hope for deficit reduction.
As federal law currently stands, some significant tax increases are set to take effect in coming years. The most important is the scheduled expiration of the Bush tax cuts at the end of 2012. 
Of course, both parties favor the permanent extension of most of those tax cuts -- the ones applying to income below $250,000. Both parties also oppose big cuts to the military, Social Security and Medicare, at least in the short term. Unfortunately, the deficit is likely to remain frighteningly large over the next decade without either cuts to those programs or tax increases.
Democratic and Republican leaders alike dance around this point. President Obama may call for ''tax reform'' in his deficit speech on Wednesday. He may even suggest that tax reform can reduce the deficit. He is very unlikely to explain which taxes will go up in his vision of reform, aside from some of those on the affluent. And while those increases will certainly help, they're not enough.
The Republicans' numbers are even fuzzier. The recent plan from Paul Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, includes highly specific tax cuts for the affluent and still claims to reduce the deficit long before his proposed overhaul of Medicare begins. How? Partly by eliminating tax breaks -- that is, raising taxes -- although Mr. Ryan doesn't say which ones. The savings simply appear under the heading ''Tax reform.''
It's as if tax increases were a mere technicality in any deficit-reduction plan. In reality, finding a way to raise taxes may well be the central political problem facing the United States.
As countries become richer, their citizens tend to want more public services, be it a strong military or a decent safety net in retirement. This country is no exception. Yet our political culture is an exception. It has made most tax increases, even to pay for benefits people want, unthinkable.
This is where the Bush tax cuts come in. They have created a way for inertia to be fiscally responsible.
They are scheduled to expire on Dec. 31 of next year, not long after the 2012 election. If Republicans win the White House and both houses of Congress, they will probably extend all the tax cuts, come what may for the deficit. If Mr. Obama wins re-election and Democrats control Congress, they are likely to extend the cuts on income below $250,000.
But if Mr. Obama wins and Republicans control the House, the Senate or both -- an outcome that many analysts, at least for now, consider the most likely one -- things could get interesting.
Republicans have said that they will not extend only part of the Bush cuts. Late last year, when the cuts first expired, Mr. Obama yielded to Republican demands to extend all the cuts (while insisting that they expire again after 2012). He was right to do so, in my view, given the fragility of the economic recovery.
Next year, however, the economy should be stronger. When the economy is in good shape, modest tax changes often have little effect on growth. Look at the 1993 Clinton tax increase, which didn't prevent the 1990s boom. Or consider the Bush tax cuts, which were followed by the slowest decade of economic growth since World War II.
If Mr. Obama wins re-election, he could simply refuse to sign any budget-busting tax cut for the rich -- who, after all, have received much larger pretax raises than any other income group in recent years and have also had their tax rates fall more. Republicans, for their part, could again refuse to pass any partial extension.
And just like that, on Jan. 1, 2013, the Clinton-era tax rates would return.
This change, by itself, would solve about 75 percent of the deficit problem over the next five years. The rest could come from spending cuts, both for social programs and the military.
Over the longer term -- 20 years -- letting all of the Bush cuts lapse would close only about 40 percent of the budget gap. But 40 percent is a great start. No one is seriously suggesting that all deficit reduction should come from higher taxes. Much of it will have to come from slowing the growth rate of medical spending, which is the main cause of the long-term deficit.
To be clear, the end of the Bush cuts is not the ideal way to raise taxes. A better approach would be to close some tax loopholes while possibly even reducing rates. The tax code would then become simpler. Businesses and households would have to waste less effort trying to qualify for tax breaks.
Economists from the right and the left -- from President Bush's tax commission and Mr. Obama's deficit commission -- favor this idea. Politicians, including Mr. Obama and Mr. Ryan, say they do, too.
The problem is that many of the biggest loopholes are politically popular. Saying you favor the vague principle of tax reform is easy. Coming out in favor of cutting the mortgage-interest deduction -- or the tax exclusion for employer-provided health insurance or the corporate tax break for new machinery -- is not so easy.
A small, bipartisan group of senators, known as the Gang of Six, is now working to do exactly that: devise a credible, specific deficit proposal. White House aides say Mr. Obama supports their overall effort. But they still face a tough task.
Ultimately, deficit reduction will have to involve cutting programs or raising taxes, if not both. Voters don't particularly like either. So keep your eye on Jan. 1, 2013. The best hope for a solution may be the possibility that the two parties can't agree to a solution.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The budget plan Representative Paul Ryan is championing leaves out some details about eliminating tax breaks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 President Obama has expressed support for some proposals to reduce the budget deficit, but he has been vague on specifics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); TAX REFORM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



304 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: The Budget Battles, the Sequel: The Price of Ill-Conceived Cuts

 BODY:
Mayor Vincent Gray of Washington was so angry that the budget deal prohibited his city from spending its own money on abortion that he blocked traffic outside the Capitol, getting arrested in the process.
His rage was a sharp departure from the general self-congratulation of Democratic leaders and President Obama's failure to tell the truth about the budget deal for this year: It ushers in a denuded era of loss to vital government services, mostly at the expense of the most vulnerable. If Mr. Obama and the Democrats believe in the promise of his campaign -- that government must do what individuals cannot for themselves -- they need to summon some new fighting strength.
The bill contains enormous reductions in spending over the next six months -- $38.5 billion over current spending, and another $40 billion below the amounts Mr. Obama had requested for the year. The withdrawal of that much money will cause significant damage to the economic recovery -- neutralizing, in essence, much of the stimulative effect of last year's payroll tax cut. 
But beyond that, the bill damages many of the government's most important programs and will hurt those on the economy's lowest rungs. Many of those cuts, in particular, satisfy ancient Republican ideological urges but have little or no effect on the long-term budget deficit.
We do not advocate voting against the bill, unlike those on the right who are furious that the bill leaves standing federal agencies that they wanted to demolish. Doing so would cause another shutdown tailspin.
It would also fail to recognize that Democrats kept the bill from being unimaginably worse by taking out some of the Tea Party's ideological demands and minimizing the number of discretionary cuts. Democrats actually increased investment slightly in several areas.
But voting ''aye'' reluctantly is very different from celebrating the compromise, as Mr. Obama did on Friday night, or as Senate Democratic leaders did on Tuesday. They said the overall cut of $78.5 billion from the president's request would ''save taxpayers money and have a real impact.''
Instead of adopting the Republican language and argument, Democrats should be deploring it, pointing out that the deal was the result of extortionate pressure from the House and represents poor economic judgment during a nascent recovery.
To cite a few of many examples, it cuts $1.6 billion, or 16 percent, from the Environmental Protection Agency's current spending. The agency has been a particular obsession among House Republicans who complain about its regulation of pollution from power plants and mining, all of which will have to be reduced through these cuts.
All of the $2.9 billion that President Obama proposed for high-speed rail was cut, ending, for now, a dream of bringing transportation into the new century. Can Republicans actually prefer to consign Americans to crowded airports and choked highways?
Money to prevent the spread of H.I.V., hepatitis and other communicable diseases was cut by $1 billion, and community health care centers lost $600 million. The program that provides low-income nutrition assistance will lose $504 million.
Foreign aid was sharply reduced, including $379 million to a fund that helps countries create democracy and supports Middle East peace negotiations.
Lawmakers used the bill to achieve long-sought ideological goals like attacking the paltry sums spent on foreign aid, including eliminating White House czars for climate control and health care reform, removing the gray wolf from the endangered-species list, defunding insurance vouchers and cooperatives from health care reform, and reducing money for family planning.
A plan to allow employer-sponsored health insurance vouchers, strongly opposed by business, was killed. The bill, once again, bans transfers of detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States.
Democrats were able to increase money for Head Start, Race to the Top education reform, and financial reform, among other areas -- a welcome break from the trend. But unless they begin to make a more forceful case against the trend itself, it will only gather in force.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); EXTORTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); ABORTION (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); TAX LAW (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); WAR & CONFLICT (55%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



305 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: LOBBYISTS GAINED KEY CONCESSIONS IN BUDGET DEAL

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At a quarter till midnight last Friday, with a deal to avert a government shutdown barely an hour old, Senator Harry Reid phoned a fellow Democratic senator, Ron Wyden, at home and startled him with some bad news. ''You lost free-choice vouchers,'' Mr. Wyden recalls Mr. Reid telling him.
Even delivered in shorthand, the call's meaning was clear to Mr. Wyden: a health care plan he had succeeded in getting passed months earlier despite furious lobbying by big business and labor had been pulled out of the blue and killed as part of the broader budget deal struck between the White House and Congress. What was most perplexing was that it had little to do with budgets or government shutdowns. 
''I was flabbergasted, just flabbergasted,'' Mr. Wyden, of Oregon, said Tuesday in an interview, describing the demise of a plan that would have allowed some 300,000 workers to pick their own insurance coverage through employer-financed vouchers.
With $38 billion in cuts on the line in a $3.5 trillion budget, the clash over federal spending played out in numbers so big that most standard calculators had trouble tracking all the zeros. But in the end, a handful of relatively small-bore line items affecting particular industries attracted some of the most aggressive lobbying behind the scenes, as business interests, health care providers and others fought to hold on to, or kill, proposals that affected their bottom line.
Much public attention focused on the social issues that appeared in the spending bill in the final weeks as social conservatives tried to use it to advance their causes, particularly the unsuccessful effort by abortion opponents to cut the financing of Planned Parenthood. In the end, the budget agreement reached late Friday night banned the District of Columbia from using its own money to provide abortions for low-income women in the city -- a measure with a bigger social impact than fiscal.
But there was also intense but ultimately unsuccessful lobbying by General Electric and other military contractors to revive financing for an alternate engine for a costly jet fighter project. Proponents of tougher regulations for the politically influential and beleaguered commercial college industry succeeded, for now, in beating back an effort to block restrictions on how the schools get federal aid.
An analysis by the Congressional Budget Office found that the Wyden proposal had no short-term impact on federal spending and could actually save money over the next four years.
The plan to allow some employees to ''opt out'' of their employer-sponsored plans and choose their own coverage drew opposition from an unusual alliance of unions and businesses. Supporters said the vouchers would give employees more options and spur competition in the marketplace. Critics contended that younger, healthier employees would leave the plans and make insurance costlier for older, less healthy workers.
The American Benefits Council -- a group that represents employers and insurers and spent nearly $1 million on federal lobbying last year -- wrote its members that the Wyden proposal would have a ''destabilizing'' impact on employer insurance plans. The A.F.L.-C.I.O., which employs a formidable Washington lobbying force, warned that the proposal would create a ''death spiral'' of higher costs.
But the measure also had strong supporters. Charles Kolb, president of the Committee for Economic Development, said Tuesday that Mr. Wyden, in taking a different tack to managing health care costs, ''was trying to introduce the type of structural reform that the system is crying out for.''
The measure did make it into the final health care plan signed by President Obama last year -- only to be cut at the eleventh hour in Friday night's budget agreement. ''This is a lost opportunity,'' Mr. Kolb said.
So who axed the program?
''I wish I knew,'' Mr. Wyden said. ''Everyone at the table says that someone else brought it up. They all say, 'It wasn't me.' ''
Democrats and administration officials insisted Tuesday in interviews that Republican leaders had moved to get rid of the Wyden plan. They acknowledge privately that were not in a position to fight it that aggressively, given that it was opposed by business and labor, and that agreeing to kill the plan was seen as a way of staving off other possible cuts in health care financing.
''There's no question that eliminating this provision wouldn't have been our first choice,'' said an Obama administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity in discussing private negotiations. ''But these were tough, tough negotiations, and obviously no one got everything they wanted.''
Michael Steel, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner, said ''the program was eliminated because it costs jobs -- and jobs are the American people's top priority.''
Mr. Wyden said that regardless of who brought it up in the White House-Congressional negotiations, he suspects that the group driving the elimination of his plan was the Business Roundtable, a powerful lobbying force made up of chief executives from the country's biggest companies. The Roundtable, which spent more than $8.2 million lobbying on a range of health care and financial issues last year, had come out strongly against the idea of letting employees pick their own insurance plans.
''This is a textbook case of the special interests prevailing -- Exhibit A,'' Mr. Wyden said of the demise of his health care voucher plan. ''Everyone knows the Business Roundtable wanted this killed, and now they can go back with a trophy to say they protected business as usual.''
Executives from the Roundtable did not respond to voicemails or e-mails on Tuesday inquiring about the issue.
But even as Mr. Wyden was looking for ways on Tuesday to revive his voucher plan, the Business Roundtable was announcing a separate agreement with the Obama administration to sign on to a ''Partnership for Patients Pledge'' intended to show commitment to health care.
''We applaud the administration,'' said former Gov. John Engler of Michigan, president of the Business Roundtable, ''for taking this proactive step to bring together a diverse group of stakeholders -- all of us committed to, and invested in, America's health care system -- to measurably improve health care quality.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Ron Wyden's health care plan was a casualty of the budget deal reached last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (69%); ABORTION (68%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (61%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (91%); HARRY REID (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



306 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: The Budget Battles, the Sequel: Tax and Spending Myths and Realities

 BODY:
Here are two numbers to keep in mind when thinking about the House Republicans' budget plan: They want to cut spending on government programs over the next decade by $4.3 trillion. And they want to cut tax revenues over the same period by $4.2 trillion.
Government spending needs to be brought under control. But slashing vital services just to pay for more tax cuts is bad public policy and bad economics. 
It won't fix the deficit, no matter what the Republicans claim.
We've seen this play before. President Ronald Reagan promised that tax cuts would spur more economic growth and pay for themselves. During his tenure, the deficit hit what was then a peacetime high of 6 percent of gross domestic product, and he eventually decided that he had no other alternative but to raise taxes to try to close the gap.
The Clinton years disproved the notion that higher taxes would inevitably stifle economic growth, or cost politicians their jobs. Taxes were raised in 1993, including higher income tax rates on the wealthiest. The economy was strong, and the stock market surged. Taxes were then cut in 1997 in a deal with the Republican-controlled Congress, but by then the combination of higher tax rates on the wealthy, a strong economy and a rising stock market was boosting revenues significantly.
By the end of President Bill Clinton's term, the federal budget had been in surplus for four straight years.
President George W. Bush and Congress undid that progress with $1.65 trillion in tax cuts, heavily skewed to high earners. The economic recovery of the Bush years was extraordinarily weak by historical standards. By early 2009, shortly before Mr. Obama took office, the Congressional Budget Office projected a budget deficit for that year of more than $1 trillion.
These are the economic facts, which Americans need to hear. The Republicans certainly won't tell anyone. And, so far, the Democrats haven't had the political courage to challenge them head-on.
President Obama's proposed budget for fiscal-year 2012 does call for a mix of tax increases and tax cuts, but he hasn't made a serious effort to explain the need for substantially more revenue.
The bigger test will come on Wednesday, when Mr. Obama presents a long-term deficit reduction alternative to the Republican proposal. It must include significant sources of revenue, as well as defense cuts and a long-term plan for bringing spending on health care and other entitlements in line with revenues.
As a matter of fairness, raising income taxes must start with requiring the richest Americans -- who have been the biggest beneficiaries of Bush-era tax cuts -- to pay more. But even that won't dig the country out of its hole. The middle class is also going to have to pay higher taxes. That is the only way to pay for needed services, tackle the deficit and slow the borrowing and the rise in interest payments.
That means higher income taxes further down the income scale than Mr. Obama has previously called for, and new sources of tax revenue, like energy taxes or a financial-transactions tax or a value-added tax.
Those details are the easy part. More than anything, Mr. Obama must change the political debate, by rebutting, once and for all, the tax-cuts-above-all ideology that has gotten this country into this deep mess.
Here are a few more numbers to consider: Stimulus spending since Mr. Obama took office -- including tax cuts -- accounts for about $600 billion of the current $14.2 trillion in accumulated debt. The Bush-era tax cuts coupled with major new spending for two wars and a Medicare drug benefit, have added $3.2 trillion to the debt.
Mr. Obama must make the case for tax increases, based on reality, not ideology. Then, and only then, can a serious debate on the deficit begin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); POLITICS (75%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (75%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



307 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ABROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Hope Sprouting Amid Studio's Decay

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
ROME -- It was a sun-kissed spring day here, warm, with swarms of camera-toting tourists congregating in the Piazza del Popolo, fruit and vegetable vendors selling puntarelle at the market stalls in the Campo de' Fiori, and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi poised to go on trial for abuse of power and paying an underage girl for sex.
The usual.
At the front desk of Cinecitta, the fabled film studio, clips from ''Death in Venice'' and ''La Dolce Vita'' flickered on a video monitor above the heads of receptionists. Coltish teenagers in Nike Frees and Marcello Mastroianni sunglasses decanted from a schoolbus outside for a tour of the studio's back lots, where the Italian version of ''Big Brother'' is taped. 
Lately this country has become its own reality show, as Italians often lament. The situation has gotten to the point where nobody even seems to find it especially odd that the prime minister, like an Italian version of Miriam from Forest Hills or Dave from Harlem calling into WFAN, regularly phones television chat shows to rant or complain about how the host is portraying some government measure.
Not long ago Giovanni Floris, the host of ''Ballaro'' went so far as to refuse to take Mr. Berlusconi's call. Silvio from the Chigi Palace had already had his turn, Mr. Floris declared, and if the head of the Italian government had something more to say, he was welcome to come onto the show in person and say it.
This now passes for gallows comedy in the land of Plautus and Boccaccio, where Mr. Berlusconi's administration, having endlessly chipped away at the national arts budget and the fund for opera, music, theater and film, pays the standard lip service to culture as the country's pride and joy and economic engine. The second anniversary of the earthquake that devastated L'Aquila came and went this month, and, shamefully, the historic and formerly bustling center of that city still remains nearly empty. A concert hall designed by Shigeru Ban, the Japanese architect, which was to have opened there on the anniversary, has been delayed time and again by the usual money and organizational afflictions.
The conductor Riccardo Muti made news last month when, during the premiere of ''Nabucco'' here in Rome, he led the audience in a spontaneous encore of ''Va, Pensiero.'' (''O, my homeland, so beautiful and lost'' goes one of the relevant lyrics.) The occasion was a celebration of the 150th anniversary of Italian unity, and the encore was the crowd's protest against arts cuts and the country's general state of turmoil, Mr. Muti explained afterward, comparing the event to ''something out of the Visconti film 'Senso,' '' thereby confirming that for Italians life has come to imitate fiction.
Luchino Visconti and his ilk, among them Federico Fellini, Vittorio de Sica, Bernardo Bertolucci, William Wyler, Joseph L. Mankiewicz, Martin Scorsese -- the list goes on and on -- have over the decades made Cinecitta the most storied film production center in Europe, but until a couple of weeks ago it too was an Italian landmark in crisis, or so it was said. Without an incentive program of the kind facilities abroad have to entice foreign moviemakers, the studio was even talking, if only to rouse public sympathy, about selling some of Fellini's priceless props to raise quick cash.
The government recently came through with a three-year reprieve, promising, in effect, tax breaks on 25 percent of the money that foreign producers spend on production here. This brings the studio more in line with those in Berlin, Prague, Budapest and London.
Still, a reprieve, like a movie, ends eventually. Italy today seems unable to plan well into the future, whether securing for posterity its famous filmmaking center or preserving its crumbling architectural and archaeological heritage or consolidating this increasingly sprawling, diverse and uncontainable capital city.
That said, when I stopped in to see Maurizio Sperandini, deputy general manager of Cinecitta, he didn't seem fazed. Director of production facilities and a 22-year veteran of the complex, he has been through many ups and downs, and he told me that he and his bosses were satisfied with the three-year deal. He boasted of having doubled annual income to $57 million since the studio went private in the mid-1990s, when it was on the verge of bankruptcy.
Founded by Mussolini to promote Italian cinema and make Fascist propaganda films, Cinecitta sits on 99 acres of public land, uses public-owned buildings and depends on public tax breaks, but it is a private, for-profit enterprise with a list of glittery investors. They are now contemplating a $115 million expansion on vacant parts of the property, encompassing a new soundstage, offices, a hotel, a gym and a restaurant complex of the sort that Mr. Sperandini said Cinecitta's competitors offer.
Meanwhile, the 1930s campus of ocher buildings by Gino Peressutti, a significant work of Italian Modernist design, gracefully declines in a landscape of cypresses, palms and fiberglass trailers. Down potholed roads the Forum from the set of ''Rome,'' the defunct HBO series, abuts the decrepit waterfront of 19th-century Lower Manhattan from ''Gangs of New York.'' On a soundstage where Fellini shot ''Satyricon'' and Wes Anderson shot ''The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,'' a spaghetti entanglement of air-conditioning ducts dangles from silent catwalks. The other morning stylists were primping models for a fashion shoot before a fake ancient colonnade, where somebody had parked a Renault.
''I want to take you to the submarine,'' suggested Mr. Sperandini's assistant, Francesca Rotondo, after having failed to locate the offending Renault's owner; and like one of the supernatural characters in ''The Adjustment Bureau,'' she opened a door on the set of a 14th-century Florentine palazzo onto a weedy lot where conventioneers were gathered, and the submarine from ''U-571,'' the 2000 movie about a German U-boat, slumbered in a long, white condom-shaped tent. Nearby, the teenagers from the schoolbus flirted, texted and tried not to look bored while waiting their turns to go inside.
''We sell a mix of past and future,'' is how Mr. Sperandini summed up the appeal to filmmakers of working in this place, where the glamour and surrealism of Fellini have not yet evaporated, and the general state of craziness -- a charmed, worn and fairly somnolent variety of it -- seems a microcosm of Italy and a metaphor for how, despite themselves, Italians thrive anyway.
Some variation of Cinecitta's public-private business model, for better or for worse, may ultimately turn out to be a salvation for other ailing cultural institutions here. That's clearly the hope of Mr. Berlusconi, a billionaire who owns newspapers and television stations, including ones that he sometimes calls in to. Naturally he has been arguing for more private control, perhaps as a way to excuse his inexcusable cuts to the culture budget and the incompetence of his government in administering them.
But the story of Italy, now as always, is also one of improbable fortitude and resourcefulness. Time and again the country survives its self-inflicted calamities. It's part of the endearing, incomparable beauty and appeal of the place. When I emerged from the subway back in town, hundreds of protesters were carrying placards mocking Mr. Berlusconi for his relationship with Karima el-Mahroug, the underage girl in question, who goes by the nom d'art Ruby the Heart-Stealer. They protested in the piazza in front of the Pantheon and mixed with perplexed Japanese and Chinese tourists.
It was the usual scene of chaos, merriment and complaining. A band struck up near the fountain. The sun sank, casting shadows across the square.
This was Rome. And everybody looked very happy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Built, perhaps, in days: A film set in graceful decline at Cinecitta studios in Rome, photographed by Gregory Crewdson in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY CREWDSON/GAGOSIAN GALLERY)(C1)
FELLINI SATYRICON: Federico Fellini directed this 1969 fantasy drama, set in imperial Rome, at Cinecitta. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED ARTISTS)
THE LIFE AQUATIC WITH STEVE ZISSOU: Wes Anderson also used the studio for scenes in this 2004 wry ensemble comedy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE ANTONELLO/TOUCHSTONE PICTURES)
GANGS OF NEW YORK: Martin Scorsese had a 19th-century Lower Manhattan created at Cinecitta for this 2002 immigration story. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TURSI/MIRAMAX FILMS)
 On the first-century B.C. set of the HBO and BBC series ''Rome'' at Cinecitta in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIANNA BERTAGNOLLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FILM (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); MUSIC (68%); BUDGETS (68%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (52%); EARTHQUAKES (50%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (79%); LARRY GAGOSIAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



308 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Tough Questions Ahead on Reshaping Medicare

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama has deep disagreements with House Republicans about how to address Medicare's long-term problems. But in deciding to wade into the fight over entitlements, which he may address in a speech Wednesday afternoon, the president is signaling that he too believes Medicare must change to avert a potentially crippling fiscal crunch.
So the real issue now is not so much whether to re-engineer Medicare to deal with an aging population and rising medical costs, but how. 
Even before they debate specific proposals, lawmakers across the ideological spectrum face several fundamental questions:
Will the federal government retain its dominant role in prescribing benefits and other details of the program, like how much doctors and hospitals are paid and which new treatments are covered? Will beneficiaries still have legally enforceable rights to all those services?
Will Medicare spending still increase automatically with health costs, the number of beneficiaries and the amount of care they receive? Or will the government try to limit the costs to taxpayers by paying a fixed amount each year to private health plans to subsidize coverage for older Americans and those who are disabled?
Public concern about the federal deficit and debt has revived interest in proposals to slow the growth of Medicare, including ideas from Mr. Obama's deficit reduction commission. Here are some leading proposals:
Increase the age of eligibility for Medicare to 67, from 65.
Charge co-payments for home health care services and laboratory tests.
Require beneficiaries to pay higher premiums.
Pay a lump sum to doctors and hospitals for all services in a course of treatment or an episode of care. The new health care law establishes a pilot program to test such ''bundled payments,'' starting in 2013.
Reduce Medicare payments to health care providers in parts of the country where spending per beneficiary is much higher than the national average. (Payments could be adjusted to reflect local prices and the ''health status'' of beneficiaries.)
Require drug companies to provide additional discounts, or rebates, to Medicare for brand-name drugs bought by low-income beneficiaries.
Reduce Medicare payments to teaching hospitals for the cost of training doctors.
In debate last year over Mr. Obama's health plan, Republicans said repeatedly that he was ''raiding Medicare'' to pay for a new entitlement providing insurance for people under 65. The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said the Democrats were using Medicare as a piggy bank. Senator Jim Risch of Idaho said, ''We are talking about a half-trillion dollars that is being stolen from Medicare.'' Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa said the cuts ''threaten seniors' access to care.''
Now it is Republicans, especially House Republicans, proposing to cut the growth of Medicare, with a difference.
''Any potential savings would be used to shore up Medicare, not to pay for new entitlements,'' said Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee.
The House is expected to vote this week on his budget blueprint for the next 10 years.
Mr. Ryan points to Medicare's prescription drug coverage as a model. That benefit, added to Medicare under a 2003 law, is delivered entirely by private insurers competing for business, and competition has been intense. Premiums for beneficiaries and costs to the government have been much lower than projected.
Republicans rarely mention one secret to the success of Medicare's drug program. Under presidents of both parties, Medicare officials have regulated the prescription drug plans to protect consumers and to make sure the sickest patients have access to the drugs they need.
Many Democrats like Medicare as it is: an entitlement program in which three-fourths of the 47 million beneficiaries choose their doctors and other health care providers, and one-fourth have elected to enroll in managed-care plans. These Democrats acknowledge that care could be better coordinated, but say that could be done in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program, without forcing beneficiaries into private health plans offered by insurance companies.
Marilyn Moon, a health economist and former Democratic trustee of the Medicare trust fund, said serious discussion of changes in Medicare was warranted, and she noted that the government spent more than a half-trillion dollars a year on the program. Still, Ms. Moon said, it would be preferable to shore up Medicare without ''the philosophical sea change'' sought by Republicans, who would give private insurers more latitude to decide what benefits are available and what services are covered.
Obama administration officials said Tuesday that Medicare could save $50 billion over 10 years by reducing medical errors, injuries, infections and complications that prolong hospital stays or require readmission of patients.
In any program as big as Medicare, which accounts for one-fifth of all health spending, even decisions about small, seemingly technical questions can have vast consequences for beneficiaries, the health care industry and the economy as a whole.
Gradually raising the eligibility age, for example, would save $125 billion over 10 years, the Congressional Budget Office says.
But it would increase costs for people who would otherwise have Medicare. Some of those 65- and 66-year-olds would obtain insurance from Medicaid or from employers, as active workers or retirees, thus increasing costs for Medicaid and for employer-sponsored health plans.
If Congress decided to make a fixed contribution to a private health plan on behalf of each Medicare beneficiary, lawmakers and lobbyists could spend years debating how to set payment rates and how to adjust them, based on increases in consumer prices or medical costs or the growth of the economy.
Those decisions would directly affect beneficiaries. Under the House Republican proposal, the Congressional Budget Office said, beneficiaries ''would bear a much larger share of their health care costs,'' requiring them to ''reduce their use of health care services, spend less on other goods and services, or save more in advance of retirement.''
The history of Medicare is filled with unsuccessful efforts to rein in costs. Private health plans entered Medicare with a promise to shave 5 percent off costs, but ended up costing more than the traditional Medicare program. For two decades, Congress has tried to limit Medicare spending on doctors' services, but the limits have proved so unrealistic that Congress has repeatedly intervened to increase them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, who attended an event on Tuesday in the East Room of the White House, has faced criticism from Republicans over the Medicare program. Now, he must work with them as they propose reshaping it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); AGING (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (74%); AGING TRENDS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); HOME HEALTH CARE (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); JIM RISCH (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011



309 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Fed Report Says Economy Continues Moderate Growth

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Economic activity in the United States continued to improve over the last month, helped by the manufacturing and retail sectors, but the disaster in Japan and higher energy prices created new uncertainty about the outlook, according to a survey of the Federal Reserve's 12 districts released on Wednesday.
The central bank report on economic activity, called the beige book, reported a ''steady improvement'' in manufacturing, often including hiring, and at least 10 districts cited ''slight gains'' in consumer spending. 
Economic improvement was mostly described as moderate by many districts, according to the data collected up until April 4.
In highlighting manufacturing and retail, the latest report was similar to one released in March, which said the economy expanded at a ''modest to moderate'' pace as those sectors grew in all but a few regions of the country.
The report released on Wednesday also said that labor markets in many districts showed improvement. In the Boston, Chicago, Kansas City and Richmond districts, the Fed said some companies were concerned about their ability to attract certain types of skilled workers. In the Philadelphia and Cleveland districts, meanwhile, some firms said they still said they preferred to hire temporary, rather than permanent, workers.
While it focused on the major sectors of the domestic economy, the beige book also took into account global events, like the recent earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan.
At least seven districts noted actual or expected disruptions to sales and production as a result of the disaster in Japan.
That included a Richmond car dealer who reported restrictions on ordering certain cars colored with paints from Japan.
March was also a month of some of the highest commodity prices since September 2008. Unrest in the Middle East also took its toll. Natural resource businesses in Atlanta reported increased uncertainty as a result on outlooks for investment and hiring, the report said.
In Dallas, many companies, especially those in high-tech manufacturing, said uncertainty about events in Japan and the Middle East would hit their business and could harm profits.
The Fed report said that Japanese tourist visits to Hawaii fell, while in Boston, manufacturers that used electronic components were concerned about supply-chain disruptions.
In Minneapolis, a logistics consulting firm noted an increase in demand because companies were adjusting to disruptions caused by the disaster in Japan.
While the report provides a roundup of economic activity, it also serves as a tool to anticipate whether there will be any changes in Fed policy.
The report said, for example, that wage pressures were described by most districts as weak or subdued and that higher commodity costs were putting increasing pressures on prices.
''Energy prices were cited most often, but raw materials in general were an increasing concern of businesses,'' the report said.
The ability to pass through cost increases varied. There was generally less resistance to price increases in the manufacturing sector than there was in retail or construction, where weak demand was a limiting factor, the report said.
John Canally, an economist for LPL Financial, said that for the fourth consecutive month, the report raised some concern about pricing pressures. But he concluded that it did not appear to be enough for the Federal Open Market Committee, the policy-making arm of the Federal Reserve, to change its monetary policy later this month.
''I don't think they are even going to signal it,'' said Mr. Canally. ''You need widespread wage price pressure.''
''If the trend continues the way it has continued, by June they might have enough evidence to say we are seeing wage pressures bubble up and maybe we need to start thinking about taking away some stimulus,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Most Regions Experienced Growth: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. The survey is based on information collected on or before April 4. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); TSUNAMIS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



310 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Ad Industry's Effect on Job Market, Study Says, Stretches Far and Wide

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THAT there are ''mad men'' in New York, the home of Madison Avenue, goes without saying. But who knew there were 2,216 mad men -- and women -- in South Dakota, 11,009 in Alabama, 1,165 in Vermont and even 1,391 in Alaska?
Those are among the findings of a study commissioned by the Advertising Coalition, a consortium of trade organizations and associations that represent the ad, marketing and media industries. 
The study, conducted last August, found that 630,783 people worked in advertising in the United States, and that they were responsible for ad spending that totaled $278.9 billion.
The study is an updated version of one that the coalition commissioned in 1997 and again in 2004. The goal is to demonstrate that the industry affects many places beyond those traditionally associated with the business, like New York and California.
To that end, the study includes data meant to suggest a multiplier effect -- that the people who work in advertising, and the money that they spend, create many additional jobs and stimulate significant economic activity.
Nationally, the study declares, ''every dollar of ad spending generates just under $20 of economic output, and every million dollars of ad spending supports 69 American jobs.'' Thus, the 630,783 people who work in the industry contribute to 19.1 million people having jobs, according to the study, and the $278.9 billion spent on advertising contributed to $5.5 trillion in economic activity.
The study also reports the data not only state by state but also by Congressional district.
So, for example, the study describes how in the 3rd Congressional District in Arkansas, in the northwest part of the state, ad spending accounts for $14.3 billion in economic output, or 20.1 percent of the $71 billion in total economic output in the district.
And the sales of products and services in the district driven by advertising, according to the study, ''help support 59,662 jobs, or 15.5 percent, of the 385,504 jobs'' in the district.
The summaries of those effects carry the assertive headline ''Advertising Generates Sales and Jobs in ...,'' followed by the number of each of the 435 districts.
''It opens people's eyes,'' said Robert D. Liodice, president and chief executive of the Association of National Advertisers, which is part of the coalition along with organizations like the Four A's, formerly the American Association of Advertising Agencies; the National Cable and Telecommunications Association; and the Newspaper Association of America.
The primary use for the study will be, like its predecessors, to fight proposals on federal, state and local levels to raise revenue by passing taxes on advertising or to limit or eliminate the deductibility of advertising as a business expense. For instance, during the debate last year before the passage of the health care law, some legislators sought to reduce the deductions for pharmaceutical advertising.
''When you talk to congressmen and senators, the bottom line of jobs and dollars almost always immediately gets their attention,'' said Daniel L. Jaffe, who is executive vice president of the Association of National Advertisers and runs its Washington office.
''We've always known advertising had major impacts,'' he added, and given the current economic conditions, the study enables the coalition to counter proposals affecting the industry by saying: ''It's bad enough already. Do you want to make it worse?''
Before the coalition received the results of the study, which was conducted by IHS Global Insight, a market research firm, ''what I was afraid of was that you'd look at Wyoming or Montana or Alaska and you'd see very little effect,'' Mr. Jaffe said, ''but that's not what happened.''
''Yes, there is significant variation from state to state and from Congressional district to Congressional district,'' he added, ''but there is no place that is an advertising-free zone, where advertising is not an important part of the marketplace.''
Mr. Jaffe's counterpart at the Four A's echoed his effusiveness.
''That tool is the most powerful we have in convincing lawmakers of the power of advertising,'' said Dick O'Brien, executive vice president and director for government relations at the Four A's, who is also based in Washington.
One way the Four A's could use the study is to ''bring in ad people who work in a district'' when visiting a representative, Mr. O'Brien said, and have them describe how ''less advertising translates to fewer jobs.''
If a representative is told that restrictions against the industry would ''require laying off 10 people, 15 people, 20 people,'' he added, ''it's not an economic treatise; it's an emotional conversation.''
No changes last year affected the deductibility of advertising, Mr. O'Brien said, but proposals to reduce the federal budget deficit and reform the tax code -- coming from President Obama and Congressional Republicans -- could mean that ''for the next year, advertising will be under the microscope.''
That makes it ''so important if we can use the particulars to localize this,'' he added, ''to help them realize that advertising is not just Madison Avenue, not just New York.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobs, as Advertised: A study conducted by IHS Global Insight for the Advertising Coalition, an industry group, suggests that advertising has a significant impact on jobs in large and small states alike. (Source: The Advertising Coalition) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (91%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%)

COMPANY: NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



311 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: China Policy Main Topic For the G-20

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris and Xu Yan from Shanghai.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States and its allies, frustrated in their efforts to pressure China directly to change its economic policies, are seeking to enlist other developing nations in an international campaign that China may find more palatable.
At a meeting of finance ministers from the Group of 20 nations on Friday, the United States hopes to advance a set of proposed standards for judging the risks that individual nations pose to the global economy. Those standards could be used by the end of the year to put a spotlight on China for suppressing its currency to keep its exports cheap.
Even if the exercise succeeds, the benefits are unlikely to be tangible or clear. The United States and China have wrangled for years over the relative value of their currencies. The Chinese have made modest concessions in recent years, but mostly because of internal concerns about inflation and economic dependence on exports. 
A senior Treasury official said that it was important for countries to establish shared standards, and in particular to highlight that large deficits and large surpluses were two sides of the same issue and merited the same concern.
''This hasn't been on the table in the past, but that's where the conversation is moving now and that's helpful,'' said Lael Brainard, the Treasury under secretary for international affairs.
The purpose of the standards is not lost on China, which has resisted the process. In February, the Chinese fought successfully to exclude one important measure, reserves of foreign currencies, from the list of proposed standards.
China holds more than $2.85 trillion in foreign currency, the world's largest reserve. It has pursued an aggressive policy of printing renminbi to buy foreign currencies, lifting the value of those currencies and holding down the value of its own.
Earlier this week, a senior Chinese official published an article blasting the standards as a ''political tool'' intended to make developing nations like China pay for the economic recovery of developed nations like the United States.
Li Yong, vice minister of finance, wrote that developed nations were responsible for overprinting their own currencies, driving up the price of commodities and creating inflationary pressures in developing countries. Mr. Li wrote that the real goal of those countries was to increase demand for their own exports.
''The issue of external imbalances is a sensitive topic related to the development rights and growth potential of China and other emerging economies, and is another political tool, after the exchange rate, used by developed nations such as the U.S. to curb China's economic development,'' Mr. Li wrote in the article, which was published on the Web site of the finance ministry.
Still, China has shifted slowly in the direction sought by the international community in recent years. China's policy makers adopted a five-year plan in October that calls for domestic consumption to replace exports as the driver of economic growth. The country also has allowed its currency to appreciate 4.4 percent against the dollar since last June. American officials describe this as an effective increase of 10 percent because the rate of inflation in China is much higher than in the United States.
The United States has embraced an elevated role for the Group of 20 as the primary forum for international economic coordination.
The Group of 7, which previously played that role, is composed of nations with economies driven by consumption, and currencies that float freely in response to demand. The new seats at the table, by contrast, are held mostly by nations like China, India and Brazil that manage their currencies to create a competitive advantage for their exports.
There is broad agreement that the unbalanced relationship between those two sets of countries -- debtors on the one hand, exporters on the other -- is a major fault line that threatens global stability. There is much less agreement about the proper allocation of the economic pain associated with potential solutions.
The goal of the current process is to break that controversial issue into manageable pieces. France, the current chairman of the group, has spent this year simply trying to create agreement on the rules for analyzing nations that can be completed by the time heads of state meet in Cannes this fall. Those rules would be used to single out nations that posed the greatest risks for further study.
A French official said he hoped there would be ''incremental progress'' on Friday.
As if to underscore the gap that must be bridged, the two sides will meet separately on Thursday. Finance ministers from the Group of 7 will consult quietly in Washington. Meanwhile, heads of state from Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- the emerging powers known as BRICS -- are meeting on the Chinese island of Hainan.
The governor of Australia's central bank, Glenn Stevens, meanwhile warned Wednesday there was too much of a focus on the relationship between the United States and China.
Describing the issue of global imbalances in terms of two countries, he said, ''risks oversimplifying problems and therefore lessening the likelihood of solutions.'' Mr. Stevens spoke to the American Australian Association in New York.
He noted that the United States once described its trade problems in terms of Japan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



312 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: 800 Civilians Killed This Year In Southern Sudan, U.N. Says

BYLINE: By JOSH KRON

 BODY:
KAMPALA, Uganda -- More than 800 civilians have died since January in fragmenting violence in southern Sudan, the United Nations said Wednesday, less than three months before the vast, impoverished, battle-scarred region becomes its own nation.
Lise Grande, the humanitarian coordinator for the United Nations in southern Sudan, said that the number did not take into account the many soldiers who had died in recent fighting. It also does not reflect the continuing standoff around the contested region of Abyei, a conflict-ridden dividing line between north and south Sudan.
Southern Sudan held an independence referendum in early January that was more peaceful and orderly than many experts had predicted. But in the violence that has followed, 93,000 people have fled their homes, including more than 40,000 in the last month, Ms. Grande said. 
''We have hot spots in Unity, hot spots in Jonglei, a number of problems in Lakes State; just a week ago there was an L.R.A. attack in Western Equatoria,'' Ms. Grande said, referring to the Lord's Resistance Army, a Ugandan rebel group that has occupied parts of southern Sudan in the past.
The fighting has come at the hands of a patchwork of militias, renegade southern soldiers and other armed groups. Some of the most volatile regions include Jonglei State and Upper Nile, where clashes among the southern army, a renegade general and militias have killed hundreds, including many soldiers. At one point in early March, a rebel group occupied one of southern Sudan's largest towns.
The Sudan People's Liberation Army, the southern army, acknowledges that many hundreds have died, but says that the United Nations figure of 800 civilians is too high. It also argues that the fighting has recently slowed.
''The months of March and April have been better,'' said a southern military spokesperson, Col. Philip Aguer. ''To me, the insurgencies are down.''
''But the borders with the north,'' Colonel Aguer added, ''we cannot predict what the north may be planning.''
Even so, Ms. Grande said, ''in the past month we have had a doubling in the numbers of displaced.'' She added, ''When you see that kind of acceleration, we said, this is serious.''
On Tuesday, the United States said that economic sanctions would be lifted from southern Sudan upon its independence, which is expected to be declared on July 9. Still, it is unclear if revenues from oil that has been piped from the south through the north will be included.
The United States was ''such a player by kind of moving independence along,'' said Jordan Sekulow, an adviser for the southern Sudanese government in the United States. ''It's very important to get behind southern Sudan.''
''We want to say, 'We're open for business,' '' Mr. Sekulow said.
Southern Sudan has some of the world's worst roads and lowest literacy rates, and its government has struggled to keep all corners of the region and the multitude of ethnic groups within it pacified. It is also wrestling with the continuing tensions with the north over Abyei.
Last week, the Satellite Sentinel Project, led by Google and the Enough Project, published satellite images depicting a significant northern army buildup around Abyei. The project says it also has images depicting the massing of southern-aligned forces.
Two parts of north Sudan that are traditionally more aligned toward the south have been awaiting special talks on their own destiny, which could further test the stability of the area.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A policeman in January in Abyei, a dividing line between north and south Sudan that is the site of a continuing standoff. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); REFERENDUMS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KAMPALA, UGANDA (91%) SUDAN (99%); UGANDA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



313 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1225 words

PERSON: Sidney Harman 

HEADLINE: Sidney Harman, Whose Hi-Fi Success Was Only the Beginning, Dies at 92

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Sidney Harman, an audio pioneer who built the first high-fidelity stereo receiver, dabbled in education and government, and made a late-in-life splash by acquiring an antiquated Newsweek magazine and wedding it with a sassy young Web site, The Daily Beast, died Tuesday night in Washington. He was 92.
The cause was complications of acute myeloid leukemia, according to a statement by the family that appeared on The Daily Beast. Family members said they learned of his illness only about a month ago.
For most of his life, Mr. Harman was known as the scientist-businessman who co-founded Harman/Kardon in 1953 and made high-quality audio equipment for homes and businesses, and later navigational and other devices for cars. He made a fortune, estimated by Forbes at $500 million in 2010, and gave millions to education, the performing and fine arts and other philanthropies. 
But Mr. Harman, who was married to former Representative Jane Harman, a nine-term California Democrat who lost a 1998 California gubernatorial primary race largely financed by him, was also a golfing, tennis-playing health enthusiast who leaped out of bed every morning to do calisthenics, a scholar of boundless energy and utopian ideas, and something of a Renaissance man.
He studied physics, engineering and social psychology; was a classical music fan and jazz aficionado; recited Shakespeare by heart; was a civil rights and antiwar activist; created programs to humanize the workplace; was the president of a Quaker college on Long Island; served as President Jimmy Carter's deputy secretary of commerce; published a memoir at 85; and was still active in business in his 90s.
In August 2010, two days before he turned 92, Mr. Harman, who had virtually no media experience, bought Newsweek from the Washington Post Company for a token $1 and some $47 million in liabilities. The Post had sought a deep-pocketed savior who might preserve Newsweek's staff and standards.
Founded in 1933 and acquired by the Post Company in 1961, Newsweek had long trailed Time magazine in circulation and revenue but was known for serious print journalism. But bled by an exodus of staff members, readers and advertisers and under pressures of recession and Internet competition, the magazine had gone into a financial freefall, losing $30 million in 2009, and seemed rudderless and moribund.
After a shaky courtship, Mr. Harman and Barry Diller, The Daily Beast's owner, agreed to a merger, with Mr. Harman as executive chairman and Tina Brown of The Beast -- and of The New Yorker and Vanity Fair before that -- as its editor. The two-year-old Web site was also losing millions. Critics called it a noble but impractical venture. Mr. Harman regarded it as the capstone challenge of his diversified career.
His stamp can be seen in the magazine's pages, where a weekly column called ''Connecting the Dots'' was added at his suggestion, the name reflecting his view of a weekly news magazine's role.
But its attempt to regain readers and advertisers has been a struggle. Figures released last week by the Publishers Information Bureau showed that the number of advertising pages in Newsweek fell 31 percent compared with the same three months last year.
Mr. Diller said Mr. Harman's estate would assume control of his stake in the magazine.
''Three weeks ago, when he told me of his illness, he said he and his family wanted to continue as partners in Newsweek/Beast in all events,'' Mr. Diller said. ''We will carry on, though we will greatly miss his passionate enthusiasm and belief in the venture.''
Sidney Harman was born in Montreal on Aug. 4, 1918, and grew up in New York City, where his father worked at a hearing-aid company. The boy had a paper route and sold discarded magazines. In 1939 he graduated from a branch of City College that became Baruch College, earning a degree in physics. He found an engineering job with the David Bogen Company, a New York maker of loudspeakers. After Army service in 1944-45, he returned to the company and by the early 1950s was general manager.
At a time when sophisticated hi-fi radio required a tuner to capture signals, a pre-amplifier, a power amp and speakers, Mr. Harman and Bernard Kardon, Bogen's chief engineer, quit their jobs in 1953, put up $5,000 each and founded Harman/Kardon. It produced the first integrated hi-fi receiver, the Festival D1000.
It was hugely successful, and by 1956 the company was worth $600,000. Mr. Kardon retired, and in 1958 Mr. Harman created the first hi-fi stereo receiver, the Festival TA230. In later years, the company made speakers, amplifiers, noise-reduction devices, video and navigation equipment, voice-activated telephones, climate controls and home theater systems.
In the 1960s Mr. Harman was an active opponent of the Vietnam War, and for a year taught black pupils in Prince Edward County, Va., after public schools there were closed in a notorious effort to avoid desegregation. From 1968 to 1971 he was president of Friends World College, a Quaker institution in Suffolk County. In 1973 he earned a doctorate from the Cincinnati-based Union Institute and University.
In the early 1970s he created a program to provide employees at his Bolivar, Tenn., automotive parts plant with training, flexible hours and work assignments, stock ownership and other benefits that eased tensions with management and raised productivity. It was hailed as visionary and scorned as impractical. But President Carter was impressed, and made him deputy secretary of commerce. He served in 1977-78.
His first marriage, to the former Sylvia Stern, who is deceased, ended in divorce. He married the former Jane Lakes, who is 27 years his junior, in 1980. Besides Ms. Harman, he is survived by their two children, Daniel and Justine Harman, both of New York City; four children from his first marriage, Lynn, Gina and Paul Harman, all of New York City, and Barbara Harman, of Needham, Mass.; two stepchildren, Brian Frank and Hilary Peck, also of New York City; and 10 grandchildren.
Mr. Harman sold his company to avoid conflicts of interest during his government service, and bought it back a few years later at a profit. Renamed Harman International Industries, with headquarters in Stamford, Conn., he took it public in 1986, was chief executive until 2007 and retired as chairman in 2008. He joined the University of Southern California in 2008 as a polymath professor, lecturing on architecture, medicine, law, economics and other subjects.
He donated $20 million for the Shakespeare Theater Company's Sidney Harman Hall in Washington, and was a trustee of the Aspen Institute, the California Institute of Technology, Freedom House, the Martin Luther King Center for Social Change, the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the National Symphony Orchestra.
Mr. Harman was the co-author, with the pollster Daniel Yankelovich, of ''Starting With the People'' (1988), an analysis of national policies through a prism of public values. He also wrote an autobiography, ''Mind Your Own Business: A Maverick's Guide to Business Leadership and Life'' (2003).
''He's a man who needs a project,'' his daughter, Barbara Harman, executive director of the Harman Family Foundation, said when he bought Newsweek. ''He will die working -- if he does die -- and he'll love every minute of it, because he'll pick things to do that are worth doing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sidney Harman in 1955, after co-founding Harman/Kardon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARMAN INTERNATIONAL, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Mr. Harman with his wife, Jane, a former California congresswoman. He gave millions to education, art and other causes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE THEILER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); FAMILY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); MERGERS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); LEUKEMIA (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); GOVERNORS (67%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (64%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); GOLF (52%)

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

SIDNEY HARMAN (94%); JANE HARMAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (51%); BARRY DILLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



314 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: A Film Angers An Emirate Festival

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
In retrospect, perhaps the curators of the Sharjah Biennial, the huge contemporary art event now under way in the Persian Gulf region, should have thought twice before inviting the participation of an Iranian-American filmmaker whose biggest hit to date -- a quasi-documentary about himself was called ''I Am a Sex Addict'' and whose film before that followed along aimlessly while he tripped on hallucinogenic mushrooms.
But the biennial, which started in 1993 and began to focus on contemporary art a decade later, has long been one of the oddities of the rapidly growing Middle Eastern art scene: a relatively freewheeling survey of recent work from around the region and around the world, underwritten by one of the most culturally ambitious but conservatively Islamic of the seven states that make up the United Arab Emirates.
What happened after the Brooklyn filmmaker Caveh Zahedi submitted his film to the biennial offers an object lesson in the risks built into the event, and more generally into efforts to cultivate a contemporary art scene in places like the United Arab Emirates. 
In May a biennial curator wrote to Mr. Zahedi -- who has made a career of casting himself as a peevish and hypertalkative but ultimately likable Everyman, a kind of Persian Woody Allen crossed with Michael Moore -- and asked if he would join other filmmakers in creating short pieces for the 2011 edition of the biennial, its 10th. The only restrictions spelled out in the invitation were that films should last no more than 20 minutes and fall within a $15,000 budget, provided by the Sharjah Art Foundation, which runs the biennial.
But in conversation with curators, Mr. Zahedi later recalled, he was counseled that there were three things he needed to avoid if he wanted the film to be shown: frontal nudity, demeaning the prophet Muhammad or demeaning Sheik Sultan bin Muhammad al-Qasimi, the ruler of Sharjah.
Mr. Zahedi, 50, who grew up mostly in Los Angeles and now teaches at the New School in Manhattan, said that he was fine with the first two prohibitions but that the third one bothered him -- to the extent that it ''kind of made me interested in actually saying yes to the proposal.''
The hourlong film he eventually made after a short visit to Sharjah last winter with his wife, their toddler son and a small crew ended up chronicling how he went to Sharjah and, with no idea what to film there, essentially made a film about failing repeatedly to observe the third prohibition.
''It is irreverent, but those are the kinds of films I make -- I'm irreverent,'' he said in a recent interview. He added, ''I think because my parents are Iranian everyone thought that I would understand the Middle East, and they didn't get that I was completely an American.'' He said that he had never even heard of Sharjah before the invitation.
Realizing that his approach would probably mean that none of the footage would be screened at the biennial, he edited the film into a kind of madcap meta-narrative, an open letter to the sheik asking him to allow the film to be shown, uncut and uncensored, thereby making it even more likely that it would be dropped from the biennial's lineup -- which is exactly what has happened.
Mr. Zahedi is now locked in a battle with the Sharjah Art Foundation over whether the film, ''Plot for a Biennial'' (a wry play on the festival's theme), will ever be screened anywhere. Last month the foundation's lawyers sent him a letter demanding that all copies that made any reference to Sharjah, to the foundation or to the royal family -- references that constitute the bulk of the film -- be destroyed and that he never show the film in the form in which he made it.
The principal offense cited in the letter is a brief scene -- one that could run afoul of blasphemy laws in Sharjah and lead to jail time for anyone associated with it -- showing a group of Indian children dancing in a public square; some of their movements, choreographed by Mr. Zahedi, mimic those of prayer, as a Bollywood soundtrack plays in the background.
But Mr. Zahedi said he believed the demands for the destruction of the movie, and threats of legal action if he were to show it, have been prompted more by the royal family's discomfort and by references that the film makes to Sharjah's labor laws, which have been criticized for providing weak protections for the huge population of guest workers underpinning that emirate's economy.
The fight between Mr. Zahedi and the foundation over whether he can ever show the movie, being conducted by lawyers for both sides, is coming to light at probably the most difficult period for the biennial in its years of presenting art that often tiptoes along the boundaries of cultural and religious sensitivities. Last week the foundation's director, Jack Persekian, was forced out of his position on orders from the sheik after a public outcry over an installation in the show, by Mustapha Benfodil, an Algerian writer and artist, that included explicit sexual references and mention of Allah. (Mr. Persekian was not involved in choosing that work; curators who did have defended the language used in it, which they say refers to the widespread use of rape by religious-extremist fighters during the decade-long civil war in Algeria.)
Through a spokeswoman, officials at the foundation declined to comment on the dispute over the film, as did the curator who invited Mr. Zahedi to make it, Rasha Salti, and the biennial's other lead curator, Suzanne Cotter, who is also developing exhibitions for the Guggenheim Abu Dhabi, one of the region's many enormous cultural projects, scheduled to open in 2013.
In a letter that Mr. Persekian sent before he was fired, he wrote to Mr. Zahedi that he was personally shocked by the scene showing the children making prayer movements, and added that he thought any reasonable viewer would conclude it was ''completely disrespectful of Islam.''
(Mr. Zahedi acknowledges nearly as much in a scene in the movie: ''That's not inappropriate?'' one of his young crew members asks him, of the dancing. Mr. Zahedi bursts into laughter. ''I don't know,'' he says. ''Probably is.'' But he later adds that he believes art ''should be playful with the sacred,'' not just reverent around it.)
Carol Solomon, an art historian at Haverford College who has focused on contemporary art in the Middle East and North Africa, said that while such sentiments have always been risky in the Middle Eastern art world, ''right now everything that's going on with the unrest in the region might be precipitating an environment where they're saying, 'No, we're just not going to let things get pushed.' ''
But viewed another way, such conflicts could also be read as a sign of the biennial's success, she added, proof at least of its willingness to allow curators and artists to test limits. ''Sharjah has moved itself out into the wider international contemporary art world,'' she said, ''and in doing that it's inevitable that it's going to get people who are going to be provocative.''
Mr. Zahedi, reflecting on the situation the other day back in Brooklyn -- wearing a casual pinstriped jacket instead of the white kandura tunic and keffiyeh headdress he often wears in the movie, to comic effect -- said that to settle his dispute with Sharjah, he would be willing to let anyone associated with the biennial go on camera and disassociate themselves completely from his work: in essence, to blame it all on him.
''And I'd happily put it all in the finished film,'' he said. ''I mean, as long as it's not boring or anything.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The filmmaker Caveh Zahedi in Sharjah, in the United Arab Emirates, in ''Plot for a Biennial.''
 Mr. Zahedi in his film. The Sharjah Art Foundation, which commissioned the documentary, is now condemning it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAVEH ZAHEDI) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); RELIGION (54%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); GULF STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



315 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Report Criticizes Banks for Handling of Mortgages

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Banks did a poor job of handling the flood of foreclosures over the last several years, in some cases even moving ahead with evictions when they clearly should not have, according to a long-awaited report released Wednesday by federal regulators.
In response to the problems detailed in the report, 14 mortgage servicers have now signed consent agreements promising changes, including new oversight procedures. 
Regulators said the enforcement actions were tough measures that would make the banks accountable. ''The banks are going to have to do substantial work, bear substantial expense, to fix the problem,'' the acting comptroller of the currency, John Walsh, told reporters in a conference call.
JPMorgan Chase, one of the servicers signing the agreement, said that it was adding as many as 3,000 employees to meet the new regulatory demands. Jamie Dimon, its chief executive, called it ''a lot of intensive manpower and talent to fix the problems of the past.''
Other servicers who signed agreements included Bank of America, Citigroup and GMAC. Two firms that handle aspects of the foreclosure process, Lender Processing Services and Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, also signed consent agreements. But consumer activists were unimpressed, saying the reforms let the banks police themselves.
''The banks who caused the economic crisis and received government bailouts are getting a free pass while homeowners still struggle to save their homes,'' said Alys Cohen of the National Consumer Law Center, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group.
The other regulatory bodies involved in the examination and the enforcement actions were the Federal Reserve and the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation played a more limited role.
Problems at the servicers were ''significant and pervasive'' adding up to ''a pattern of misconduct and negligence,'' the Federal Reserve said. The Fed said it planned to announce monetary penalties for the servicers it regulates at a later date.
Mr. Walsh also said the comptroller would impose penalties. ''The question is timing and amount,'' he said.
One enforcement action requires servicers to hire an outside consultant who will review complaints by borrowers who say that their homes were improperly foreclosed. If the consultant agrees with the claim, the servicer might need to pay restitution.
During their review, the examiners said they saw an unspecified number of cases ''in which foreclosures should not have proceeded due to an intervening event or condition.'' Those circumstances included families in bankruptcy or borrowers who were either qualified for or in the middle of doing a trial loan modification.
Mortgage servicers will be required to offer families fighting foreclosure a single point of contact, but that does not require the same caseworker. Many families have complained that the servicers routinely lost documents and had trouble keeping track of individual cases.
The report said that mortgage servicing units of the banks did not properly oversee their own or third-party employees at law firms, had inadequate and poorly trained staffs and improperly submitted material to the courts.
The report and enforcement actions came six months after the problems of the way foreclosures were handled became public. Some of the issues included bank employees who acted as ''robo-signers,'' blindly processing thousands of foreclosure affidavits. The servicers, under pressure from lawyers representing homeowners, admitted to lapses last fall and imposed brief foreclosure moratoriums.
Details of the enforcement actions, which have leaked out over the last two weeks, have been widely criticized by politicians, consumer and housing groups.
''Vague and toothless,'' said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who has already introduced legislation to improve the foreclosure process. Democrats introduced the legislation in the House on Wednesday.
State attorneys general, who started a separate investigation, are still working with the Obama administration to change the foreclosure process in a more fundamental way. Two administration officials interrupted negotiations with the banks on Wednesday to stress they were actively working toward a settlement, although they declined to give any details.
''This process is going to take some time,'' said Thomas J. Perrelli, an associate attorney general for the United States.
About two million households are in foreclosure and another two million near it. Several million home buyers have already lost their homes to foreclosure, often after attempts at loan modifications went nowhere.
Michael D. Calhoun of the Center for Responsible Lending said that the regulators' report made it clear why so many loan modifications failed: the servicers were inept.
''If the guys couldn't get the basic paperwork right, what were the chances we were going to get the more complicated modifications right?'' Mr. Calhoun said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A police officer oversees an eviction. Regulators said in some cases banks went ahead with evictions when they should not have. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 A foreclosure in Richmond, Calif. Banks signing consent agreements are also expected to be subject to monetary penalties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); EVICTION (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); SAVINGS & LOANS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); NEGLIGENCE (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); BAILOUTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); LENDER PROCESSING SERVICES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONSUMER LAW CENTER (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); LPS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



316 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4078 words

HEADLINE: A Financial Crisis With Little Guilt

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
It is a question asked repeatedly across America: why, in the aftermath of a financial mess that generated hundreds of billions in losses, have no high-profile participants in the disaster been prosecuted?
Answering such a question -- the equivalent of determining why a dog did not bark -- is anything but simple. But a private meeting in mid-October 2008 between Timothy F. Geithner, then-president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and Andrew M. Cuomo, New York's attorney general at the time, illustrates the complexities of pursuing legal cases in a time of panic.
At the Fed, which oversees the nation's largest banks, Mr. Geithner worked with the Treasury Department on a large bailout fund for the banks and led efforts to shore up the American International Group, the giant insurer. His focus: stabilizing world financial markets.
Mr. Cuomo, as a Wall Street enforcer, had been questioning banks and rating agencies aggressively for more than a year about their roles in the growing debacle, and also looking into bonuses at A.I.G. 
Friendly since their days in the Clinton administration, the two met in Mr. Cuomo's office in Lower Manhattan, steps from Wall Street and the New York Fed. According to three people briefed at the time about the meeting, Mr. Geithner expressed concern about the fragility of the financial system.
His worry, according to these people, sprang from a desire to calm markets, a goal that could be complicated by a hard-charging attorney general.
Asked whether the unusual meeting had altered his approach, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, now New York's governor, said Wednesday evening that ''Mr. Geithner never suggested that there be any lack of diligence or any slowdown.'' Mr. Geithner, now the Treasury secretary, said through a spokesman that he had been focused on A.I.G. ''to protect taxpayers.''
Whether prosecutors and regulators have been aggressive enough in pursuing wrongdoing is likely to long be a subject of debate. All say they have done the best they could under difficult circumstances.
But several years after the financial crisis, which was caused in large part by reckless lending and excessive risk taking by major financial institutions, no senior executives have been charged or imprisoned, and a collective government effort has not emerged. This stands in stark contrast to the failure of many savings and loan institutions in the late 1980s. In the wake of that debacle, special government task forces referred 1,100 cases to prosecutors, resulting in more than 800 bank officials going to jail. Among the best-known: Charles H. Keating Jr., of Lincoln Savings and Loan in Arizona, and David Paul, of Centrust Bank in Florida.
Former prosecutors, lawyers, bankers and mortgage employees say that investigators and regulators ignored past lessons about how to crack financial fraud.
As the crisis was starting to deepen in the spring of 2008, the Federal Bureau of Investigation scaled back a plan to assign more field agents to investigate mortgage fraud. That summer, the Justice Department also rejected calls to create a task force devoted to mortgage-related investigations, leaving these complex cases understaffed and poorly funded, and only much later established a more general financial crimes task force.
Leading up to the financial crisis, many officials said in interviews, regulators failed in their crucial duty to compile the information that traditionally has helped build criminal cases. In effect, the same dynamic that helped enable the crisis -- weak regulation -- also made it harder to pursue fraud in its aftermath.
A more aggressive mind-set could have spurred far more prosecutions this time, officials involved in the S.&L. cleanup said.
''This is not some evil conspiracy of two guys sitting in a room saying we should let people create crony capitalism and steal with impunity,'' said William K. Black, a professor of law at University of Missouri, Kansas City, and the federal government's director of litigation during the savings and loan crisis. ''But their policies have created an exceptional criminogenic environment. There were no criminal referrals from the regulators. No fraud working groups. No national task force. There has been no effective punishment of the elites here.''
Even civil actions by the government have been limited. The Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a broad guideline in 2009 -- distributed within the agency but never made public -- to be cautious about pushing for hefty penalties from banks that had received bailout money. The agency was concerned about taxpayer money in effect being used to pay for settlements, according to four people briefed on the policy but who were not authorized to speak publicly about it.
To be sure, Wall Street's role in the crisis is complex, and cases related to mortgage securities are immensely technical. Criminal intent in particular is difficult to prove, and banks defend their actions with documents they say show they operated properly.
But legal experts point to numerous questionable activities where criminal probes might have borne fruit and possibly still could.
Investigators, they argue, could look more deeply at the failure of executives to fully disclose the scope of the risks on their books during the mortgage mania, or the amounts of questionable loans they bundled into securities sold to investors that soured.
Prosecutors also could pursue evidence that executives knowingly awarded bonuses to themselves and colleagues based on overly optimistic valuations of mortgage assets -- in effect, creating illusory profits that were wiped out by subsequent losses on the same assets. And they might also investigate whether executives cashed in shares based on inside information, or misled regulators and their own boards about looming problems.
Merrill Lynch, for example, understated its risky mortgage holdings by hundreds of billions of dollars. And public comments made by Angelo R. Mozilo, the chief executive of Countrywide Financial, praising his mortgage company's practices were at odds with derisive statements he made privately in e-mails as he sold shares; the stock subsequently fell sharply as the company's losses became known.
Executives at Lehman Brothers assured investors in the summer of 2008 that the company's financial position was sound, even though they appeared to have counted as assets certain holdings pledged by Lehman to other companies, according to a person briefed on that case. At Bear Stearns, the first major Wall Street player to collapse, a private litigant says evidence shows that the firm's executives may have pocketed revenues that should have gone to investors to offset losses when complex mortgage securities soured.
But the Justice Department has decided not to pursue some of these matters -- including possible criminal cases against Mr. Mozilo of Countrywide and Joseph J. Cassano, head of Financial Products at A.I.G., the business at the epicenter of that company's collapse. Mr. Cassano's lawyers said that documents they had given to prosecutors refuted accusations that he had misled investors or the company's board. Mr. Mozilo's lawyers have said he denies any wrongdoing.
Among the few exceptions so far in civil action against senior bankers is a lawsuit filed last month against top executives of Washington Mutual, the failed bank now owned by JPMorgan Chase. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation sued Kerry K. Killinger, the company's former chief executive, and two other officials, accusing them of piling on risky loans to grow faster and increase their compensation. The S.E.C. also extracted a $550 million settlement from Goldman Sachs for a mortgage security the bank built, though the S.E.C. did not name executives in that case.
Representatives at the Justice Department and the S.E.C. say they are still pursuing financial crisis cases, but legal experts warn that they become more difficult as time passes.
''If you look at the last couple of years and say, 'This is the big-ticket prosecution that came out of the crisis,' you realize we haven't gotten very much,'' said David A. Skeel, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania. ''It's consistent with what many people were worried about during the crisis, that different rules would be applied to different players. It goes to the whole perception that Wall Street was taken care of, and Main Street was not.''
The Countrywide Puzzle
As nonprosecutions go, perhaps none is more puzzling to legal experts than the case of Countrywide, the nation's largest mortgage lender. Last month, the office of the United States attorney for Los Angeles dropped its investigation of Mr. Mozilo after the S.E.C. extracted a settlement from him in a civil fraud case. Mr. Mozilo paid $22.5 million in penalties, without admitting or denying the accusations.
White-collar crime lawyers contend that Countrywide exemplifies the difficulties of mounting a criminal case without assistance and documentation from regulators -- the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Fed, in Countrywide's case.
''When regulators don't believe in regulation and don't get what is going on at the companies they oversee, there can be no major white-collar crime prosecutions,'' said Henry N. Pontell, professor of criminology, law and society in the School of Social Ecology at the University of California, Irvine. ''If they don't understand what we call collective embezzlement, where people are literally looting their own firms, then it's impossible to bring cases.''
Financial crisis cases can be brought by many parties. Since the big banks' mortgage machinery involved loans on properties across the country, attorneys general in most states have broad criminal authority over most of these institutions. The Justice Department can bring civil or criminal cases, while the S.E.C. can file only civil lawsuits.
All of these enforcement agencies traditionally depend heavily on referrals from bank regulators, who are more savvy on complex financial matters.
But data supplied by the Justice Department and compiled by a group at Syracuse University show that over the last decade, regulators have referred substantially fewer cases to criminal investigators than previously.
The university's Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse indicates that in 1995, bank regulators referred 1,837 cases to the Justice Department. In 2006, that number had fallen to 75. In the four subsequent years, a period encompassing the worst of the crisis, an average of only 72 a year have been referred for criminal prosecution.
Law enforcement officials say financial case referrals began declining under President Clinton as his administration shifted its focus to health care fraud. The trend continued in the Bush administration, except for a spike in prosecutions for Enron, WorldCom, Tyco and others for accounting fraud.
The Office of Thrift Supervision was in a particularly good position to help guide possible prosecutions. From the summer of 2007 to the end of 2008, O.T.S.-overseen banks with $355 billion in assets failed.
The thrift supervisor, however, has not referred a single case to the Justice Department since 2000, the Syracuse data show. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, a unit of the Treasury Department, has referred only three in the last decade.
The comptroller's office declined to comment on its referrals. But a spokesman, Kevin Mukri, noted that bank regulators can and do bring their own civil enforcement actions. But most are against small banks and do not involve the stiff penalties that accompany criminal charges.
Historically, Countrywide's bank subsidiary was overseen by the comptroller, while the Federal Reserve supervised its home loans unit. But in March 2007, Countrywide switched oversight of both units to the thrift supervisor. That agency was overseen at the time by John M. Reich, a former banker and Senate staff member appointed in 2005 by President George W. Bush.
Robert Gnaizda, former general counsel at the Greenlining Institute, a nonprofit consumer organization in Oakland, Calif., said he had spoken often with Mr. Reich about Countrywide's reckless lending.
''We saw that people were getting bad loans,'' Mr. Gnaizda recalled. ''We focused on Countrywide because they were the largest originator in California and they were the ones with the most exotic mortgages.''
Mr. Gnaizda suggested many times that the thrift supervisor tighten its oversight of the company, he said. He said he advised Mr. Reich to set up a hot line for whistle-blowers inside Countrywide to communicate with regulators.
''I told John, 'This is what any police chief does if he wants to solve a crime,' '' Mr. Gnaizda said in an interview. ''John was uninterested. He told me he was a good friend of Mozilo's.''
In an e-mail message, Mr. Reich said he did not recall the conversation with Mr. Gnaizda, and his relationships with the chief executives of banks overseen by his agency were strictly professional. ''I met with Mr. Mozilo only a few times, always in a business environment, and any insinuation of a personal friendship is simply false,'' he wrote.
After the crisis had subsided, another opportunity to investigate Countrywide and its executives yielded little. The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, created by Congress to investigate the origins of the disaster, decided not to make an in-depth examination of the company -- though some staff members felt strongly that it should.
In a January 2010 memo, Brad Bondi and Martin Biegelman, two assistant directors of the commission, outlined their recommendations for investigative targets and hearings, according to Tom Krebs, another assistant director of the commission. Countrywide and Mr. Mozilo were specifically named; the memo noted that subprime mortgage executives like Mr. Mozilo received hundreds of millions of dollars in compensation even though their companies collapsed.
However, the two soon received a startling message: Countrywide was off limits. In a staff meeting, deputies to Phil Angelides, the commission's chairman, said he had told them Countrywide should not be a target or featured at any hearing, said Mr. Krebs, who said he was briefed on that meeting by Mr. Bondi and Mr. Biegelman shortly after it occurred. His account has been confirmed by two other people with direct knowledge of the situation.
Mr. Angelides denied that he had said Countrywide or Mr. Mozilo were off limits. Chris Seefer, the F.C.I.C. official responsible for the Countrywide investigation, also said Countrywide had not been given a pass. Mr. Angelides said a full investigation was done on the company, including 40 interviews, and that a hearing was planned for the fall of 2010 to feature Mr. Mozilo. It was canceled because Republican members of the commission did not want any more hearings, he said.
''It got as full a scrub as A.I.G., Citi, anyone,'' Mr. Angelides said of Countrywide. ''If you look at the report, it's extraordinarily condemnatory.''
An F.B.I. Investigation Fizzles
The Justice Department in Washington was abuzz in the spring of 2008. Bear Stearns had collapsed, and some law enforcement insiders were suggesting an in-depth search for fraud throughout the mortgage pipeline.
The F.B.I. had expressed concerns about mortgage improprieties as early as 2004. But it was not until four years later that its officials recommended closing several investigative programs to free agents for financial fraud cases, according to two people briefed on a study by the bureau.
The study identified about two dozen regions where mortgage fraud was believed rampant, and the bureau's criminal division created a plan to investigate major banks and lenders. Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the F.B.I., approved the plan, which was described in a memo sent in spring 2008 to the bureau's field offices.
''We were focused on the whole gamut: the individuals, the mortgage brokers and the top of the industry,'' said Kenneth W. Kaiser, the former assistant director of the criminal investigations unit. ''We were looking at the corporate level.''
Days after the memo was sent, however, prosecutors at some Justice Department offices began to complain that shifting agents to mortgage cases would hurt other investigations, he recalled. ''We got told by the D.O.J. not to shift those resources,'' he said. About a week later, he said, he was told to send another memo undoing many of the changes. Some of the extra agents were not deployed.
A spokesman for the F.B.I., Michael Kortan, said that a second memo was sent out that allowed field offices to try to opt out of some of the changes in the first memo. Mr. Kaiser's account of pushback from the Justice Department was confirmed by two other people who were at the F.B.I. in 2008.
Around the same time, the Justice Department also considered setting up a financial fraud task force specifically to scrutinize the mortgage industry. Such task forces had been crucial to winning cases against Enron executives and those who looted savings and loans in the early 1990s.
Michael B. Mukasey, a former federal judge in New York who had been the head of the Justice Department less than a year when Bear Stearns fell, discussed the matter with deputies, three people briefed on the talks said. He decided against a task force and announced his decision in June 2008.
Last year, officials of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission interviewed Mr. Mukasey. Asked if he was aware of requests for more resources to be dedicated to mortgage fraud, Mr. Mukasey said he did not recall internal requests.
A spokesman for Mr. Mukasey, who is now at the law firm Debevoise & Plimpton in New York, said he would not comment beyond his F.C.I.C. testimony. He had no knowledge of the F.B.I. memo, his spokesman added.
A year later -- with precious time lost -- several lawmakers decided that the government needed more people tracking financial crimes. Congress passed a bill, providing a $165 million budget increase to the F.B.I. and Justice Department for investigations in this area. But when lawmakers got around to allocating the budget, only about $30 million in new money was provided.
Subsequently, in late 2009, the Justice Department announced a task force to focus broadly on financial crimes. But it received no additional resources.
A Break for 8 Banks
In July 2008, the staff of the S.E.C. received a phone call from Scott G. Alvarez, general counsel at the Federal Reserve in Washington.
The purpose: to discuss an S.E.C. investigation into improprieties by several of the nation's largest brokerage firms. Their actions had hammered thousands of investors holding the short-term investments known as auction-rate securities.
These investments carry interest rates that reset regularly, usually weekly, in auctions overseen by the brokerage firms that sell them. They were popular among investors because the interest rates they received were slightly higher than what they could earn elsewhere.
For years, companies like UBS and Goldman Sachs operated auctions of these securities, promoting them as highly liquid investments. But by mid-February 2008, as the subprime mortgage crisis began to spread, investors holding hundreds of billions of dollars of these securities could no longer cash them in.
As the S.E.C. investigated these events, several of its officials argued that the banks should make all investors whole on the securities, according to three people with knowledge of the negotiations but who were not authorized to speak publicly, because banks had marketed them as safe investments.
But Mr. Alvarez suggested that the S.E.C. soften the proposed terms of the auction-rate settlements. His staff followed up with more calls to the S.E.C., cautioning that banks might run short on capital if they had to pay the many billions of dollars needed to make all auction-rate clients whole, the people briefed on the conversations said. The S.E.C. wound up requiring eight banks to pay back only individual investors. For institutional investors -- like pension funds -- that bought the securities, the S.E.C. told the banks to make only their ''best efforts.''
This shift eased the pain significantly at some of the nation's biggest banks. For Citigroup, the new terms meant it had to redeem $7 billion in the securities for individual investors -- but it was off the hook for about $12 billion owned by institutions. These institutions have subsequently recouped some but not all of their investments. Mr. Alvarez declined to comment, through a spokeswoman.
An S.E.C. spokesman said: ''The primary consideration was remedying the alleged wrongdoing and in fashioning that remedy, the emphasis was placed on retail investors because they were suffering the greatest hardship and had the fewest avenues for redress.''
A similar caution emerged in other civil cases after the bank bailouts in the autumn of 2008. The S.E.C.'s investigations of financial institutions began to be questioned by its staff and the agency's commissioners, who worried that the settlements might be paid using federal bailout money.
Four people briefed on the discussions, who spoke anonymously because they were not authorized to speak publicly, said that in early 2009, the S.E.C. created a broad policy involving settlements with companies that had received taxpayer assistance. In discussions with the Treasury Department, the agency's division of enforcement devised a guideline stating that the financial health of those banks should be taken into account when the agency negotiated settlements with them.
''This wasn't a political thing so much as, 'We don't know if it makes sense to bring a big penalty against a bank that just got a check from the government,' '' said one of the people briefed on the discussions.
The people briefed on the S.E.C.'s settlement policy said that, while it did not directly affect many settlements, it slowed down the investigative work on other cases. A spokesman for the S.E.C. declined to comment.
Attorney General Moves On
The final chapter still hasn't been written about the financial crisis and its aftermath. One thing has been especially challenging for regulators and law enforcement officials: balancing concerns for the state of the financial system even as they pursued immensely complicated cases.
The conundrum was especially clear back in the fall of 2008 when Mr. Geithner visited Mr. Cuomo and discussed A.I.G. Asked for details about the meeting, a spokesman for Mr. Geithner said: ''As A.I.G.'s largest creditor, the New York Federal Reserve installed new management at A.I.G. in the fall of 2008 and directed the new C.E.O. to take steps to end wasteful spending by the company in order to protect taxpayers.''
Mr. Cuomo's office said, ''The attorney general went on to lead the most aggressive investigation of A.I.G. and other financial institutions in the nation.'' After that meeting, and until he left to become governor, Mr. Cuomo focused on the financial crisis, with mixed success. In late 2010, Mr. Cuomo sued the accounting firm Ernst & Young, accusing it of helping its client Lehman Brothers ''engage in massive accounting fraud.''
To date, however, no arm of government has sued Lehman or any of its executives on the same accounting tactic.
Other targets have also avoided legal action. Mr. Cuomo investigated the 2008 bonuses that were paid out by giant banks just after the bailout, and he considered bringing a case to try to claw back some of that money, two people familiar with the matter said. But ultimately he chose to publicly shame the companies by releasing their bonus figures.
Mr. Cuomo took a tough stance on Bank of America. While the S.E.C. settled its case with Bank of America without charging any executives with wrongdoing, Mr. Cuomo filed a civil fraud lawsuit against Kenneth D. Lewis, the former chief executive, and the bank's former chief financial officer. The suit accuses them of understating the losses of Merrill Lynch to shareholders before the deal was approved; the case is still pending.
Last spring, Mr. Cuomo issued new mortgage-related subpoenas to eight large banks. He was interested in whether the banks had misled the ratings agencies about the quality of the loans they were bundling and asked how many workers they had hired from the ratings agencies. But Mr. Cuomo did not bring a case on this matter before leaving office.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William Black, an official in the S.& L. cleanup, said this crisis's investigation was less robust. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
In October 2008, Timothy Geithner, then the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, told New York's attorney general he was concerned about the financial markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
In late 2010, then-Attorney General Andrew Cuomo sued the accounting firm Ernst & Young, accusing it of helping Lehman Brothers ''engage in massive accounting fraud.'' (PHOTOGRPAH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) (B10)
Phil Angelides, chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, said a hearing for the chief of Countrywide Financial was canceled at the request of Republican members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
A United States attorney dropped an investigation of Angelo Mozilo, former chief executive of Countrywide Financial, after the S.E.C. settled a civil fraud case against him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B11) GRAPHICS: Two Financial Crises and Responses Compared: the Savings and Loan Debacle and the Mortgage Mess (Sources: F.D.I.C. annual reports
''Big Money Crime: Fraud and Politics in the Savings and Loan Crisis'' by Kitty Calavita, Henry N. Pontell, Robert Tillman
New York Times interviews
TRAC Reports (Syracuse University)) (B10)
RESULTS BY REGULATORS AND PROSECUTORS
The surge in regulatory referrals from the S.&L. crisis has not been repeated in the latest financial crisis.
 And although white-collar prosecutions have increased recently, they have tended to involve smaller operators and institutions. (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BANK FAILURES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); ANGELO R MOZILO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



317 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Spending in March Rose on Higher Gasoline Costs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Consumers spent more in March, but most of the added expenditures went toward higher gasoline prices.
The Commerce Department said Wednesday that retail sales increased 0.4 percent last month, the ninth consecutive gain. However, the increase shrank to 0.1 percent when sales at gasoline stations were excluded. 
The biggest decline in auto sales in more than a year also pulled down overall sales. When taking out sales at gas station and of autos, retail sales rose 0.6 percent.
Economists are hoping that a payroll tax cut and brighter outlook for job growth will keep consumers shopping this year. Consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of economic activity.
But analysts worry that the recent spike in energy prices will not leave shoppers with much left over to spend on other goods and services. The nationwide average for regular gasoline is now $3.80 a gallon, up from $3.56 a month ago, according to the motor club AAA.
For March, sales of autos dropped 1.7 percent, the biggest decline since February 2010. However, some of the weakness was because General Motors scaled back incentive offers. Economists believe the outlook for auto sales for the rest of this year remains bright, given improving job prospects.
Shoppers did spend 3.6 percent more at furniture stores. Sales were also rose at appliance stores and specialty clothing stores. Sales at general merchandise stores, the category that includes retailers like Wal-Mart, rose 0.4 percent.
However, sales at department stores like Macy's saw a 0.2 percent drop in March. A survey of major retailers last week from Costco to Victoria's Secret had reported surprisingly good sales for March. Analysts said the gains would have been better but for the fact that Easter does not come until late April this year.
In a related report, the Commerce Department said that businesses added to their stockpiles in February for a 14th consecutive month and sales increased for an eighth month. The gains suggest factory orders will rise in the coming months.
Business inventories rose 0.5 percent in February, the agency reported. Combined sales by manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers increased 0.2 percent during the month.
Healthy gains in sales and inventory restocking should translate into strong orders placed with American factories.
Manufacturing activity has increased in all but two months since the recession ended in June 2009, according to the Institute for Supply Management. Factories have benefited not only from increased demand in the United States but also from stronger export sales.
The string of increases in inventories pushed stockpiles to $1.46 trillion in February. That is a level that economists consider to be normal for this stage of the recovery. It is 10.7 percent higher than the recent low of $1.32 trillion reached in September 2009.
Businesses had slashed their stockpiles to control costs during the recession.
For February, manufacturers increased their stocks by 0.8 percent and wholesale inventories rose 1 percent. Retailers reduced their inventories by 0.4 percent.
Sales rose at the manufacturing and retail levels, but declined 0.8 percent at the wholesale level.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RECESSION (89%); WHOLESALERS (88%); DEPARTMENT STORES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FURNITURE STORES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (70%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (66%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



318 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Standoff in Sacramento as Brown and G.O.P. Lock Horns Over Taxes

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Gov. Jerry Brown, seeking authorization to ask California voters to extend expiring taxes to avoid more draconian budget cuts, is fighting what increasingly appears to be an intractable battle.
With every passing day, Mr. Brown seems more frustrated and perplexed at the intensity of the opposition he faces from Republican legislators, who are refusing to even allow him to go before voters with his tax proposal. He is trying to pick off Republican votes -- he needs two in the Senate and two in the Assembly to reach the two-thirds threshold -- while he and other Democratic leaders have stepped up a public campaign to warn voters of the consequences of not extending the taxes.
''Where are the two votes?'' Mr. Brown asked an aide Tuesday, after appealing to business leaders to pressure Republicans to back the plan. ''Everyone is saying we can get them under these conditions, or we can get them under that condition. We don't have them under any conditions.'' 
At the same time, Democratic lawmakers and labor groups are urging Mr. Brown to abandon his campaign pledge to put any tax increase before voters for approval, and instead let the Legislature try to extend the taxes directly. Mr. Brown's chief spokesman, Gil Duran, said Wednesday that the governor would not break his pledge, however, and noted that that, too, would require a two-thirds vote of the Legislature.
At base, Mr. Brown and Democratic leaders are offering voters a stark choice: support an extension of three expiring taxes -- income, sales and car registration surcharges -- or endure even more severe cuts in state spending. Mr. Brown said lawmakers who thought there was another option for closing the budget gap were delusional.
''There is a certain amount of magical thinking going on under the Capitol dome,'' he said. ''And the magical thinking is that the $13.5 billion can be conjured. Poof! Getting that $13.5 billion is going to take some taxes. And if it's not going to be taxes, it's going to take a radical restructuring of both public safety and public education. And if there's a third way, I'd like to see it.''
The current legislative paralysis is offering an early verdict on this governor's promise to try to ease partisan tensions in California. His attacks on Republicans until now have been relatively measured -- at least by the standards of today's political discourse -- to the concern of some Democrats who argue that the only way to win this battle is with intense pressure on Republicans.
In a suggestion of impatience with Mr. Brown -- who this week celebrated his 100th day in office and his 73rd birthday -- the Democratic legislative leaders said lawmakers would hold forums in key districts to underline the prospective cuts. The Legislature has already approved about $14 billion in cuts to close the $26.5 billion shortfall and leave a $1 billion cushion.
''I do know this: The tactics certainly need to shift,'' Darryl Steinberg, the State Senate president and a Democrat, said in an interview. ''The governor did the right thing by going into this with an open mind and trying to reason with the minority party. But now, in an intelligent way -- not a partisan way -- we have to demonstrate why an all-cuts budget would be unacceptable, not only to the majority of people in California but a majority of people in our districts.''
''This is serious business,'' Mr. Steinberg added. ''Now we are going to be much more assertive about demonstrating why any all-cuts approach would be bad for people, bad for the economy.''
The Assembly speaker, John A. Perez, a Democrat, called on Republican lawmakers to come up with their own package for closing the gap, in order to meet the June 15 deadline for passing a budget. ''An all-cuts budget is completely unworkable,'' he said. ''There are not Democratic votes for it. And there are not Republican votes for it. We have cut down to the bone. For us to cut an addition $12 to $15 billion would devastate the economy.''
Chris Lehane, an adviser to California Democrats and union leaders, urged Democrats to take a much tougher line. ''Democrats have to do more than offer hugs and policy white papers,'' he said. ''They need to go to the mattresses and play pressure politics through the relentless application of pressure targeted to the specific spot that will generate the most leverage and force the Republicans to do the right thing by the state.''
For their part, Republicans blame Mr. Brown for the breakdown, saying that his loyalty to unions made it impossible for him to yield in some key areas, like restrictions on public employee pensions and a permanent cap on state spending. Mr. Brown cut off negotiations shortly after Republicans gave Mr. Brown a list of 53 demands -- including cutbacks in state environmental regulations and an extension of a corporate tax break.
''The governor unilaterally canceled negotiations with the Republicans,'' said Jann Tabor, a spokesman for Bob Dutton, the Senate Republican leader. ''He's now on an intimidation tour trying to pick up a couple of Republican votes.''
Mr. Brown's aides said that he would step up his travels around the state with town-hall-style meetings, including one in Stockton on Thursday, featuring teachers and public safety officials. In Sacramento on Wednesday, the governor appeared with public safety officials who warned that law enforcement programs would be endangered if the taxes were not extended.
''The things that we are doing successfully today around the state could end without the funding,'' said David L. Maggard Jr., president of the California Police Chiefs Association. ''And the police chiefs of California believe that the people of California should have the right to vote on the level of public safety that they deserve and they desire.''
By any measure, Sacramento appears to be in gridlock once again. Republicans, under pressure from antitax advocates in California and Washington, say they will not give Mr. Brown the votes he needs to put the tax measure on the ballot. Democrats said the other way to close the gap, an all-cuts budget, would never win legislative approval, given the severity of the cuts. And Mr. Brown said he would not sign a budget that resorted to one-shot revenues and accounting tricks to get the state through the next year.
''Someone will not prevail,'' he said. ''Or we will just sit here. Paralysis.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jerry Brown, in San Francisco on Tuesday, is standing by a campaign pledge to put any tax increase before voters for approval, despite fierce Republican opposition in the State Legislature. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



319 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: 'Hair' Back to Broadway for a Summer Run

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
The national tour of the 2009 Tony Award-winning production of ''Hair'' has added an unusual stop to its schedule: Broadway.
The Public Theater announced on Wednesday that ''Hair'' would return on July 5, little more than a year after it closed on Broadway, for a nearly 10-week run at the St. James Theater. (The musical ''American Idiot'' closes there later this month.) Performances will conclude on Sept. 10, after which the producers plan to take ''Hair'' back on the road through the United States. Adding New York to a major national tour is relatively rare for a musical, although ''Dreamgirls'' kicked off its 2009 tour with an engagement at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. 
The Broadway encore of ''Hair'' will feature a mix of cast members from the 2009 revival (with Darius Nichols as Hud and Kacie Sheik as Jeanie) and from the tour, including Steel Burkhardt as Berger and Paris Remillard as Claude. Caren Lyn Tackett, who played Sheila in the pre-Broadway run of the revival in Central Park in 2008, will reprise the role on Broadway this summer.
Directed by Diane Paulus, the ''Hair'' revival opened on Broadway in March 2009 and quickly became an audience favorite as well as a critical hit; the show was nominated for eight Tonys that year and won one, for best revival of a musical. The producers, who struggled to raise money in 2008 to mount the Broadway revival after the recession began, ended up earning back their $5.7 million investment by August 2009, one of the fastest recoupments in recent history.
The revival closed on Broadway in June 2010 after weekly box-office sales dropped when the many members of the original cast left for a run in London. Despite good reviews, the London production closed after only five months.
The Public, a not-for-profit Off Broadway theater, ended up losing $200,000 on the London run, a failure that led to this winter's ouster of Andrew D. Hamingson as executive director of the Public. He left when board members there learned, after the fact, that Mr. Hamingson had made financial commitments without their full knowledge for the London production of ''Hair'' as well as for the Broadway transfer of the Public's ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson.'' Mr. Hamingson told The Times that the decisions he had made were within his purview as executive director.
An executive with ''Hair'' said that no new capitalization was necessary for the coming Broadway run because it was included in the budget of the national tour.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); SALES FIGURES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); BUDGETS (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TICKET SALES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



320 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Would You Sign My Kindle?

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
SITTING at a table in a Barnes & Noble in St. Petersburg, Fla., T. J. Waters was signing copies of his book ''Hyperformance'' when a fan standing in line with the eBook version walked up and said, ''It's too bad you can't sign my Kindle.''
Mr. Waters, a senior consultant for United States Special Operations Command Headquarters, suddenly found himself wondering, ''How come the tech world can put a man on the moon and I can't sign an eBook?'' 
With consumers now accustomed to experiencing music and movies on Lilliputian devices, they're also increasingly reading Tina Fey, Scott Turow and Suzanne Collins on Kindles, Nooks and iPads. You can be a die-hard Haruki Murakami fan and not have a single novel of his on your bookshelf.
And that's only going to become more common. By 2015, sales of eBooks in the United States are expected to triple to nearly $3 billion, according to Forrester Research. But the sea change has created a dilemma: what, then, do authors autograph at book signings?
Some readers have resorted to asking authors to sign the backs of their iPads and the cases of their Kindles. But the growing demand for more-elegant solutions has software and marketing companies scrambling to propel book signing into the digital age.
Mr. Waters is in the vanguard. At the BookExpo America in New York in May, he and Robert Barrett, an information technology executive, plan to debut Autography. Here's how an Autography eBook ''signing'' will work: a reader poses with the author for a photograph, which can be taken with an iPad camera or an external camera. The image immediately appears on the author's iPad (if it's shot with an external camera, it's sent to the iPad via Bluetooth). Then the author uses a stylus to scrawl a digital message below the photo. When finished, the author taps a button on the iPad that sends the fan an e-mail with a link to the image, which can then be downloaded into the eBook.
Wait time? About two and a half minutes. Bragging potential? Endless: Readers can post the personalized photo to their Facebook and Twitter accounts.
Autography has been tested at book signings in the United States and abroad, including on visits to Army troops, when Mr. Waters signed an eBook in a plane some 36,000 feet over Iraq. (Mr. Waters said soldiers opt for Kindles because they fit perfectly into the pants pocket of their uniforms.)
Recently, he signed eBooks for fans in Dublin while on a radio show in Florida by sending callers an e-mail with a link to his autograph.
Rachel Chou, chief marketing officer for Open Road Integrated Media, a publishing and marketing company that has organized e-signings, said that within the year consumers should expect to see a variety of advances in digital signing, including eBooks that are sold with blank pages for that purpose. Some devices already have their own solutions, like Sony's Reader, which enables authors to use a stylus to sign a page on its screen.
Even so, Ms. Chou suggested that not all readers care about autographs. ''We're struggling with the idea: is it about the autograph or is it about the takeaway that you met that person?'' she said. In an age of ''look at me!'' status updates, she thinks it's the latter. Last year, Open Road organized an e-signing in San Francisco for Jonathon King's ''Midnight Guardians'' at Bouchercon by the Bay, an annual mystery convention. Instead of signing his name over and over, Mr. King posed with fans for photographs, which were given to them on USB memory sticks loaded with exclusive information, like video interviews.
In the end, readers will get more for their money. Then again, they'll have to strike a pose at book signings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KEEPSAKE: Fans received a copy of their photo with the author Jonathon King on a memory stick. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC BOOKS (91%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); BOOK SALES (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); MUSIC (70%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); ARMIES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (66%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



321 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn, Cruise Ships Will Plug In To End Fumes

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
The mighty Queen Mary 2 will no longer be belching diesel fumes into Red Hook when it docks at the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal next year. Instead, the cruise ship will shut down its engines and plug into a giant electrical outlet built especially for the port.
After two years of negotiations involving many parties, the Bloomberg administration on Wednesday announced an agreement to supply cruise ships with electrical ''shore power.'' 
The Brooklyn terminal will become the first on the East Coast to adopt the cleaner technology for cruise ships. Some ports on the West Coast, from Alaska to California, have been using shore power for nearly a decade.
People who live near the Red Hook waterfront have been complaining about the fumes since the terminal opened in 2006. Now they hope the agreement will rid their neighborhood of a source of soot and associated health risks.
''It's not only a win for Red Hook and the residents that have been breathing in stuff for a long time, but these fumes have been affecting a broad part of Brooklyn, from Carroll Gardens to Cobble Hill up to Park Slope,'' said Adam Armstrong, 47, an advocate of electric power for cruise ships and a blogger who lives with his wife and two children on Pioneer Street. ''The smoke doesn't know any boundaries.''
According to the Environmental Protection Agency, the particulates in diesel fumes emitted by idling cruise ships can aggravate asthma and other respiratory ailments and can increase the risk of cancer. Asthma is a significant problem in the community, which is home to a large public housing project, Red Hook Houses, and is already inundated by fumes from the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway.
The Red Hook Initiative, a nonprofit organization, commissioned a study in 2009 by graduate students at Hunter College that showed that nearly 40 percent of the residents of the housing projects had asthma.
A large cruise ship burning diesel fuel emits more than 1,600 tons of air pollutants annually, according to an environmental impact study conducted as part of the proposal to switch to electric power. Plugging into a hydroelectric source at the Red Hook port would eliminate nearly 1,500 tons of carbon dioxide, 95 tons of nitrous oxide and 6 1/2 tons of diesel particulate matter annually, the study showed.
''It will be the equivalent of removing 5,000 cars per year from the road annually,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, one of the agencies involved in the project.
While there has been little controversy about the merits of reducing pollution, the debate had raged over the rate for the electricity and who should pay.
The Economic Development Corporation, which manages the city's cruise terminals, agreed to subsidize some of the cost of the power, as did the New York Power Authority, the company that supplies it. The rate will be 28 cents per kilowatt hour.
Under the five-year agreement, the Carnival Corporation, which owns the Cunard Line's flagship Queen Mary 2, will pay 12 cents per kilowatt hour, while the city's economic agency and the power authority will divide the remaining 16 cents, officials said.
Carnival will also have to pay about $4 million to retrofit its ships that use the port - the Queen Mary 2 and the Caribbean Princess, according to the Bloomberg administration. The ships are scheduled to dock in Brooklyn about 40 times in 2012.
Plugging into the grid may cost Carnival more than $1 million annually above what diesel generators would. The Princess cruise line was the first to embrace the technology, known in the maritime industry as cold ironing, introducing it 10 years ago in Juneau, Alaska.
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey spent $12 million to upgrade the infrastructure at the Brooklyn port, which it owns. The E.P.A. contributed an additional $2.9 million.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (91%); CRUISES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); PARTICULATE MATTER (89%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); ASTHMA (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); CHILDREN (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); NITROGEN OXIDES (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (69%); AIR POLLUTION (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (68%); AIR POLLUTANTS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); CANCER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



322 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: At What Price Beauty? Check Today's Deal

BYLINE: By TATIANA BONCOMPAGNI

 BODY:
JASMINE CHESS had long wanted to try eyelash extensions, but the high cost had kept them off her beauty shopping list. Then Ms. Chess, 25, saw an offer to buy the service at a reduced rate ($225 instead of the usual $450) on Gilt City, an online portal that sells vouchers to fitness boutiques and spas (along with restaurants and other attractions).
''I wouldn't have bought this on my own,'' said Ms. Chess, an actress who had previously bought a juice cleanse, hair blowout and makeup on the site. ''I did it because it was a deal.''
Thanks to the rise of social coupon Web sites such as Groupon and LivingSocial, beauty consumers are able to bargain-hunt for goods and services that were once rarely, if ever, discounted. Recent sales include an oxygen facial at Bliss Spa in South Beach for $112 (30 percent off) on Gilt City and two 60-minute massages at Balanced Health in Boston for $95 (53 percent off) on LivingSocial. 
Users of Lifebooker, meanwhile, can book health and beauty services at discounted rates at off hours any day of the week, and take advantage of daily promotions, which the company calls ''loot.'' A Brazilian blowout at Gavert Atelier in Los Angeles for $129 (68 percent off) was a recent offer. Membership on all these sites is free.
''It used to be, 'Fifty percent off a haircut, what's the catch?' '' said Andrew Unger, a founder of Lifebooker, which began offering deals in late 2007, though it took two years, he said, for consumers to become comfortable with the concept. Since then, ''every month has been better than the last,'' Mr. Unger said.
According to Yipit, an aggregator of online daily deals, the number of sites offering health- and beauty-related services has nearly quintupled in the last year, to 341, while sales of these services (including spa treatments, dental whitening and hair salon services) reached $78 million for January to March of this year and are on track to reach $312 million for 2011, representing 31 percent of total daily deal sales.
Shopping for beauty services online isn't something Barbara Fisher, a sales associate for Coach in Manhattan, ever imagined doing, but since hearing about Lifebooker and a half-dozen deal sites through friends, she has bought vouchers for waxing and dental whitening trays and signed up for a free boot camp class.
She is currently on the lookout for a deal on the keratin hair treatments that usually cost her $300 to $400 a few times a year. ''I have a lot of upkeep,'' said Ms. Fisher, 40. ''I'm in the salon constantly. I will try to avoid paying full price if I can. It's a recession.''
But are beauty consumers really spending less or just buying more? Jessica Israel, a buyer of television commercial space for an advertising company in Westchester, recently purchased spray tanning, a haircut and a few massages for a discount online, all splurges she would not have tried otherwise.
''I guess it's the idea of getting a deal,'' she said, adding that she wouldn't get a spray tan again, or go back to one of the places where she had received a massage because she did not care for the ambience.
From the merchants' perspective, daily deal sites offer an opportunity to reach a large number of customers (Groupon, for example, has more than 70 million subscribers) without investing a great deal of money on advertising or marketing.
Yvette Rose, the founder of the Kickstart Diet, said she had more than 5,000 views on her company Web site the day that her deal, 40 percent off a five-day food cleanse, was listed on Gilt City. ''I've been in Town & Country and Vogue, and neither of them gave me the visibility that Gilt did,'' said Ms. Rose, who sold 100 diet packages for $250 instead of the usual $425.
Oscar Blandi, a Madison Avenue hairstylist, offered a highlight and blowout package ($145, down from $275) at his salon on Gilt City last December as part of what he called a marketing strategy to help his junior stylists and colorists build their business. ''This gets them in the door,'' he said. ''It's up to me to cultivate the client.''
But merchants like Ms. Rose and Mr. Blandi are looking for more than just exposure. More crucial to them is that customers return, and pay full price.
''You kind of take it as a loss leader because you hope people have a positive experience and translate into a lifelong patient,'' said Dr. Jennifer Jablow, a cosmetic dentist in New York who sold 50 cleanings and 63 whitening treatments on Gilt City this year. So far, 13 of those new patients have returned for additional services at regular cost.
But at what point does a business risk devaluing itself in the name of finding a few new customers? Dr. Steven Pearlman, a facial plastic surgeon who listed discounted prices for chemical peels, laser services, Botox and Juvederm on Gilt City last year, said he would not work with a deal site again for a very long time.
''I don't want to undercut patients who have been seeing me for years and paying full price, the majority of whom do,'' Dr. Pearlman said. ''I don't want to cheapen the brand.''
Indeed, some beauty professionals have decided to sit the trend out. Sharon Dorram, a hair colorist, said she did not need to offer her services at a discount.
''These discount Web sites are best for businesses that are falling under the radar, or lagging in 'word of mouth,' '' Ms. Dorram wrote in an e-mail. Isabelle Bellis, a New York-based aesthetician with a celebrity following, said she would never consider discounting her prices. ''I think I am totally fair,'' she said.
But it seems clear that these sites have begat a new breed of beauty bargain hunter.
''I'd be silly to spend all the money I did in the past when I know I can get it at such a discount,'' said Janna Schneider, 37, a program consultant for a private tutoring company in New York. Ms. Schneider estimates she has saved well over $500 by booking two keratin treatments and a package for 10 Zumba fitness classes through Lifebooker and Gilt City, respectively.
Ms. Fisher, the Coach sales associate, said: ''Now going to the salon is like getting on an airplane. You don't know what someone in the seat next to you is paying.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HADLEY HOOPER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (89%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (77%); GROUP BUYING (77%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (75%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MASSAGE SERVICES (71%)

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (56%); LIVINGSOCIAL INC (56%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



323 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Ends Flat, After a Lift From JPMorgan

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Indexes edged up on Wednesday after the banking giant JPMorgan Chase posted results that topped expectations and the government reported that retail sales rose for a ninth month.
In recent days, the market has struggled amid weaker commodity prices, Middle East turmoil and bleak news from Japan. 
But on Wednesday, the indexes started the day higher after JPMorgan Chase reported that its quarterly profit surged 67 percent even as problems continued in its mortgage lending business.
Also, the Commerce Department said that retail sales in March increased 0.4 percent, but most of the increase could be attributed to higher gas prices.
Still, economists were cautious about the retail sales figures. When adjusted for inflation, the numbers were barely rising and could even be decelerating, Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist for Mizuho Securities USA, wrote in a research note.
Analysts are also concerned that the recent spike in energy prices, which has translated into an average $3.80 for a gallon of regular gasoline, will mean that consumers have little left for other spending.
The jump in oil prices continued as the May contract for crude oil rose 86 cents, to settle at $107.11 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
''Retail numbers are pretty telling right now,'' said William B. Smith, the president of Smith Asset Management. ''I think it is something you have to watch carefully to see what is going to happen with the effect of energy prices on consumers. It leads to other questions: where are we in the recovery?''
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 7.41 points, or 0.06 percent, to 12,270.99, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.25 of a point, to 1,314.41. The Nasdaq composite index increased 16.73 points, or 0.61 percent, to 2,761.52.
The financial sector closed lower. Shares of JPMorgan fell 39 cents, or 0.84 percent, to $46.25. Goldman Sachs shed 25 cents, or 0.16 percent, to $160.17. Citigroup fell 5 cents,. or 1.10 percent, to $4.50, and Bank of America lost 20 cents, or 1.48 percent, to $13.27. Wells Fargo was down 72 cents, or 2.29 percent, to $30.68.
Separately, the Federal Reserve said in a monthly report that the economy generally continued to improve from the beginning of March to April 4, saying consumers spending picked up modestly.
''The whole market has started to get the shakes about how strong economic growth is truly going to be,'' said Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist for Key Private Bank. ''Consumers still seem to be heavily pressed.''
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 9/32, to 101 12/32. The yield fell to 3.46 percent, from 3.49 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



324 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Federal Agencies' Responses on Enforcement Actions

 BODY:
In response to inquiries from The New York Times about how federal investigators and prosecutors had responded to the financial crisis, the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission provided the following summaries.
Justice Department
A Justice Department representative said: ''The Department of Justice is aggressively pursuing financial fraud cases throughout the country, including hundreds of defendants charged with investment frauds and ponzi schemes, securities and commodities fraud, insider trading, mortgage fraud, bank fraud and other schemes. These crimes can destroy the savings of hard-working Americans, devastate families and communities, destabilize and harm the integrity of our markets and threaten our nation's economic strength. We will continue to root out financial fraud wherever it exists and when we find credible evidence of criminal conduct whether by Wall Street executives or others we will not hesitate to charge it.''
The department provided what it called ''just a sampling of some recent financial fraud cases.''
TBW/Colonial: 
Former TBW CEO Pleads Guilty to $1.5 Billion Fraud Scheme
Former TBW Financial Analyst Pleads Guilty to $1.5 Billion Fraud Scheme
Former President of TBW Pleads Guilty to Fraud Scheme
Former Colonial Bank Mortgage Lending Supervisor Pleads Guilty to Fraud Scheme
Former Senior Vice President of Colonial Bank Pleads Guilty to Fraud Scheme
Former Treasurer of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Pleads Guilty to $1.9 Billion Fraud Scheme That Contributed to the Failure of Colonial Bank
Former Chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Indicted for His Role in a More Than $1.9 Billion Fraud Scheme That Contributed to the Failure of Colonial Bank
Insider Trading:
Previously Unnamed Co-conspirator Pleads Guilty in New Jersey to Role in $32 Million Insider Trading Scheme
Attorney and Trader Arrested, Charged in New Jersey with Trading on Inside Information Stolen from Three Law Firms
Former UBS Investment Banker Sentenced in Manhattan Federal Court to 22 Months in Prison for Insider Trading Scheme
Former Investment Adviser Pleads Guilty in Manhattan Federal Court to Insider Trading and Forfeits More Than $1.4 Million
Three Hedge Fund Portfolio Managers and One Analyst Charged with Insider Trading
Three Insiders at Public Companies and One Executive of Expert-networking Firm Charged with Conspiring to Distribute Inside Information to the Firm's Clients
Former Bond Trader Admits to $9 Million Manipulative Trading Scheme Involving Collateralized Mortgage Obligation Bonds in New Jersey
Executive of Expert-Networking Firm Charged with Conspiring to Distribute Inside Information
Investment Frauds:
Former Capitol Investments CFO and Accountant Plead Guilty to Roles in $880 Million Ponzi Scheme in New Jersey
Investment Advisor Pleads Guilty to $2.4 Million Fraud Targeting Union Pension Fund and Other Investors in New Jersey and New York
Founder of A&O Entities Convicted in $100 Million Fraud Scheme
Connecticut Hedge Fund Adviser Admits Running Massive Ponzi Scheme
Richmond, Virginia Businessman Pleads Guilty for Role in Investment Fraud Scheme Causing Millions in Losses
Douglas F. Vaughan Indicted in ''Ponzi'' Scheme in New Mexico
Provident Capital Indemnity, Its President and Auditor Charged in $670 Million Fraud Scheme
Two Former High-Technology Company Executives in Accounting and Securities Fraud Scheme
Three Former Executives Charged in $200 Million Fraud Scheme Involving Fair Financial Company Investors
Lawyer for A&O Entities Pleads Guilty for His Role in $100 Million Fraud Scheme Involving Life Settlements
Former Financial Advisor Charged with Defrauding Investors of At Least $2 Million
Two Former Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Employees Charged with Conspiracy, Securities Fraud and Tax Crimes
Man pleads guilty to orchestrating $190 million Ponzi scheme
Fort Lauderdale Attorney Pleads Guilty In Billion Dollar Ponzi Scheme
San Francisco Man Charged with $25 Million Dollar Ponzi Scheme
CEO of Capitol Investments USA Inc. Pleads Guilty to $880 Million Ponzi Scheme Based on Phony Grocery Business
Connecticut Man Admits Operating $100 Million Ponzi Scheme
Three Principals of A&O Entities Arrested and Charged for Their Alleged Roles in $100 Million Fraud Scheme
Leader of $200 Million Real Estate Investment Scam Arrested for Fraud
Bank Frauds:
Former Bank President and Senior Loan Officer Indicted in Multi-million Dollar Fraud Conspiracy
Nine People Indicted for Fraud That Resulted in One of the Largest Credit Union Collapses in History
Senior Managers of GDC Acquisitions Holding Company Charged in Brooklyn, N.Y., with Bank Fraud Conspiracy
Former Officers of Failed Atlanta Bank Plead Guilty to Fraud
Mortgage Frauds:
President of Queens Mortgage Broker Sentenced to 30 Months in Prison for Participation in Massive Mortgage Fraud Scheme
Ten People Indicted in Wide-Ranging Real Estate Scam
Two New Jersey Men Charged with $7 Million Dollar Mortgage Fraud Scheme Involving More Than 50 Residential Properties
Defendant Convicted in $24 Million Mortgage Fraud Scheme
Real Estate Attorney and Loan Officer Found Guilty in Multi-Million Mortgage Fraud Scheme at Guyamerican Funding
Seven Defendants Indicted in Alleged $35 Million Mortgage Fraud Scheme Involving More than 120 Residences in the Chicago Area
12 Indicted in Arizona in Mortgage Fraud Schemes
''Operation Stolen Dreams'' Nets Local Mortgage Fraud Convictions and Charges
Securities and Exchange Commission
''In addition to BofA, further below are some of the actions we've brought related to the credit crisis,'' a Securities and Exchange Commission representative said.
Number of investigations in which the Commission has filed an action related to the credit crisis: 17 (the number excludes multiple filings in related matters so as to avoid double-counting)
Includes actions filed against Bank of America, the Reserve Fund, Evergreen Investment Management Co., State Street Bank and Trust Company, Morgan Keegan, Goldman Sachs, ICP Asset Management, Citigroup, Charles Schwab & Co., TD Ameritrade, and Wachovia
Number of CEO's, CFO's, and other senior corporate officers sued: 26
Includes actions against former senior officers of American Home Mortgage; former senior executives of Countrywide Financial (including former CEO Angelo Mozilo); former senior officers of New Century Financial; senior executives of Morgan Keegan; ICP Asset Management President Thomas C. Priore; Chairman and Majority Owner of Taylor, Bean and Whitaker Lee Farkas, current and former executives of Citigroup, and former senior officers at IndyMac Bancorp.
Number of officer and director bars, industry bars, and Commission suspensions imposed on Individuals: 14
Amount of Disgorgement and Prejudgment Interest Ordered: $148,263,109
Amount of Penalties Ordered: 900,292,500
Other Monetary Relief Obtained for Harmed Investors: $298 million (In settlements with Evergreen Investment Management Co., State Street Bank and Trust Company, and TD Ameritrade, a total of $298 million was distributed by these entities to harmed investors or shareholders)
Total disgorgement, penalties, and other monetary relief: $1.34 billion
Cases Stemming From Financial Crisis:
IndyMac Bancorp executives (2/11/2011)
TD Ameritrade (2/3/2011)
Charles Schwab entities and executives (1/11/2011)
Citigroup (7/29/2010)
ICP Asset Management (6/21/2010)
Farkas/Taylor, Bean & Whitaker (6/16/2010)
Goldman Sachs (4/16/2010)
Morgan Keegan (4/7/2010)
State Street (2/4/2010)
Brookstreet (12/8/2009)
New Century (12/7/2009)
Evergreen (6/8/2009)
Countrywide, Mozilo and other executives (6/4/2009)
Reserve Fund (5/5/2009)
American Home Mortgage (4/28/2009)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (95%); GUILTY PLEAS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); PONZI SCHEMES (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); BONDS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MISCONDUCT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (65%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



325 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Advice From a Sticky Web Site on How to Make Yours the Same

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

 BODY:
If you search the Internet for the word ''blackberry,'' the first result you are likely to find is the smartphone, not the fruit.
Similarly, the top result in a recent search for orange soda was not a soft drink, but OrangeSoda, a company based in American Fork, Utah, that creates online marketing campaigns for small- and medium-size businesses. OrangeSoda, which was founded in 2006 by Jay Bean, has 175 employees and 6,000 customers. Mr. Bean said that the company's revenue was $19 million in 2010, and that he expected it to reach $32 million this year. But not all of his ventures have been successful. In 2005, he started a retail business that failed, but that helped him better understand the marketing needs of his small-business clients.
Mr. Bean, 43, recently talked about why he named his business OrangeSoda, what he learned from his unsuccessful retail venture and what small businesses don't understand about search-engine optimization. He also discussed why he thought Groupon made a big mistake when it turned down a $6 billion offer from Google. A condensed version of the conversation follows.
Q.Why OrangeSoda? 
A. It's sticky and makes us stand out, which makes people more likely to talk about and link to us. Most companies in our industry use industry terms in their names. From a branding perspective, they've limited themselves. We're building a national brand and our name helps us.
Q.Does it create any confusion?
A. Surprisingly few people come to our Web site looking for something to drink. ''Orange soda'' is a fairly generic term. Users have to qualify their searches, so if someone wants to buy orange soda in bulk, they'll search for ''orange soda bulk.'' It all goes back to keywords.
Q.Still, aren't you competing for Web presence not just with your industry competitors but with Coke?
A. We are. But our focus is on our industry. We give very little thought to what Coke or Pepsi might do to optimize their sites. And most of the time, we outrank the soft drink companies because the term ''orange soda'' is just one of thousands of terms they are trying to get ranked on, while it's core to our brand.
Q. What were you doing before OrangeSoda?
A. I founded ah-ha.com, a search-engine marketing company that focused on small-business clients, in 1999. Marchex acquired ah-ha in 2003, and I was there until 2006. During that time, in 2005, I also started a company called Sunglasses Only. I had never sold anything myself and wanted to share the experiences of my small-business clients.
Q.How did Sunglasses Only do?
A. We closed in November 2010 and sold the assets at a loss. Initially, I planned an online business -- I owned the domain name sunglassesonly.com. But I found the major brands required you to have a retail location to sell their glasses, much like car manufacturers. We didn't want the traditional, 400-square-foot sunglass store. So we tried something different, selling 25 brands out of two stores that were closer to 15,000 square feet. We stocked 3,000 pairs of sunglasses. In 2008, the year we opened our second store, sales dipped 80 to 90 percent in one month during the recession. Business continued to suffer -- sunglasses aren't something you have to have. I've now got 300 pairs at my house. I'm selling most of them on eBay and to family and friends.
Q.What did the experience teach you about being a small-business owner?
A. My biggest lessons related to inventory. I had no experience with it as an online provider of services. Having inventory requires you to deal with a different set of complex issues, including theft control. I also didn't consider that, if the typical 400-square-foot sunglass shop needs to get 30 people through the store every hour, I was going to need four times that amount.
Q.Why did you buy the domain name sunglassesonly.com?
A. I started buying domain names in 2000 and have two or three hundred. I don't know why I buy them. I just do. But I don't buy them to sell them -- they're expensive if you're not doing anything with them. Mostly they're ones I think I might use, or related to my interests. I like cars, so I own automobilecity.com. Some are just quirky, like groovyprices.com. I have no idea what I'll do with that. None are particularly valuable.
The most expensive was OrangeSoda.com, which cost about $2,500. Someone else owns jaybean.com. So I have jayrbean.com. I own all my kids' names. I don't know what they'll do in life, but they might need them. It costs me $9 a year to give them the option.
Q.What mistakes do you see small-business owners making on the Web?
A. One is that, because one-third of mobile searches have local intent, a small business that doesn't consider mobile will miss the boat. More generally, business owners spend more time building their businesses, and less on what they don't understand, like Internet marketing. Small businesses think they can do it alone, but they can't.
Q.What can't they do?
A. It depends on their skill set. But the problem is that there isn't just one easy platform that allows business owners to easily create their own ads. There are dozens of advertising outlets on the Web -- directories, search engines, social media -- and you need to be using all of them. We create a system that allows business owners to manage these complexities across outlets.
Q.How are you different from all of the other S.E.O. gurus?
A. Most focus on national local. We do local local. For example, if a brand has 15 dealerships, we'll do separate campaigns for each location, or at least break it down by region. Madison Avenue ad agencies and big S.E.O. agencies find it harder to run 100 different campaigns. But it's necessary because search results focus locally. We focus locally all the way down to Sedalia, Mo. We'll focus on Chelsea, not all of New York City.
Q.Why has your firm grown so much faster than other Web marketing firms?
A. Most firms try to work with bigger customers. But we built a platform specifically designed for local businesses with their smaller budgets. The trend is toward local advertising. But the Googles of the world don't connect with small business. We've become the centerpoint in that connection process.
Q. How can a small-business owner tell if a Web marketer really knows what he's doing?
A. The results will speak for themselves.
Q.Is Groupon, with its local focus, worthwhile for small businesses?
A. Businesses need to keep in mind that Groupon is just one thing and needs to be combined with other tools as part of a marketing campaign. A campaign should include, for example, a good Web site and strategies for search, mobile and social media. If you have all the basics covered, then you can benefit from Groupon by using it as a customer-acquisition tool.
Q.Do you think Groupon is worth its rumored initial public offering valuation of $25 billion?
A. No. They should have taken the $6 billion from Google when they had the chance.
Q.Why? What don't they understand?
A. Groupon isn't seeing very good supplier renewal rates. It's not doing anything to keep those customers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jay Bean is the chief and founder of the Internet marketing company OrangeSoda. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY D. ALLRED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (90%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); RETAILERS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); GROUPON INC (55%); MARCHEX INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (55%); MCHX (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



326 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: States Look to Ban Efforts to Reveal Farm Abuse

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
Undercover videos showing grainy, sometimes shocking images of sick or injured livestock have become a favorite tool of animal rights organizations to expose what they consider illegal or inhumane treatment of animals.
Made by animal rights advocates posing as farm workers, such videos have prompted meat recalls, slaughterhouse closings, criminal convictions of employees and apologies from corporate executives assuring that the offending images are an aberration.
In Iowa, where agriculture is a dominant force both economically and politically, such undercover investigations could soon be illegal.
A bill before the Iowa legislature would make it a crime to produce, distribute or possess photos and video taken without permission at an agricultural facility. It would also criminalize lying on an application to work at an agriculture facility ''with an intent to commit an act not authorized by the owner.'' 
Similar legislation is being considered in Florida and Minnesota, part of a broader effort by large agricultural companies to pre-emptively block the kind of investigations that have left their operations uncomfortably -- and unpredictably -- open to scrutiny.
Their opponents, including national groups that oppose industrial farming practices, say these undercover investigations have been invaluable for revealing problems and are a form of whistle-blowing that should be protected. They argue that the legislation, if passed, would essentially hide animal abuse and food safety violations.
Wayne Pacelle, the president and chief executive of the Humane Society of the United States, noted that secretly recorded videos released last year revealed unsanitary conditions inside egg plants in Iowa. Months later, a different Iowa egg producer was responsible for the largest egg recall in United States history because of salmonella contamination.
''It's because they don't want you to see what's going on that we've resorted to employee investigations,'' Mr. Pacelle said.
Kevin Vinchattle, chief executive of the Iowa Poultry Association, which helped write the bill, suggested that those willing to lie on an application might go further and stage fake videos, destroy equipment or carry diseases onto farms. He could not provide any examples of those things ever occurring.
''If they misrepresent themselves to come on your operation to do something that's not in your best interest, they ought to be held accountable for that,'' Mr. Vinchattle said.
The Iowa bill was approved by a wide margin by the House and was passed by the Senate Agriculture Committee. It stalled after the attorney general's office raised concerns that prohibiting the possession and distribution of images -- a measure intended to prevent animal rights groups from using them for fund-raising -- infringed on free speech. Supporters are working on compromise language.
The use of undercover investigations to expose abuse in agriculture dates back more than a century. The journalist Upton Sinclair spent weeks working in meatpacking plants while researching his book ''The Jungle,'' and his graphic descriptions of unsanitary conditions prompted federal regulation of the industry.
In recent years, such investigations have increased, along with concerns among consumers about certain industrial farming methods. In Iowa, which is the nation's largest producer of eggs and pork, several major producers have been targets.
After a 2008 investigation of an Iowa pig farm showed workers beating sows and piglets as well as bragging about the abuse, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals turned over its unedited video to law enforcement, leading to criminal convictions against workers for animal abuse, said Jeff Kerr, general counsel for the organization.
Rose Acre Farms, an egg producer based in Indiana, did not realize that it had been infiltrated until the Humane Society called a news conference a year ago.
The spy was identified as a young man who had worked 15 days caring for the hens at egg producing facilities in Madison County, Iowa. He had been quiet and diligent and then stopped showing up.
Afterward, the company realized that his application mixed truth and lies. He gave his real name and Social Security number. But he listed false references, which the company had not called. And he circled ''No'' when asked if he was ''a member of, associated with, or connected in any way with any organization that could be considered an animal rights group.''
The man, who agreed to be interviewed under the condition that his name not be used, was an employee of the Humane Society. Although he found the work disturbing -- he keeps a mostly vegan diet -- he said he did what he was asked while recording videos for up to two hours a day with a hidden camera.
''My purpose there isn't to interfere or do anything, my purpose there is to work and record,'' he said. ''My purpose is to be the eyes and ears of the public.''
That video showed rows of crowded wire cages, some containing injured and disfigured hens, as well as rotting, dead birds. Employees were seen throwing the birds into bins and talking about how their wings or legs sometimes fell off in the process.
But the company said the video was misleading. It cut many hours of images into just a few minutes and cut back and forth between farms operated by two companies. Among hundreds of thousands of egg-laying hens, sick and dead birds are inevitable, they said. No one alleged a crime had been committed.
Rose Acre Farms did not fire a single employee, though it did institute more extensive background checks for new workers, said Joe Miller, general counsel for the company. ''It was a bogus film,'' he added.
The association representing egg producers helped draft legislation to ban such videos, earning support from other powerful agricultural groups in Iowa.
''People are scared to death that they might be found in a compromising position,'' said Craig Lang, a dairy farmer who is president of the Iowa Farm Bureau, which supports the bill.
The legislation has been strongly backed by Republicans but has also won some Democrats. John P. Kibbie, Democrat of Emmetsburg and president of the State Senate, who has been working on an amended bill expected to be released this week, said he supported the legislation to ''make producers feel more comfortable.''
''Agriculture is what Iowa is all about,'' Mr. Kibbie said. ''Our economy would be in the tank, big time, if it wasn't for agriculture.''
Senator Matthew W. McCoy, Democrat of Des Moines, who has introduced amendments to weaken or block the bill, said he was worried that it would open Iowa to abuses that could jeopardize food quality and undermine the very agricultural interests supporting the legislation.
''If they have nothing to hide and they are operating ethically, they should have no fear,'' Mr. McCoy said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 2011

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about efforts by lawmakers in several states to block undercover investigations at agricultural companies misstated the title of Wayne Pacelle of the Humane Society of the United States. He is the president and chief executive, not the executive director.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Humane Society video from 2010 showed conditions at Iowa farms owned by two of the nation's largest egg producers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL RIGHTS (93%); ANIMALS (91%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD RECALLS (89%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); MEATS (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); ANIMAL WELFARE (78%); FACTORY FARMS (78%); POULTRY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); POULTRY PROCESSING (77%); PRODUCT RECALLS (77%); APPROVALS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); FARM LABOR (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); TABLE EGG INDUSTRY (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (65%); BACTERIA (63%); WRITERS (62%); FUNDRAISING (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011



327 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Crushing Youths' Efforts To Be Heard

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed reporting from Kirkuk, Basra and Anbar Provinces in Iraq.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Inspired by the democratic uprisings around the Arab world to push for change, young lawmakers in Parliament are running up against an ossified political elite still dominated by the exiles who followed American tanks into Iraq to establish a fragile, violence-scarred democracy.
On the streets, the voices of young demonstrators and journalists have been muted by the batons and bullets of elite security units that answer only to a prime minister who officials say personally sends orders by text message.
An Iraq spring it is not.
In a country where the demographics skew even younger than in places like Egypt, Tunisia and Libya, the wave of political change in the region has laid bare a generation gap here split by old resentments nurtured by dictatorship and war and a youthful grasping for a stake in the new Iraq. ''The younger generation is ready to go forward; they are carrying less resentments,'' said Rawaz M. Khoshnaw, 32, a Kurdish member of Parliament, in a recent interview. 
But the forces of youth are blunted by the same forces that have robbed Iraqi society of so much for so long -- violence, a stagnant economy, zero-sum politics and sectarianism -- and that have prevented a new political class from emerging to take Iraq into a new democratic future.
A common sentiment from nearly three dozen interviews with young Iraqis around the country recently is a persistent disenchantment with both their political leaders and the way democracy has played out here. ''The youth is the excluded class in the Iraqi community,'' said Swash Ahmed, a 19-year-old law student in Kirkuk. ''So they've started to unify through Facebook or the Internet or through demonstrations and evenings in cafes, symposiums and in universities. But they don't have power.''
Iraq's unity government is showing increased signs of splintering over an American-backed power-sharing agreement. If the government fractures and a narrow majority of Shiite parties led by Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, a former exile, takes control, the result would be more divisiveness and potentially more violence.
For the young, it would be another sign of the difficulty in gaining a voice in Iraq's democracy, and a counternarrative to the grand new history being written elsewhere in the Middle East.
In Basra, Salah Mahmod, 18, said politicians here were ''in love with power.''
''We don't have democracy, and the politicians have no idea what it means.''
But it is a measure of progress that these students can speak out freely and join in street protests. One small result is that bars reopened in Baghdad after being closed in January. ''I do not want to be so negative about it,'' said Shereen Ahmed, 19, who is studying to be a teacher in Anbar Province. ''Yes, we are witnessing a small part of democracy now from what we see from the protests in Iraq. When Saddam was here, not even one Iraqi could go out in protest because he would be killed.''
Talal al-Zubai, 41, a lawmaker from the Iraqiya bloc -- the coalition led by Ayad Allawi, who was handpicked by the Americans to be prime minister in 2004 and was once attacked in exile by ax-wielding assassins sent by Saddam Hussein -- decided to form a youth bloc of Parliament members after witnessing the protests in the region and here.
He said that six had joined, and that 20 others had privately told him of their interest but were fearful of going public because ''right now they are afraid of their leaders.''
Mr. Zubai, a Sunni politician who recounts with pride the number of assassination attempts he has survived -- three: by car bomb, roadside bomb and pistol -- has no such fear, and he spoke openly about his disdain for the political elite during an interview in the foyer of Iraqiya's office in Parliament.
''The problem is, those leaders have more power than we do,'' said Mr. Zubai, who is working on his graduate studies at a college in Baghdad. ''They have more money to use in elections. They have more power to use the army and police to consolidate power.''
In Iraq, the demographic trends that have underpinned the wave of democratic uprisings and altered the dynamics of power across the Middle East are more pronounced than in other countries. The median age in the country is 21, according to the C.I.A. World Factbook. In Egypt it is 24, and in Tunisia it is 30. Nearly 40 percent of the population here is 14 or under, compared with 33 percent in Egypt and Libya and 23 percent in Tunisia. The comparisons are similar for Bahrain and Syria.
Recently, a group of young Iraqis who used Facebook to organize protests in February to demand improved services gathered in Baghdad near a church where more than 60 Christians were killed late last year. The organizers spoke of being detained and beaten by security forces after the protests, of being called homosexuals and Baathists.
Ali Abdul Zahra, a journalist, told of seeing his friend beaten as the officer asked, ''Are you the Facebook guy?'' The officer continued, according to Mr. Zahra: ''You want freedom, huh? I'll show you freedom.''
Here, violence and politics are still intertwined -- eight years after the American invasion, six years after ratifying a Constitution, and after several national and local elections, all ratified by international groups as free and fair. A brutal attack recently on the seat of local government in Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown, left nearly 60 people dead, including three members of the provincial council.
That stubborn insurgency creates a space for leaders like Mr. Maliki to centralize power, especially over the security forces, critics say. For example, Mr. Allawi said in an interview that as part of the power-sharing agreement to form the government last year, it was ''agreed that the units which are attached to the prime minister should be disengaged.'' That has not happened.
''There is no power sharing,'' he said. ''There is no democracy.''
Mr. Khoshnaw, the Kurdish lawmaker, explained the gap between the generations of leaders this way: The older generation that suffered under Mr. Hussein and struggled against him in exile is ''defined by the resentments inside themselves.''
''They have a hard time letting go,'' he said.
''People are fed up by the faces they have seen on television for the last eight years.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about difficulties faced by Iraqi youth in pushing for political change in a government dominated by older former exiles who came to power after the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 misstated the year that Ayad Allawi, one of those former exiles, was handpicked by the Americans to be interim prime minister. It was 2004, not 2005.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ali al-Jaff, 23, protested in Baghdad. Iraq's demographics skew even younger than in places like Egypt, Tunisia and Libya. (A1)
 Hussein al-Najar is a member of a group of young Iraqis that used Facebook to organize protests. Nearly 40 percent of Iraq's population is 14 or under. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); WRITERS (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); TEXT MESSAGING (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); TUNISIA (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



328 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: The Lasting Imprint of the Civil War

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Thanks to Ken Burns for his reflection on America's horrific and violent Civil War as we ponder the 150th anniversary of that distant conflict (''A Conflict's Acoustic Shadows,'' Op-Ed, April 12).
Given the problems that plague our national political life and the vitriol that the party of Lincoln -- what irony! -- pours into our political discourse, the concerns about social and economic differences that helped spark the War Between the States are as relevant as ever. 
Are we truly committed to a decent society? Do we want all children capable of literacy, numeracy and critical thought? Will we find a way to employ all who yearn to work for a decent wage?
The issues of the Civil War are not far off in the distant past. They stare us straight in the face every day in every town and municipality in our beleaguered nation. Where today is the Lincoln, Frederick Douglass or Walt Whitman to guide us through this most tempestuous time?
We await the arrival of courageous visionaries who will pave a just and socially inclusive course for our country in this most trying time. JOE MARTIN Seattle, April 12, 2011
To the Editor:
Ken Burns has it exactly right on the 150th anniversary of the start of the horrific Civil War. I am ashamed to say that as a college freshman I co-wrote a letter to the Richmond (Va.) News Leader in 1961 deriding a tearful dedication of a marker commemorating that war. How silly and irrelevant this seemed.
Later I would learn that some people's great-grandparents had lost lives and fortunes to that war, and many families had never fully recovered. This was no dusty history. By then I had visited Gettysburg and read ''A Stillness at Appomattox.''
But the tears and later the stories of those gathered that spring day gave me my first insight into the lasting devastation and the dark heart of war.
Still later my loss of eyesight from service in Vietnam confirmed war's unrelenting nasty pain that no clever storytelling or mythology can wash away.
BRUCE W. RIDER Grapevine, Tex., April 12, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''An American Tragedy'' (Op-Ed, April 12):
Edward Ball's reading of the history of the Civil War and its consequences -- ''the stream of blood that started at Fort Sumter and passed through Jim Crow and into the civil rights era'' -- discounts the war's major outcomes: Emancipation, the enactment of the 13th, 14th and 15th Amendments, and the era known as Reconstruction.
Many students of this period would mark these developments as a new birth of equality and freedom. They created the foundation for individual and organized efforts across a century in a struggle that secured the civil rights legislation of the 1960s, ending Southern-style Jim Crow and expanding federal protection of citizenship rights for all Americans.
The key to understanding how and why race continues to structure and divide American society does not lie in the Civil War, but in the inconclusive battles waged in the wake of Emancipation to ''achieve our country,'' in the words of James Baldwin.
PATRICIA SULLIVAN Columbia, S.C., April 12, 2011
The writer is a professor of history at the University of South Carolina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); FAMILY (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



329 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5505 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Speech on Reducing the Budget (Text)

 BODY:
Following is a text of President Obama's debt-reduction speech, delivered on Wednesday at George Washington University, as released by the White House:
THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. (Applause.) Please have a seat. Please have a seat, everyone.
It is wonderful to be back at GW. I want you to know that one of the reasons that I worked so hard with Democrats and Republicans to keep the government open was so that I could show up here today. I wanted to make sure that all of you had one more excuse to skip class. (Laughter.) You're welcome. (Laughter.)
I want to give a special thanks to Steven Knapp, the president of GW. I just saw him -- where is he? There he is right there. (Applause.) 
We've got a lot of distinguished guests here -- a couple of people I want to acknowledge. First of all, my outstanding Vice President, Joe Biden, is here. (Applause.) Our Secretary of the Treasury, Tim Geithner, is in the house. (Applause.) Jack Lew, the Director of the Office of Mangement and Budget. (Applause.) Gene Sperling, Chair of the National Economic Council, is here. (Applause.) Members of our bipartisan Fiscal Commission are here, including the two outstanding chairs -- Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson -- are here. (Applause.)
And we have a number of members of Congress here today. I'm grateful for all of you taking the time to attend.
What we've been debating here in Washington over the last few weeks will affect the lives of the students here and families all across America in potentially profound ways. This debate over budgets and deficits is about more than just numbers on a page; it's about more than just cutting and spending. It's about the kind of future that we want. It's about the kind of country that we believe in. And that's what I want to spend some time talking about today.
From our first days as a nation, we have put our faith in free markets and free enterprise as the engine of America's wealth and prosperity. More than citizens of any other country, we are rugged individualists, a self-reliant people with a healthy skepticism of too much government.
But there's always been another thread running through our history - a belief that we're all connected, and that there are some things we can only do together, as a nation. We believe, in the words of our first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, that through government, we should do together what we cannot do as well for ourselves.
And so we've built a strong military to keep us secure, and public schools and universities to educate our citizens. We've laid down railroads and highways to facilitate travel and commerce. We've supported the work of scientists and researchers whose discoveries have saved lives, unleashed repeated technological revolutions, and led to countless new jobs and entire new industries. Each of us has benefitted from these investments, and we're a more prosperous country as a result.
Part of this American belief that we're all connected also expresses itself in a conviction that each one of us deserves some basic measure of security and dignity. We recognize that no matter how responsibly we live our lives, hard times or bad luck, a crippling illness or a layoff may strike any one of us. ''There but for the grace of God go I,'' we say to ourselves. And so we contribute to programs like Medicare and Social Security, which guarantee us health care and a measure of basic income after a lifetime of hard work; unemployment insurance, which protects us against unexpected job loss; and Medicaid, which provides care for millions of seniors in nursing homes, poor children, those with disabilities. We're a better country because of these commitments. I'll go further. We would not be a great country without those commitments.
Now, for much of the last century, our nation found a way to afford these investments and priorities with the taxes paid by its citizens. As a country that values fairness, wealthier individuals have traditionally borne a greater share of this burden than the middle class or those less fortunate. Everybody pays, but the wealthier have borne a little more. This is not because we begrudge those who've done well - we rightly celebrate their success. Instead, it's a basic reflection of our belief that those who've benefited most from our way of life can afford to give back a little bit more. Moreover, this belief hasn't hindered the success of those at the top of the income scale. They continue to do better and better with each passing year.
Now, at certain times - particularly during war or recession - our nation has had to borrow money to pay for some of our priorities. And as most families understand, a little credit card debt isn't going to hurt if it's temporary.
But as far back as the 1980s, America started amassing debt at more alarming levels, and our leaders began to realize that a larger challenge was on the horizon. They knew that eventually, the Baby Boom generation would retire, which meant a much bigger portion of our citizens would be relying on programs like Medicare, Social Security, and possibly Medicaid. Like parents with young children who know they have to start saving for the college years, America had to start borrowing less and saving more to prepare for the retirement of an entire generation.
To meet this challenge, our leaders came together three times during the 1990s to reduce our nation's deficit -- three times. They forged historic agreements that required tough decisions made by the first President Bush, then made by President Clinton, by Democratic Congresses and by a Republican Congress. All three agreements asked for shared responsibility and shared sacrifice. But they largely protected the middle class; they largely protected our commitment to seniors; they protected our key investments in our future.
As a result of these bipartisan efforts, America's finances were in great shape by the year 2000. We went from deficit to surplus. America was actually on track to becoming completely debt free, and we were prepared for the retirement of the Baby Boomers.
But after Democrats and Republicans committed to fiscal discipline during the 1990s, we lost our way in the decade that followed. We increased spending dramatically for two wars and an expensive prescription drug program - but we didn't pay for any of this new spending. Instead, we made the problem worse with trillions of dollars in unpaid-for tax cuts - tax cuts that went to every millionaire and billionaire in the country; tax cuts that will force us to borrow an average of $500 billion every year over the next decade.
To give you an idea of how much damage this caused to our nation's checkbook, consider this: In the last decade, if we had simply found a way to pay for the tax cuts and the prescription drug benefit, our deficit would currently be at low historical levels in the coming years.
But that's not what happened. And so, by the time I took office, we once again found ourselves deeply in debt and unprepared for a Baby Boom retirement that is now starting to take place. When I took office, our projected deficit, annually, was more than $1 trillion. On top of that, we faced a terrible financial crisis and a recession that, like most recessions, led us to temporarily borrow even more.
In this case, we took a series of emergency steps that saved millions of jobs, kept credit flowing, and provided working families extra money in their pocket. It was absolutely the right thing to do, but these steps were expensive, and added to our deficits in the short term.
So that's how our fiscal challenge was created. That's how we got here. And now that our economic recovery is gaining strength, Democrats and Republicans must come together and restore the fiscal responsibility that served us so well in the 1990s. We have to live within our means. We have to reduce our deficit, and we have to get back on a path that will allow us to pay down our debt. And we have to do it in a way that protects the recovery, protects the investments we need to grow, create jobs, and helps us win the future.
Now, before I get into how we can achieve this goal, some of you, particularly the younger people here -- you don't qualify, Joe. (Laughter.) Some of you might be wondering, ''Why is this so important? Why does this matter to me?''
Well, here's why. Even after our economy recovers, our government will still be on track to spend more money than it takes in throughout this decade and beyond. That means we'll have to keep borrowing more from countries like China. That means more of your tax dollars each year will go towards paying off the interest on all the loans that we keep taking out. By the end of this decade, the interest that we owe on our debt could rise to nearly $1 trillion. Think about that. That's the interest -- just the interest payments.
Then, as the Baby Boomers start to retire in greater numbers and health care costs continue to rise, the situation will get even worse. By 2025, the amount of taxes we currently pay will only be enough to finance our health care programs -- Medicare and Medicaid -- Social Security, and the interest we owe on our debt. That's it. Every other national priority - education, transportation, even our national security - will have to be paid for with borrowed money.
Now, ultimately, all this rising debt will cost us jobs and damage our economy. It will prevent us from making the investments we need to win the future. We won't be able to afford good schools, new research, or the repair of roads - all the things that create new jobs and businesses here in America. Businesses will be less likely to invest and open shop in a country that seems unwilling or unable to balance its books. And if our creditors start worrying that we may be unable to pay back our debts, that could drive up interest rates for everybody who borrows money - making it harder for businesses to expand and hire, or families to take out a mortgage.
Here's the good news: That doesn't have to be our future. That doesn't have to be the country that we leave our children. We can solve this problem. We came together as Democrats and Republicans to meet this challenge before; we can do it again.
But that starts by being honest about what's causing our deficit. You see, most Americans tend to dislike government spending in the abstract, but like the stuff that it buys. Most of us, regardless of party affiliation, believe that we should have a strong military and a strong defense. Most Americans believe we should invest in education and medical research. Most Americans think we should protect commitments like Social Security and Medicare. And without even looking at a poll, my finely honed political instincts tell me that almost nobody believes they should be paying higher taxes. (Laughter.)
So because all this spending is popular with both Republicans and Democrats alike, and because nobody wants to pay higher taxes, politicians are often eager to feed the impression that solving the problem is just a matter of eliminating waste and abuse. You'll hear that phrase a lot. ''We just need to eliminate waste and abuse.'' The implication is that tackling the deficit issue won't require tough choices. Or politicians suggest that we can somehow close our entire deficit by eliminating things like foreign aid, even though foreign aid makes up about 1 percent of our entire federal budget.
So here's the truth. Around two-thirds of our budget -- two-thirds -- is spent on Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and national security. Two-thirds. Programs like unemployment
insurance, student loans, veterans' benefits, and tax credits for working families take up another 20 percent. What's left, after interest on the debt, is just 12 percent for everything else. That's 12 percent for all of our national priorities -- education, clean energy, medical research, transportation, our national parks, food safety, keeping our air and water clean -- you name it -- all of that accounts for 12 percent of our budget.
Now, up till now, the debate here in Washington, the cuts proposed by a lot of folks in Washington, have focused exclusively on that 12 percent. But cuts to that 12 percent alone won't solve the problem. So any serious plan to tackle our deficit will require us to put everything on the table, and take on excess spending wherever it exists in the budget.
A serious plan doesn't require us to balance our budget overnight - in fact, economists think that with the economy just starting to grow again, we need a phased-in approach - but it does require tough decisions and support from our leaders in both parties now. Above all, it will require us to choose a vision of the America we want to see five years, 10 years, 20 years down the road.
Now, to their credit, one vision has been presented and championed by Republicans in the House of Representatives and embraced by several of their party's presidential candidates. It's a plan that aims to reduce our deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years, and one that addresses the challenge of Medicare and Medicaid in the years after that.
These are both worthy goals. They're worthy goals for us to achieve. But the way this plan achieves those goals would lead to a fundamentally different America than the one we've known certainly in my lifetime. In fact, I think it would be fundamentally different than what we've known throughout our history.
A 70 percent cut in clean energy. A 25 percent cut in education. A 30 percent cut in transportation. Cuts in college Pell Grants that will grow to more than $1,000 per year. That's the proposal. These aren't the kind of cuts you make when you're trying to get rid of some waste or find extra savings in the budget. These aren't the kinds of cuts that the Fiscal Commission proposed. These are the kinds of cuts that tell us we can't afford the America that I believe in and I think you believe in.
I believe it paints a vision of our future that is deeply pessimistic. It's a vision that says if our roads crumble and our bridges collapse, we can't afford to fix them. If there are bright young Americans who have the drive and the will but not the money to go to college, we can't afford to send them.
Go to China and you'll see businesses opening research labs and solar facilities. South Korean children are outpacing our kids in math and science. They're scrambling to figure out how they put more money into education. Brazil is investing billions in new infrastructure and can run half their cars not on high-priced gasoline, but on biofuels. And yet, we are presented with a vision that says the American people, the United States of America - the greatest nation on Earth - can't afford any of this.
It's a vision that says America can't afford to keep the promise we've made to care for our seniors. It says that 10 years from now, if you're a 65-year-old who's eligible for Medicare, you should have to pay nearly $6,400 more than you would today. It says instead of guaranteed health care, you will get a voucher. And if that voucher isn't worth enough to buy the insurance that's available in the open marketplace, well, tough luck - you're on your own. Put simply, it ends Medicare as we know it.
It's a vision that says up to 50 million Americans have to lose their health insurance in order for us to reduce the deficit. Who are these 50 million Americans? Many are somebody's grandparents -- may be one of yours -- who wouldn't be able to afford nursing home care without Medicaid. Many are poor children. Some are middle-class families who have children with autism or Down's syndrome. Some of these kids with disabilities are -- the disabilities are so severe that they require 24-hour care. These are the Americans we'd be telling to fend for themselves.
And worst of all, this is a vision that says even though Americans can't afford to invest in education at current levels, or clean energy, even though we can't afford to maintain our commitment on Medicare and Medicaid, we can somehow afford more than $1 trillion in new tax breaks for the wealthy. Think about that.
In the last decade, the average income of the bottom 90 percent of all working Americans actually declined. Meanwhile, the top 1 percent saw their income rise by an average of more than a quarter of a million dollars each. That's who needs to pay less taxes?
They want to give people like me a $200,000 tax cut that's paid for by asking 33 seniors each to pay $6,000 more in health costs. That's not right. And it's not going to happen as long as I'm President. (Applause.)
This vision is less about reducing the deficit than it is about changing the basic social compact in America. Ronald Reagan's own budget director said, there's nothing ''serious'' or ''courageous'' about this plan. There's nothing serious about a plan that claims to reduce the deficit by spending a trillion dollars on tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. And I don't think there's anything courageous about asking for sacrifice from those who can least afford it and don't have any clout on Capitol Hill. That's not a vision of the America I know.
The America I know is generous and compassionate. It's a land of opportunity and optimism. Yes, we take responsibility for ourselves, but we also take responsibility for each other; for the country we want and the future that we share. We're a nation that built a railroad across a continent and brought light to communities shrouded in darkness. We sent a generation to college on the GI Bill and we saved millions of seniors from poverty with Social Security and Medicare. We have led the world in scientific research and technological breakthroughs that have transformed millions of lives. That's who we are. This is the America that I know. We don't have to choose between a future of spiraling debt and one where we forfeit our investment in our people and our country.
To meet our fiscal challenge, we will need to make reforms. We will all need to make sacrifices. But we do not have to sacrifice the America we believe in. And as long as I'm President, we won't.
So today, I'm proposing a more balanced approach to achieve $4 trillion in deficit reduction over 12 years. It's an approach that borrows from the recommendations of the bipartisan Fiscal Commission that I appointed last year, and it builds on the roughly $1 trillion in deficit reduction I already proposed in my 2012 budget. It's an approach that puts every kind of spending on the table -- but one that protects the middle class, our promise to seniors, and our investments in the future.
The first step in our approach is to keep annual domestic spending low by building on the savings that both parties agreed to last week. That step alone will save us about $750 billion over 12 years. We will make the tough cuts necessary to achieve these savings, including in programs that I care deeply about, but I will not sacrifice the core investments that we need to grow and create jobs. We will invest in medical research. We will invest in clean energy technology. We will invest in new roads and airports and broadband access. We will invest in education. We will invest in job training. We will do what we need to do to compete, and we will win the future.
The second step in our approach is to find additional savings in our defense budget. Now, as Commander-in-Chief, I have no greater responsibility than protecting our national security, and I will never accept cuts that compromise our ability to defend our homeland or America's interests around the world. But as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Mullen, has said, the greatest long-term threat to America's national security is America's debt. So just as we must find more savings in domestic programs, we must do the same in defense. And we can do that while still keeping ourselves safe.
Over the last two years, Secretary Bob Gates has courageously taken on wasteful spending, saving $400 billion in current and future spending. I believe we can do that again. We need to not only eliminate waste and improve efficiency and effectiveness, but we're going to have to conduct a fundamental review of America's missions, capabilities, and our role in a changing world. I intend to work with Secretary Gates and the Joint Chiefs on this review, and I will make specific decisions about spending after it's complete.
The third step in our approach is to further reduce health care spending in our budget. Now, here, the difference with the House Republican plan could not be clearer. Their plan essentially lowers the government's health care bills by asking seniors and poor families to pay them instead. Our approach lowers the government's health care bills by reducing the cost of health care itself.
Already, the reforms we passed in the health care law will reduce our deficit by $1 trillion. My approach would build on these reforms. We will reduce wasteful subsidies and erroneous payments. We will cut spending on prescription drugs by using Medicare's purchasing power to drive greater efficiency and speed generic brands of medicine onto the market. We will work with governors of both parties to demand more efficiency and accountability from Medicaid.
We will change the way we pay for health care - not by the procedure or the number of days spent in a hospital, but with new incentives for doctors and hospitals to prevent injuries and improve results. And we will slow the growth of Medicare costs by strengthening an independent commission of doctors, nurses, medical experts and consumers who will look at all the evidence and recommend the best ways to reduce unnecessary spending while protecting access to the services that seniors need.
Now, we believe the reforms we've proposed to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid will enable us to keep these commitments to our citizens while saving us $500 billion by 2023, and an additional $1 trillion in the decade after that. But if we're wrong, and Medicare costs rise faster than we expect, then this approach will give the independent commission the authority to make additional savings by further improving Medicare.
But let me be absolutely clear: I will preserve these health care programs as a promise we make to each other in this society. I will not allow Medicare to become a voucher program that leaves seniors at the mercy of the insurance industry, with a shrinking benefit to pay for rising costs. I will not tell families with children who have disabilities that they have to fend for themselves. We will reform these programs, but we will not abandon the fundamental commitment this country has kept for generations.
That includes, by the way, our commitment to Social Security. While Social Security is not the cause of our deficit, it faces real long-term challenges in a country that's growing older. As I said in the State of the Union, both parties should work together now to strengthen Social Security for future generations. But we have to do it without putting at risk current retirees, or the most vulnerable, or people with disabilities; without slashing benefits for future generations; and without subjecting Americans' guaranteed retirement income to the whims of the stock market. And it can be done.
The fourth step in our approach is to reduce spending in the tax code, so-called tax expenditures. In December, I agreed to extend the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans because it was the only way I could prevent a tax hike on middle-class Americans. But we cannot afford $1 trillion worth of tax cuts for every millionaire and billionaire in our society. We can't afford it. And I refuse to renew them again.
Beyond that, the tax code is also loaded up with spending on things like itemized deductions. And while I agree with the goals of many of these deductions, from homeownership to charitable giving, we can't ignore the fact that they provide millionaires an average tax break of $75,000 but do nothing for the typical middle-class family that doesn't itemize. So my budget calls for limiting itemized deductions for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans -- a reform that would reduce the deficit by $320 billion over 10 years.
But to reduce the deficit, I believe we should go further. And that's why I'm calling on Congress to reform our individual tax code so that it is fair and simple -- so that the amount of taxes you pay isn't determined by what kind of accountant you can afford.
I believe reform should protect the middle class, promote economic growth, and build on the fiscal commission's model of reducing tax expenditures so that there's enough savings to both lower rates and lower the deficit. And as I called for in the State of the Union, we should reform our corporate tax code as well, to make our businesses and our economy more competitive.
So this is my approach to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 12 years. It's an approach that achieves about $2 trillion in spending cuts across the budget. It will lower our interest payments on the debt by $1 trillion. It calls for tax reform to cut about $1 trillion in tax expenditures -- spending in the tax code. And it achieves these goals while protecting the middle class, protecting our commitment to seniors, and protecting our investments in the future.
Now, in the coming years, if the recovery speeds up and our economy grows faster than our current projections, we can make even greater progress than I've pledged here. But just to hold Washington -- and to hold me --- accountable and make sure that the debt burden continues to decline, my plan includes a debt failsafe. If, by 2014, our debt is not projected to fall as a share of the economy - if we haven't hit our targets, if Congress has failed to act - then my plan will require us to come together and make up the additional savings with more spending cuts and more spending reductions in the tax code. That should be an incentive for us to act boldly now, instead of kicking our problems further down the road.
So this is our vision for America - this is my vision for America -- a vision where we live within our means while still investing in our future; where everyone makes sacrifices but no one bears all the burden; where we provide a basic measure of security for our citizens and we provide rising opportunity for our children.
There will be those who vigorously disagree with my approach. I can guarantee that as well. (Laughter.) Some will argue we should not even consider ever -- ever -- raising taxes, even if only on the wealthiest Americans. It's just an article of faith to them. I say that at a time when the tax burden on the wealthy is at its lowest level in half a century, the most fortunate among us can afford to pay a little more. I don't need another tax cut. Warren Buffett doesn't need another tax cut. Not if we have to pay for it by making seniors pay more for Medicare. Or by cutting kids from Head Start. Or by taking away college scholarships that I wouldn't be here without and that some of you would not be here without.
And here's the thing: I believe that most wealthy Americans would agree with me. They want to give back to their country, a country that's done so much for them. It's just Washington hasn't asked them to.
Others will say that we shouldn't even talk about cutting spending until the economy is fully recovered. These are mostly folks in my party. I'm sympathetic to this view -- which is one of the reasons I supported the payroll tax cuts we passed in December. It's also why we have to use a scalpel and not a machete to reduce the deficit, so that we can keep making the investments that create jobs. But doing nothing on the deficit is just not an option. Our debt has grown so large that we could do real damage to the economy if we don't begin a process now to get our fiscal house in order.
Finally, there are those who believe we shouldn't make any reforms to Medicare, Medicaid, or Social Security, out of fear that any talk of change to these programs will immediately usher in the sort of steps that the House Republicans have proposed. And I understand those fears. But I guarantee that if we don't make any changes at all, we won't be able to keep our commitment to a retiring generation that will live longer and will face higher health care costs than those who came before.
Indeed, to those in my own party, I say that if we truly believe in a progressive vision of our society, we have an obligation to prove that we can afford our commitments. If we believe the government can make a difference in people's lives, we have the obligation to prove that it works - by making government smarter, and leaner and more effective.
Of course, there are those who simply say there's no way we can come together at all and agree on a solution to this challenge. They'll say the politics of this city are just too broken; the choices are just too hard; the parties are just too far apart. And after a few years on this job, I have some sympathy for this view. (Laughter.)
But I also know that we've come together before and met big challenges. Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill came together to save Social Security for future generations. The first President Bush and a Democratic Congress came together to reduce the deficit. President Clinton and a Republican Congress battled each other ferociously, disagreed on just about everything, but they still found a way to balance the budget. And in the last few months, both parties have come together to pass historic tax relief and spending cuts.
And I know there are Republicans and Democrats in Congress who want to see a balanced approach to deficit reduction. And even those Republicans I disagree with most strongly I believe are sincere about wanting to do right by their country. We may disagree on our visions, but I truly believe they want to do the right thing.
So I believe we can, and must, come together again. This morning, I met with Democratic and Republican leaders in Congress to discuss the approach that I laid out today. And in early May, the Vice President will begin regular meetings with leaders in both parties with the aim of reaching a final agreement on a plan to reduce the deficit and get it done by the end of June.
I don't expect the details in any final agreement to look exactly like the approach I laid out today. This a democracy; that's not how things work. I'm eager to hear other ideas from all ends of the political spectrum. And though I'm sure the criticism of what I've said here today will be fierce in some quarters, and my critique of the House Republican approach has been strong, Americans deserve and will demand that we all make an effort to bridge our differences and find common ground.
This larger debate that we're having -- this larger debate about the size and the role of government -- it has been with us since our founding days. And during moments of great challenge and change, like the one that we're living through now, the debate gets sharper and it gets more vigorous. That's not a bad thing. In fact, it's a good thing. As a country that prizes both our individual freedom and our obligations to one another, this is one of the most important debates that we can have.
But no matter what we argue, no matter where we stand, we've always held certain beliefs as Americans. We believe that in order to preserve our own freedoms and pursue our own happiness, we can't just think about ourselves. We have to think about the country that made these liberties possible. We have to think about our fellow citizens with whom we share a community. And we have to think about what's required to preserve the American Dream for future generations.
This sense of responsibility -- to each other and to our country -- this isn't a partisan feeling. It isn't a Democratic or a Republican idea. It's patriotism.
The other day I received a letter from a man in Florida. He started off by telling me he didn't vote for me and he hasn't always agreed with me. But even though he's worried about our economy and the state of our politics -- here's what he said -- he said, ''I still believe. I believe in that great country that my grandfather told me about. I believe that somewhere lost in this quagmire of petty bickering on every news station, the 'American Dream' is still alive We need to use our dollars here rebuilding, refurbishing and restoring all that our ancestors struggled to create and maintain We as a people must do this together, no matter the color of the state one comes from or the side of the aisle one might sit on.''
''I still believe.'' I still believe as well. And I know that if we can come together and uphold our responsibilities to one another and to this larger enterprise that is America, we will keep the dream of our founding alive -- in our time; and we will pass it on to our children. We will pass on to our children a country that we believe in.
Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. (Applause.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ERSKINE BOWLES (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



330 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
BELARUS LEADER SAYS
BOMBING HAS BEEN SOLVED
The president of Belarus, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, announced that the security services had caught the perpetrators of a subway bombing that killed 12 people and wounded scores in Minsk on Monday, saying that three suspects had quickly confessed to the crime. PAGE A4
PUTIN KEEPS RUSSIA IN DARK 
Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin said said neither he nor President Dmitri A. Medvedev had ruled out running next spring. Either would win easily in a political system nearly devoid of competition. PAGE A4
CHARGES FOR ISRAELI MINISTER
Israel's attorney general announced his intention to indict the foreign minister, Avigdor Lieberman, on corruption charges, but said he would allow Mr. Lieberman a hearing to contest an indictment before issuing a formal charge sheet. PAGE A5
NATIONAL
DEATH PENALTY DRUG SEARCH RAISES LEGAL QUESTIONS
A shortage of one of the three drugs used in most lethal injections has caused disarray as states pursue a desperate and sometimes furtive search that might run afoul of federal drug laws. The shortage has also given death-penalty opponents fresh arguments for suing to block executions. PAGE A12
BILL TO BAN FARM VIDEOS
A bill before the Iowa Legislature would make it a crime to produce, distribute or possess photos and video taken without permission at an agricultural facility. PAGE A13
NEW YORK
YALE STUDENT KILLED
IN MACHINE SHOP ACCIDENT
Michele Dufault, a Yale University undergraduate majoring in astronomy and physics, was killed when her hair became caught in a lathe.
PAGE A18
BUSINESS
JPMORGAN CHASE SAYS
MORTGAGE LENDING STALLED
Bad mortgages and home equity loans cost JPMorgan Chase $1 billion in the first quarter. Bank officials expect these high loss levels to persist, and acknowledged that new mortgage lending has stalled.
PAGE B1
MORTGAGE CONFLICTS IGNORED
A report on the financial crisis by the United States Senate describes business practices that were rife with conflicts during the mortgage mania and reckless activities that were ignored inside the banks and among their federal regulators. PAGE B1
FUND MANAGER CHARGED
Federal prosecutors have charged a hedge fund manager with insider trading, accusing him of using secret information about a clinical drug trial to place millions of dollars in trades. The portfolio manager, Joseph F. Skowron, a medical doctor who specialized in health care funds, is the latest person to be ensnared in the government's vast insider-trading investigation. PAGE B2
OBITUARIES
SIDNEY HARMAN, 92
He was an audio pioneer who built the first high-fidelity stereo receiver. He dabbled in education and government, and made a late-in-life splash by acquiring an antiquated Newsweek magazine and wedding it with a sassy young Web site, The Daily Beast. PAGE A21
Sports
ENDURING HOMELESSNESS,
A TOP RECRUIT PERSEVERES
Marquis Barnett, a 6-foot-7, 240-pound high school senior and a prized basketball recruit, has lived in an assortment of homeless shelters and public housing, and his decision on where to play in college will have a huge impact on his family. PAGE B13
TRAINER DENIED LICENSE
Rick Dutrow, who trained Big Brown, the 2008 Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes winner, was denied a horse racing license in Kentucky and cannot start horses in the state for the rest of the year. PAGE B16
Arts
A PROVOCATIVE FILM PROJECT
ANGERS AN EMIRATE FESTIVAL
What happened after the Brooklyn filmmaker Caveh Zahedi submitted his movie ''I Am a Sex Addict'' to the Sharjah Biennial, the huge contemporary art event now under way in the Persian Gulf region, offers a lesson in the risks built into the event, and more generally into efforts to cultivate a contemporary art scene in places like the United Arab Emirates. PAGE C1
Home
SEEING THE SLEEPOVER
AS PERFORMANCE ART
Inspired by the adventures of a financial analyst who embarked on a 52-week journey around New York City, staying for a week at a time in other people's apartments as a way to recover from a painful breakup, Kenya Robinson imagined a 13-week-long performance-art piece, and offered herself up as a guest (10 hours of housework included, but the host must supply the toothpaste) to anyone who would have her. PAGE D1
Thursday Styles
BIG IN THE BRIDAL SALON
AND NOW ON THE RED CARPET
In the vibrant, if hermetic, realm of bridal fashion, Romona Keveza is a name to be reckoned with. What is curious is that Ms. Keveza, once virtually unknown outside frothy bridal salons, has emerged as a red-carpet presence, if not overnight, then at least faster than fashion watchers could take in. PAGE E1
Op-ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A23
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING (86%); INSIDER TRADING (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); DRUG POLICY (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); HEALTH CARE (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); CLINICAL TRIALS (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (61%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); NEWSWEEK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (82%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); SIDNEY HARMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) BELARUS (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



331 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: President Obama, Reinvigorated: Mr. Obama's deficit plan is flawed, but it draws vital distinctions with the Republicans

 BODY:
The man America elected president has re-emerged.
For months, the original President Obama had disappeared behind mushy compromises and dimly seen principles. But on Wednesday, he used his budget speech to clearly distance himself from Republican plans to heap tax benefits on the rich while casting adrift the nation's poor, elderly and unemployed. Instead of adapting the themes of the right to his own uses, he set out a very different vision of an America that keeps its promises to the weak and asks for sacrifice from the strong.
The deficit-reduction plan he unveiled did not always live up to that vision and should have been less fixated on spending cuts at the expense of tax increases. It may give up too much as an opening position. But at least it was a reasonable basis for a conversation and is far better than its most prominent competitors. That is because it is grounded in themes of generosity and responsibility that, until recently, had been shared by leaders of both parties. 
Because everyone deserves ''some basic measure of security and dignity,'' he said, the nation contributes to programs like Medicare, Medicaid and unemployment insurance. He said that ''we would not be a great country without those commitments.''
But House Republicans and many of their party's presidential candidates are trying to terminate that promise, he said, leaving seniors on their own and abandoning 50 million uninsured Americans. They are saying no to rebuilding bridges, sending students to college, to investing in research while giving the rich $1 trillion in tax cuts.
''That's not right, and it's not going to happen as long as I'm president,'' he said.
Perhaps it was inevitable that Mr. Obama would begin to restate his most appealing principles as he embarks on his re-election campaign, which opened with this speech. But the timing could not have been better. It came just days after he seemed to swallow the Republican Party's insincere talk of deficit reduction by praising a six-month budget deal that cuts too deeply, and a week after Republicans released their proposal to cut taxes and erase decades of social progress by rewriting entitlement programs.
Mr. Obama said he would ''refuse to renew'' the Bush tax cuts for the rich when they expire at the end of 2012. That alone would save $700 billion over 10 years, and he proposed another $1 trillion in savings by limiting itemized deductions for the wealthiest 2 percent and by ending various unspecified loopholes.
Still, his plan relies on about two parts spending cuts to one part tax increases. It should have been closer to 50-50, broadening the sacrifice. That could have been achieved by reminding those in the middle class that their income taxes remain low and will need to go up, and also through new revenue sources like energy taxes, a financial-transactions tax or a value-added tax.
Along with $770 billion in cuts to nonsecurity domestic spending over 12 years -- more than is prudent -- he also calls for $360 billion in savings from mandatory programs like agricultural subsidies and pension insurance. To remain true to the ideals he espoused in his speech, cuts to other programs in this category like food stamps and subsidies for the working poor should be off the table.
He said he wouldn't follow Representative Paul Ryan's plan to make Medicare a voucher program ''that leaves seniors at the mercy of the insurance industry.'' Instead, he would wring savings in the plan by using governmental tools to hold down annual increases in spending.
His target for those increases was surprisingly low, much less than the current rate of growth, and it is not clear that that goal can be met without harming providers or beneficiaries. He would try to do so by giving greater powers to a special board to promote and enforce changes in health care delivery. He also promised real savings on prescription drug costs in Medicare and refused to accept Mr. Ryan's notion of shrinking Medicaid into block grants.
Negotiations with an implacable opposition are about to get much tougher, but it was a relief to see Mr. Obama standing up for the values that got him to the table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); MEDICAID (72%); MEDICARE (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



332 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Bill Advances To Overhaul Italy's System Of Justice

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

 BODY:
ROME -- The lower house of Italy's Parliament on Wednesday approved a measure intended to speed up Italy's notoriously slow justice system, bringing the country into line with European standards but possibly ending several trials pending against Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi.
The legislation, which is also expected to pass in the Senate, is a victory for Mr. Berlusconi. He has put justice reform at the center of his political agenda as he fights corruption charges and allegations that he paid an under-age woman for sex, and also fights to hold together his motley center-right coalition. 
Mr. Berlusconi, 74, also said Tuesday in remarks that were reported on Wednesday that he might not seek re-election as prime minister in Italy's next national elections in 2013. Mr. Berlusconi had said before that he would most likely not run in 2013 -- and analysts said he would retain his grip on Italy -- but his remarks seemed to be an acknowledgment of an impending new chapter in his political life.
The measure approved on Wednesday would place a three-year limit on trials in which the defendant faces a maximum sentence of 10 years. It would allow another two years for the first appeal and one and a half years for the second and final appeal. For more serious crimes, trials can last as long as 10 years.
The European Union has repeatedly reprimanded Italy for the sluggishness of its courts. But the center-left opposition and many Italians have criticized the reform as aimed at easing Mr. Berlusconi's own personal legal woes rather than addressing the most pressing issues facing the country.
If it passes, the law is expected to end a trial that began in 2006 in which Mr. Berlusconi is accused of bribing a British lawyer, David Mills, in exchange for his withholding testimony. Mr. Mills was convicted by two lower courts but did not face prison because the statute of limitations ran out. Mr. Berlusconi has denied wrongdoing.
In a rare meeting with members of the foreign press on Tuesday, the prime minister made clear how important justice reform -- and his own trials -- were to his political agenda.
Mr. Berlusconi said that he was reluctant to have Italy join the allied intervention in Libya, given his ''cordial'' relations with its leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, with whom he had forged a personal bond over the years. But he knew there was no choice but for Italy to allow the use of its United States and NATO air bases.
In 2008 Italy signed a friendship treaty with Libya, a former colony with which it maintains close economic ties.
Mr. Berlusconi said that joining the coalition had been so difficult for him that at one point he considered it grounds for him to resign, but his advisers cautioned against it. ''And so I decided to stay,'' he said.
His comments came during a wide-ranging discussion over a four-hour dinner with foreign journalists here. The dinner was billed as off the record, but a detailed account was published by the Italian news agency ANSA, and later in other Italian media outlets, effectively releasing other journalists from their commitment.
Mr. Berlusconi said that he planned to serve until 2013. After that, he said he did not foresee himself having ''an active role in government'' but rather serving as an elder statesman in an advisory role.
He said that he would consult polls before deciding, but that he was inclined toward entrusting the leadership of his party, the People of Liberty, to some current ministers, including Justice Minister Angelino Alfano, Foreign Minister Franco Frattini and Education Minister Mariastella Gelmini.
Without naming him, Mr. Berlusconi singled out Mr. Alfano, 40, who has championed the justice reform package, as a possible candidate for prime minister. Speaking of the future of his party, Mr. Berlusconi said, ''You met him here,'' alluding to Mr. Alfano, who had met with a group of foreign journalists this month.
Mr. Berlusconi added that he had ''no, no, no intention'' of running for president of Italy, and instead reiterated his desire to see his right-hand man, the government under secretary Gianni Letta, in that somewhat ceremonial role. The president is elected by a two-thirds majority in Parliament. President Giorgio Napolitano's seven-year term ends in 2013.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); BRIBERY (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); LAWYERS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (99%); EUROPE (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



333 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Taking On G.O.P., Obama Unveils Debt Relief Plan

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Jackie Calmes, John Harwood and Thom Shanker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama made the case Wednesday for slowing the rapid growth of the national debt while retaining core Democratic values, proposing a mix of long-term spending cuts, tax increases and changes to social welfare programs as his opening position in a fierce partisan budget battle over the nation's fiscal challenges.
After spending months on the sidelines as Republicans laid out their plans, Mr. Obama jumped in to present an alternative and a philosophical rebuttal to the conservative approach that will reach the House floor on Friday. Republican leaders were working Wednesday to round up votes for that measure and one to finance the government for the rest of the fiscal year.
Mr. Obama said his proposal would cut federal budget deficits by a cumulative $4 trillion over 12 years, compared with a deficit reduction of $4.4 trillion over 10 years in the Republican plan. But the president said he would use starkly different means, rejecting the fundamental changes to Medicare and Medicaid proposed by Republicans and relying in part on tax increases on affluent Americans. 
The president framed his proposal as a balanced alternative to the Republican plan, setting the stage for a debate that will consume Washington in coming weeks, as the administration faces off with Congress over raising the national debt ceiling, and into next year, as the president runs for re-election.
Mr. Obama named Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to lead the negotiations with Congress, which the administration hopes will produce the outlines of a deal by the end of June, though a detailed agreement might have to await the outcome of the 2012 election. Mr. Biden played a similar role in talks that averted a government shutdown at the 11th hour, over issues far less thorny than those on the table now.
In a 44-minute speech to an audience at George Washington University that included Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the author of the Republican plan, Mr. Obama was often combative and partisan, saying the Republican approach would hurt the elderly by driving up the cost of medical care, deprive millions of health insurance and starve the nation of investments in its future.
''These are the kind of cuts that tells us we can't afford the America that I believe in,'' he said. ''I believe it paints a vision of our future that's deeply pessimistic.''
''There's nothing serious about a plan that claims to reduce the deficit by spending a trillion dollars on tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires,'' the president continued, as Mr. Ryan sat stone faced. ''There's nothing courageous about asking for sacrifice from those who can least afford it and don't have any clout on Capitol Hill.''
Yet Mr. Obama acknowledged that the rising medical costs and the mounting debt required action. And he warned Democrats that his administration would have to cut cherished programs and strictly limit the growth of Medicare and Medicaid. ''If we truly believe in a progressive vision of our society,'' he said, ''we have the obligation to prove that we can afford our commitments.''
Mr. Obama said he would meet his $4 trillion deficit-reduction target by cutting spending across a range of government programs, from farm subsidies to federal pension insurance.
He called for cutting $400 billion more in military spending -- twice what his defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, told Congress was the largest cut he could recommend.
In a sign of the tensions the plan may cause within the administration, officials at the Pentagon said Mr. Gates was not told of Mr. Obama's proposal until Tuesday. In a statement, a Pentagon spokesman, Geoff Morrell, said that ''further significant defense cuts'' would reduce the military's capability. ''It is important that any reduction in funding be shaped by strategy and policy choices, and not be a budget math exercise,'' Mr. Morrell said.
Republicans criticized the plan, both for the cuts in military spending and for what they said was an overall lack of detail.
''Republicans, led by Chairman Ryan, have set the bar with a jobs budget that puts us on a path to paying down the debt and preserves Medicare and Medicaid for the future,'' Speaker John A. Boehner said in a statement. ''This afternoon, I didn't hear a plan to match it from the president.''
Mr. Boehner repeated a threat to refuse to raise the $14.3 trillion ceiling on the national debt, which the government is likely to breach in early July, unless the administration agrees to rein in spending and deficits. The administration has sought to keep the debt ceiling issue separate from the broader budget debate, and Mr. Obama addressed it only indirectly on Wednesday.
''If our creditors start worrying that we may be unable to pay back our debts,'' Mr. Obama said, ''that could drive up interest rates for everyone.''
Still, in what some analysts said was a gesture to Republicans, Mr. Obama said his plan would contain a trigger to require across-the-board spending cuts if, by 2014, the federal debt was still projected to be rising as a percentage of the total economy.
The trigger would apply not only to spending but also to what the administration calls ''tax expenditures'' -- essentially payments to taxpayers for deductions for charitable donations or home mortgages.
The use of the phrase ''tax expenditures'' allows the administration to lump tax-related issues into the spending category. Mr. Obama was more direct in his call for allowing the Bush-era tax cuts for higher-income Americans to expire in 2012.
The president agreed to extend the cuts last December, as part of a budget deal with the newly elected Republican majority in the House. Now, with the economy getting back on its feet, Mr. Obama attacked the demand by Republicans to make the lower tax rates permanent as emblematic of their plan to enrich the wealthy on the backs of the elderly and poor.
''They want to give people like me a $200,000 tax cut that's paid for by asking 33 seniors to each pay $6,000 more in health costs? That's not right, and it's not going to happen as long as I am president,'' Mr. Obama said, his only line that drew applause.
While Mr. Obama's plan does not detail specific cuts, analysts said it offered enough detail to set off a substantive debate with Republicans. Some said the proposal for capping the annual cost increase in Medicare and Medicaid to just above the economic growth rate was surprisingly conservative. Others said they were pleased that Mr. Obama had called for overhauling Social Security, even if he was vague and said it was not a leading culprit for the deficit.
''It looks like Ryan smoked him out, so to speak,'' said Rudolph G. Penner, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute.
Mr. Penner said Mr. Obama's plan hewed closely to the recommendations of his commission on deficit reduction. Mr. Obama did not explicitly endorse those recommendations when the commission submitted its report in December -- a decision that fueled criticism from Republicans and some Democrats that he was not facing up to the tough choices in the budget debate.
The co-chairmen of that commission -- Erskine B. Bowles, who was a chief of a staff to President Bill Clinton, and former Senator Alan K. Simpson -- were in the audience Wednesday, along with Mr. Biden. At one point, Mr. Biden appeared to nod off, closing his eyes for 30 seconds.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about President Obama's speech outlining his proposal for reducing budget deficits misstated the number of senior citizens who, the president said, would have to pay $6,000 more in health costs to offset the tax cut for each wealthy individual that is part of a competing Republican deficit-reduction plan. He said 33 senior citizens, not 30.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama unveiled a budget framework Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES) (A17) GRAPHIC: Comparing Budget Proposals (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MEDICARE (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); MEDICAID (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



334 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Raise America's Taxes

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
President Obama in his speech on Wednesday confronted a topic that is harder to address seriously in public than sex or flatulence: America needs higher taxes.
That ugly truth looms over today's budget battles, but politicians have mostly preferred to run from reality. Mr. Obama's speech was excellent not only for its content but also because he didn't insult our intelligence.
There is no single reason for today's budget mess, but it's worth remembering that the last time our budget was in the black was in the Clinton administration. That's a broad hint that one sensible way to overcome our difficulties would be to revert to tax rates more or less as they were under President Clinton. That single step would solve three-quarters of the deficit for the next five years or so. 
Paradoxically, nothing makes the need for a tax increase more clear than the Republican budget proposal crafted by Representative Paul Ryan. The Republicans propose slashing spending far more than the public would probably accept -- even dismantling Medicare -- and rely on economic assumptions that are not merely rosy, but preposterous.
Yet even so, the Republican plan shows continuing budget deficits until the 2030s. In short, we can't plausibly slash our way back to solid fiscal ground. We need more revenue.
Kudos to Mr. Obama for boldly stating that truth in his speech -- even if he did focus only on taxes for the very wealthiest. I also thought he was right to say that we need spending cuts -- including in our defense budget. Mr. Obama didn't say so, but the United States accounts for almost as much military spending as the entire rest of the world put together.
As I see it, there are three fallacies common in today's budget discussions:
Republicans are the party of responsible financial stewardship, struggling to put America on a sound footing.
In truth, both parties have been wildly irresponsible, but in cycles. Democrats were more irresponsible in the 1960s, the two parties both seemed care-free in the '70s and '80s, and since then the Republicans have been staggeringly reckless.
After the Clinton administration began paying down America's debt, Republicans passed the Bush tax cuts, waded into a trillion-dollar war in Iraq, and approved an unfunded prescription medicine benefit -- all by borrowing from China. Then-Vice President Dick Cheney scoffed that ''deficits don't matter.''
This borrow-and-spend Republican history makes it galling when Republicans now assert that deficits are the only thing that matter -- and call for drastic spending cuts, two-thirds of which would harm low-income and moderate-income Americans, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. To pay for tax cuts heaped largely on the wealthiest Americans, Republicans in effect would gut Medicare and slash jobs programs, family planning and college scholarships. Instead of spreading opportunity, federal policy would cap it.
Low tax rates are essential to create incentives for economic growth: a tax increase would stifle the economy.
It's true that, in general, higher taxes tend to reduce incentives. But this seems a weak effect, often overwhelmed by other factors.
Were Americans really lazier in the 1950s, when marginal tax rates peaked at more than 90 percent? Are people in high-tax states like Massachusetts more lackadaisical than folks in a state like Florida that has no personal income tax at all?
Tax increases can also send a message of prudence that stimulates economic growth. The Clinton tax increase of 1993 was followed by a golden period of high growth, while the Bush tax cuts were followed by an anemic economy.
We can't afford Medicare.
It's true that America faces a basic problem with rapidly rising health care costs. But the Republican plan does nothing serious to address health care spending, other than stop paying bills. Indeed, Medicare is cheaper to administer than private health insurance (2 percent to 6 percent administrative costs, depending on who does the math, compared with about 12 percent for private plans). So the Republican plan might add to health care spending rather than curb it.
The real challenge is to control health care inflation. Nobody is certain how to do that, but the Obama health care law is testing some plausible ideas. These include rigorous research on which procedures work and which don't. Why pay for surgery on enlarged prostates if certain kinds of patients turn out to be better with no treatment at all?
Ever since Walter Mondale publicly committed hara-kiri in 1984 by telling voters that he would raise their taxes, politicians have run from fiscal reality. As baby boomers age and require Social Security and Medicare, escapism will no longer suffice. We need to have a frank national discussion of painful steps ahead, and since I'm not a politician, let me be perfectly clear: raise my taxes!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); IRAQ WAR (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DICK CHENEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



335 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Cairo's Roundabout Revolution

BYLINE: By NEZAR ALSAYYAD. 
Nezar AlSayyad, a professor of architecture, planning and urban history and the chairman of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of ''Cairo: Histories of a City.''

 BODY:
Berkeley, Calif.
IT has become fashionable to refer to the 18-day Egyptian uprising as the ''Facebook revolution,'' much to the dismay of the protesters who riveted the world with their bravery in Cairo's Tahrir Square. But revolutions do not happen in cyberspace, even if they start there. What happened in Tahrir Square during the revolution and the protests happening there now show that even in the 21st century, public space remains the most important arena for dissent and social change.
Tahrir Square's rise to prominence is a testament to how place and history can come together unexpectedly. Although its Arabic name means ''liberation,'' and although it is one of the oldest squares in modern Cairo, Tahrir never carried much meaning for Cairenes until recently.
In fact, the idea of the public square as we know it today did not exist in Egypt or in the cities of the Middle East until colonial times; open spaces were historically situated in front of the main mosque, to accommodate overflow crowds and religious festivals. 
The demonstrations that began in Tahrir Square in January with demands for the overthrow of President Hosni Mubarak continue today with protests of the Egyptian military's management of the revolution's aftermath. Indeed, the interim Egyptian cabinet recently issued a decree criminalizing demonstrations, on the ground that they disrupt the economy, and two protesters in the square were killed last weekend by security forces.
In many ways, it seems an accident of history that Tahrir Square has become a locus of protest and repression. But a closer look reveals that the square's geography and structures, including the burned buildings and pockmarked pavements now engraved in the minds of people all over the globe, embody the shifting political currents of modern Egypt as it encountered colonialism, modernism, Pan-Arabism, socialism and neoliberalism.
To the south of the square stands the Mugamma, a bulky, Soviet-style structure that has long been a symbol of Egypt's monumental bureaucracy. (No Egyptian was able to avoid a trip to that building, in which government offices issued everything from birth certificates to passports.) Overlooking Tahrir Square on the west are the headquarters of the Arab League, with its Islamic architectural motifs, and the former Hilton, the city's first modern hotel (and soon to be a Ritz-Carlton). Just north of the hotel lies the salmon-colored Egyptian Museum and, behind it, the headquarters for Mr. Mubarak's National Democratic Party, with its monotonous Modernist facade left charred by a fire set during this year's protests.
The city's various rulers and regimes, from the pharaohs to Mubarak, have woven themselves in Cairo's urban fabric. When the Fatimid regime established el-Qahira (Cairo is the Anglicized version of that name) in the 10th century, the Nile ran a different course than it does today. The area that later became Tahrir Square was marshland. By the time Napoleon occupied Cairo at the end of the 18th century, the land had dried up enough to allow the French forces to camp there. But it was not for several decades more, until the time of Muhammad Ali, the founder of modern Egypt, that engineers were able to stabilize the Nile's banks enough to allow the square to be born as a green field.
The 500-acre open space was home to cultivated fields, gardens and several royal palaces during Khedive Ismail's reign, from 1863 to 1879. Ismail, the grandson of Muhammad Ali, came to be known as the founder of modern Cairo.
Having lived in Paris as it rebuilt itself into a city of broad boulevards and roundabouts, Ismail embarked on a similar project of modernizing Cairo during the 1860s. Both a district and the square that eventually became Tahrir were initially named Ismailia in his honor.
Ismail's modernization projects plunged the country into great debt, and he was ousted by foreign forces in 1879. The British occupation of Egypt soon ensued, lasting into the mid-20th century. The British stationed their troops west of the square in Ismailia, in what Egyptians often called the English Barracks.
In the early 20th century, the Ismailia district became downtown Cairo and expanded toward the square, which was redesigned with a roundabout at the southern end to improve the flow of cars. A few decades later, during the reign of King Farouk, the square acquired a large empty pedestal that Cairenes who lived through those years still remember with great nostalgia. Farouk had commissioned a statue of his grandfather, Khedive Ismail, but by the time it arrived years later, reverence for the monarchy had given way to the Egyptian Republic and nascent Pan-Arabism -- and the statue never took its place on that pedestal. The Arab League headquarters, a symbol of this new era and ideology, was constructed at the western side of the square and became a monument to the dream of Arab unity.
The square witnessed its first demonstrations on Feb. 11, 1946, when opposition to the British presence in Egypt led to protests and skirmishes with the police, resulting in the death of two dozen Egyptians. Dissatisfaction with King Farouk's government brought protests that ignited the Great Fire of Cairo on Jan. 25, 1952. A few buildings in the square were casualties of the blaze. (On the same day, 59 years later, Egyptians descended upon Tahrir Square in unprecedented numbers to protest their government.)
The 1952 fire was a precursor to an army coup, led by Gamal Abdel Nasser, which transformed Egypt from a sleepy kingdom into a revolutionary anti-imperialist republic. In the following decade, Nasser's government issued a decree changing the name of the square from Ismailia to Tahrir to commemorate the departure of the British from Egypt.
In 1959, the Nile Hilton opened on the site of the former English Barracks, inaugurating the era of mass tourism in Egypt. Next to it was a building that became the headquarters of Nasser's Arab Socialist Union, the party that governed Egypt as a police state for much of his rule. This was the same building that Mr. Mubarak's National Democratic Party later inherited as its headquarters.
After Nasser's death in 1970, President Anwar el-Sadat renamed Tahrir for his predecessor and rumor had it that a statue of Nasser would sit atop the pedestal once intended for Khedive Ismail -- but the name never stuck and the statue never came.
The unoccupied pedestal remained in the square until the mid-1970s, when construction of a station for the Cairo metro system necessitated its removal. Its pieces now lie forgotten in a storage yard on the outskirts of Cairo.
Today, as the dust settles over the few remaining tents and the scarred sidewalks of Tahrir Square, a quiet revolution is taking place in all sectors of Egyptian urban life -- one that has largely gone unnoticed. Students in schools and universities are demanding a say in their curriculum, government employees are refusing to work unless given raises, many of the Islamist activists and fundamentalists who have been jailed for decades have been released and now make regular television appearances, and the despised police have been replaced by soldiers serving as traffic cops. The neighborhood watch groups and committees that sprung up during the revolution to coordinate security and deliver services have also disappeared now that most people have gone back to work.
For a city of more than 11 million people, this new order could be a recipe for instability or it could usher in a new era of democratic participation. When I visited Tahrir Square a few weeks ago, the situation was volatile and the euphoria of the revolution had subsided. The mood of the city remains tense, and many Cairenes are realizing that the military, which is heavily invested in the Egyptian economy and unwilling to tolerate dissent or criticism of its behavior, is not on their side. The slogan chanted during the revolution -- ''The people and the army are one hand!'' -- now rings hollow.
The Egyptian people have long accepted July 23, 1952, as their day of revolution, but they never recognized Tahrir Square as the symbol of their liberation. That changed on Jan. 25. But the new government's crackdown on protests may yet deny Tahrir Square the name that it has finally earned. We can only hope that the Egyptians who massed in the square to demand their rights will be able to reclaim that name before Tahrir simply becomes yet another Martyrs' Square.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTO NGAI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); RELIGION (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



336 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Naming Culprits in the Financial Crisis

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
A voluminous report on the financial crisis by the United States Senate -- citing internal documents and private communications of bank executives, regulators, credit ratings agencies and investors -- describes business practices that were rife with conflicts during the mortgage mania and reckless activities that were ignored inside the banks and among their federal regulators.
The 650-page report, ''Wall Street and the Financial Crisis: Anatomy of a Financial Collapse,'' was released Wednesday by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, whose co-chairmen are Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, and Tom Coburn, a Republican of Oklahoma. The result of two years' work, the report focuses on an array of institutions with central roles in the mortgage crisis: Washington Mutual, an aggressive mortgage lender that collapsed in 2008; the Office of Thrift Supervision, a regulator; the credit ratings agencies Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service; and the investment banks Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank.
''The report pulls back the curtain on shoddy, risky, deceptive practices on the part of a lot of major financial institutions,'' Mr. Levin said in an interview. ''The overwhelming evidence is that those institutions deceived their clients and deceived the public, and they were aided and abetted by deferential regulators and credit ratings agencies who had conflicts of interest.'' 
The bipartisan report includes 19 recommendations for changes to regulatory and industry practices. These include creating strong conflict-of-interest policies at the nation's banks and requiring that banks hold higher reserves against risky mortgages. The report also asks federal regulators to examine its findings for violations of laws.
The report adds significant new evidence to previously disclosed material showing that a wide swath of the financial industry chose profits over propriety during the mortgage lending spree. It also casts a harsh light on what the report calls regulatory failures, which helped deepen the crisis.
Singled out for criticism is the Office of Thrift Supervision, which oversaw some of the nation's most aggressive lenders, including Countrywide Financial, IndyMac and Washington Mutual, whose chief executive was Kerry Killinger. Noting that the agency's officials viewed the institutions it regulated as ''constituents,'' the report said that the office relied on bank executives to correct identified problems and was reluctant to interfere with ''even unsound lending and securitization practices'' at Washington Mutual.
The report describes how two risk managers at the bank were marginalized by its executives. One of them told the committee that executives began providing the regulator with outdated loss estimates as the mortgage crisis widened. After the risk manager told regulators that the estimates it had received were dated, Mr. Killinger fired him.
From 2004 to 2008, for example, the regulatory office identified more than 500 serious deficiencies at Washington Mutual, yet did not force the bank to improve its lending operations, according to the report. And when the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the bank's backup regulator, moved to downgrade the bank's safety and soundness rating in September 2008, John M. Reich, the director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, wrote an angry e-mail to a colleague. Referring to Sheila Bair, the F.D.I.C. chairwoman, he wrote: ''I cannot believe the continuing audacity of this woman.'' Washington Mutual failed two weeks later.
The office was abolished last year, and its operations were folded into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Mr. Reich declined to comment. A lawyer for Mr. Killinger did not respond to a request for comment.
The report was produced by the same Senate committee that conducted an 11-hour hearing last April with Goldman executives and employees of its mortgage unit, who testified about their trading and securities underwriting practices.
At the hearing, some lawmakers questioned Goldman's assertion that it had not bet against the mortgage market as real estate prices collapsed. And on Wednesday, Senator Levin pointed out that his committee had found 3,400 places in Goldman documents where its officials used the phrase ''net short,'' a reference to negative bets.
''Why would Goldman deny what was so obvious, that they were engaged in a huge short in the year 2007?'' Senator Levin asked in a press briefing Wednesday morning. ''Because they gained at the expense of their clients and they used abusive practices to do it.''
The report uncovered a new aspect of Goldman's mortgage activity during 2007. That year, as Goldman tried to build its bet against housing, the report says, it drove down the cost of shorting the mortgage market by squeezing those who had made negative bets. Goldman tried to put on the squeeze, the report noted, so that it could add to its negative bets more cheaply and protect itself against the housing collapse.
Because Goldman was a large dealer in the marketplace, it had the power to drive prices in a certain direction. The report quotes from the self-evaluation of Deeb Salem, a mortgage trader, who wrote: ''We began to encourage this squeeze, with plans of getting very short again.'' He added, ''This strategy seemed do-able and brilliant.''
Michael Swenson, head of trading in the structured product group at Goldman and Mr. Salem's superior, also referred to the short squeeze, according to Senate investigators. In an e-mail, Mr. Swenson said that Goldman should ''start killing'' investors who were betting against mortgages. In testimony before the committee, however, he said he was simply trying to add balance to the market.
Goldman abandoned its plan in June 2007 when two Bear Stearns hedge funds collapsed because of bad mortgage bets.
A Goldman spokesman said in a statement: ''While we disagree with many of the conclusions of the report, we take seriously the issues explored by the subcommittee. We recently issued the results of a comprehensive examination of our business standards and practices and committed to making significant changes that will strengthen relationships with clients, improve transparency and disclosure and enhance standards for the review, approval and suitability of complex instruments.''
The report also sheds new light on the bundling and trading of mortgages at Deutsche Bank, which had also made negative bets in that market.
Unlike Goldman, Deutsche Bank has not been accused of wrongdoing by government investigators. But the Senate report focuses on a trader named Greg Lippmann, who has since left the bank to join a hedge fund.
Mr. Lippmann was vocally negative about housing as early as 2005 and brought his idea of shorting the market to professional investors on Wall Street. He described risky mortgage securities before the crisis as ''pigs,'' according to the report. When he was asked to buy one such mortgage security, he responded that he ''would take it and try to dupe someone,'' according to the report.
Mr. Lippmann persuaded Deutsche to let him build a large short position, reaching $5 billion by 2007, the report says. The bank still lost money on other positive mortgage bets, but Mr. Lippmann's trade helped reduce the company's overall loss.
The report focused on one Deutsche collateralized debt obligation from 2006, called Gemstone VII, and described how Deutsche and other banks made $5 million to $10 million for every deal like Gemstone they created. In 2006 and 2007, banks created about a trillion dollars of C.D.O. deals -- the most complex type of mortgage security and the instruments that sent the lending craze to dizzying heights.
In e-mails provided to the committee, Mr. Lippmann called the bank's operation a ''C.D.O. machine'' and characterized such securities as a ''Ponzi scheme.'' But when the committee interviewed Mr. Lippmann, he backtracked, saying that his colorful descriptions were used to defend his negative view of the market.
In the Senate interview, Mr. Lippmann also said that he thought he was the person who persuaded the American International Group to stop writing insurance on mortgage securities. He told the committee that the head of the Deutsche Bank group that put together C.D.O.'s was upset when Mr. Lippmann persuaded A.I.G. to exit the business in 2006. Without A.I.G. there to insure the instruments, it would be harder to keep these lucrative factories humming.
Mr. Lippmann declined to comment on Wednesday.
Michele Allison, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, said that the e-mails and other documents cited in the report indicated the divergent views within the bank about the housing market. ''Despite the bearish views held by some, Deutsche Bank was long the housing market and endured significant losses,'' she said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, left, and Kerry Killinger, the ex-chief executive of Washington Mutual. The report singled out the bank for blame. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT, SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES, RIGHT) (B1)
John Reich, top, formerly of the Office of Thrift Supervision, and Sheila C. Bair, of the F.D.I.C. He disliked her ''audacity.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DENNIS BRACK/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (93%); CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); SECURITIZATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EVIDENCE (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (83%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (79%); KERRY K KILLINGER (78%); SHEILA BAIR (58%); TOM COBURN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011



337 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Despite Setbacks, Arizona Sheriff Won't Yield the Spotlight

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
MESA, Ariz. -- It is not uncommon for law enforcement agencies to have helicopters and planes to patrol from above, but Joe Arpaio, the sheriff of Maricopa County, has created what he calls his own air force: a collection of 30 private planes that his ''air posse'' uses to track illegal immigrants and drug smugglers.
In what Mr. Arpaio is calling Operation Desert Sky, private pilots have begun flying over central Arizona to act as spotters for Maricopa County Sheriff's Department deputies. The overhead surveillance has not yet led to any arrests, two weeks after it began, but Mr. Arpaio said it would have a deterrent effect.
In short, Sheriff Joe -- as he is widely known -- is still at it. 
Despite court setbacks to Arizona's aggressive illegal immigration law, two continuing federal investigations into his law enforcement practices and an audit of his budget released this week that found that millions of dollars had been misspent, the sheriff -- as vividly highlighted by the creation of the Arpaio air force -- is not backing down in his pursuit of illegal immigrants, or the limelight.
''This is just another controversial program that I don't think is controversial,'' Mr. Arpaio said in his characteristic gruff way.
On Wednesday, budget officials in Maricopa County -- a sprawling place as large as some states that includes Phoenix, the country's sixth-largest city -- found that Mr. Arpaio's department had used nearly $100 million in funds meant to run the jails for other activities, including paying the salaries of deputies assigned to his contentious efforts to uncover human smuggling and public corruption.
Mr. Arpaio, who blames accounting errors for the audit finding and accuses critics of trying to exploit it, skipped the budget hearing and instead showed up outside Monte Carlo Dry Cleaners here, where his deputies led away six women who were charged with using false identification to get jobs, a state crime.
As always, the news media were called to capture the tough-talking sheriff, who declared that this represented the 44th business he had raided in search of illegal immigrants in recent years. If he was feeling the heat from the growing criticism of his department, Mr. Arpaio, dressed in a uniform jacket with four gold stars on each shoulder, was not showing it.
Before the dry cleaners, Mr. Arpaio's deputies had raided a string of Pei Wei Asian Diners, detaining scores of workers and prompting the chain to take out a full-page help-wanted ad to keep its kitchens going. Across the region are fast food shops, car washes, furniture stores and other establishments that have had sheriff's deputies unexpectedly rush in demanding papers.
''We're creating vacancies so these businesses can hire people legally,'' Mr. Arpaio said. ''I've just done something for the economy. I don't get enough credit for that, from the Justice Department and the rest of the critics. They just think it's the bad sheriff going in and grabbing dishwashers.''
Maricopa has a love-hate relationship with Mr. Arpaio, 78, an 18-year veteran who has regular protesters outside his downtown offices but still receives kudos from fans on the street and invitations from politicians eager for his endorsement.
Outside the dry cleaners, a man who was not able to drop off some shirts on Wednesday morning, because the store was not accepting new laundry, lauded Mr. Arpaio's raids and declared of the detained workers: ''If they were in the country illegally, they need to get out of here.''
But a woman who was picking up her cleaning was fuming as she waited for the commotion to end. ''We're tired of Sheriff Joe,'' said the woman, who like several others at the scene declined to identify themselves. ''These workers were supporting their families. They weren't violent. This is ridiculous.''
The criticism was just as fierce last month when Mr. Arpaio allowed the actor Steven Seagal to ride in an armored vehicle to execute a search warrant in a major raid on a suspected cockfighting operation.
''I've never seen a bigger spectacle,'' said Robert J. Campos, the lawyer for the accused man, Jesus Llovera. ''You had Steven Seagal on a tank and a SWAT team swarming a home, but the reality is they arrested an unarmed man.''
Mr. Arpaio said Mr. Seagal was one of his many volunteer posse members who help out deputies. But Mr. Campos said the raid was filmed as part of Mr. Seagal's reality television show, ''Lawman,'' on the A&E Network.
To get tips on which business to raid next, Mr. Arpaio uses a confidential hot line, the number of which is emblazoned on the side of the wagon used to transport suspects to Mr. Arpaio's tent-city jail.
''My activist friends don't like it,'' Mr. Arpaio said of the use of tipsters. ''Some politicians don't like it. But I decide what goes on.''
Disgruntled current and former workers make up the most effective informants, deputies say, since they offer the most precise information on suspected illegal immigrants working at a business. Many tips, however, are from customers upset to find so many Latinos working in a particular place.
''We get calls all the time that say, 'There's Hispanics in a McDonald's and they don't speak English,' '' said Lt. Joe Sousa, commander of the department's human smuggling division. ''That's racial profiling, and I ignore that. We need specifics.''
The hot line also receives plenty of calls commenting on Mr. Arpaio. ''A lot of calls are 'Way to go, Joe!' or 'We hate you, Joe.' '' Lieutenant Sousa acknowledged.
Mr. Arpaio has growing competition for the title of the most outspoken Arizona sheriff when it comes to illegal immigration.
Larry Dever, the sheriff of Cochise County, on the Mexican border, recently drew the ire of Michael J. Fisher, chief of the federal Border Patrol, when he claimed that the patrol's agents were intentionally not arresting some illegal immigrants to keep apprehension numbers down. ''Completely, 100 percent false,'' Mr. Fisher responded in a letter.
And Sheriff Paul Babeu of Pinal County has declared his county to be ground zero when it comes to smuggling. In early February, he predicted that his deputies would engage in a major shootout with drug cartel members in a month or two. His remarks prompted three border mayors to write a letter telling him to stop stretching the truth and ''creating panic.''
Mr. Arpaio asked Mr. Babeu to investigate allegations that three of Mr. Arpaio's aides, including his chief deputy, David Hendershott, had engaged in misconduct on the job. Mr. Babeu delivered the results to Mr. Arpaio this week, although they have not yet been made public.
In an interview in his office, Mr. Arpaio was dismissive of the growing chorus of criticism of his stewardship. He said he might introduce a new set of pink underwear for his inmates, a sample of which he pulled out of a filing cabinet with a flourish.
''The president may have a no-fly zone over Libya, but there will never be a no-fly zone over my area,'' he said, pausing for a moment and then adding, ''That's a good line, isn't it?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHERIFF JOE ARPAIO: On enlisting an ''air posse'' of private pilots to track illegal immigrants and drug smugglers in the Phoenix area.
 Sheriff Joe Arpaio, facing two federal inquiries into his law enforcement practices, presses on despite court challenges to Arizona's illegal immigration law. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (94%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); AUDITS (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (68%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); FURNITURE STORES (50%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



338 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Galleon Leader Put Millions Into Ex-Employee's Fund

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
9:09 p.m. Updated
Eight weeks before the start of his trial on insider-trading charges, Raj Rajaratnam's family invested $15 million in a hedge fund started by a former employee who has been testifying this week on Mr. Rajaratnam's behalf.
The investment, which came on top of an initial $10 million made months earlier, was disclosed on Thursday as prosecutors cross-examined Richard Schutte, a former president of Mr. Rajaratnam's Galleon Group. 
Mr. Schutte started his own hedge fund, SpotTail Capital Advisers, as he was unwinding Galleon after Mr. Rajaratnam's arrest in October 2009. Mr. Rajaratnam is by far the largest investor in SpotTail, which manages about $35 million.
Reed Brodsky, a federal prosecutor, finished his cross-examination of Mr. Schutte with this detail, raising the question of whether the investment was in some way compensation for his testimony on Mr. Rajaratnam's behalf.
It was the first time jurors had heard of the investment. On direct examination, the defense had never even mentioned the existence of SpotTail.
The defense quickly sought to defuse the notion that Mr. Rajaratnam's SpotTail investment was meant to encourage Mr. Schutte's testimony. Mr. Rajaratnam respected Mr. Schutte, a former Goldman Sachs analyst, as a money manager, the defense said. After all, he had hired Mr. Schutte to work for him back in 2004 as a portfolio manager.
Azam Ahmed and Guilbert Gates/The New York Times Click on the above graphic to get a visual overview of the Galleon information network.
The moment interrupted what had been an otherwise routine day in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Since taking the stand on Monday, Mr. Schutte has been inundated with exhibits from both defense lawyers and prosecutors in an effort to show whether the information Mr. Rajaratnam used to make his trades was already public.
The defense has tried to show that details about the deals and earnings reports at the center of the insider-trading charges against Mr. Rajaratnam were public and could have been derived from research and analysis.
Over the last few days, with Mr. Schutte on the stand, Mr. Rajaratnam's lawyers have presented hundreds of exhibits to support that thesis, drawing from Galleon e-mails and dozens of articles from research firms and the news media.
But prosecutors have argued that the issue is not whether the information was publicly available as rumor or speculation, but whether Galleon had actually used that information to inform its trades, instead of using confidential information to do so.
While Mr. Schutte's testimony was meant to offer an inside view of Galleon, the next witness on Thursday was meant to provide an outside opinion.
Gregg A. Jarrell, a professor at the business school of the University of Rochester and a former top economist at the Securities and Exchange Commission, was retained by the defense in early 2010 to analyze the trades Mr. Rajaratnam is accused of making with inside information.
So far, he, and the research firm with which he is working to gather the data, are nearing $1 million in billed work, he said.
One thing became abundantly clear in his testimony Thursday: Galleon and its founder, Mr. Rajaratnam, traded a lot.
Mr. Jarrell examined more than a million trades at Galleon from 2005 to 2009, 30,000 of which were completed by Mr. Rajaratnam. That amounts to 7,287 trades a year or about 30 trades a day. In 2009 alone, Mr. Rajaratnam traded shares of more than 600 companies before his arrest.
The dollar amount of Mr. Rajaratnam's trades is staggering. Through the entire five-year period, Mr. Rajaratnam racked up exactly $172,104,508,398 in trades, according to a presentation by the defense. Averaged out, his daily trading volume was $141,533,313.
''It's mind-boggling,'' Mr. Jarrell. ''That's a lot of trading.''
Of all the trades Mr. Rajaratnam conducted in that period, only 126 are suspected to have been based on inside information, or about 0.3 percent, Mr. Jarrell said.
Mr. Jarrell was contracted to conduct so-called event studies, complex statistical models that measure the difference between how a given stock ordinarily reacts to market conditions and how it reacts to a specific related event.
The idea is to determine the significance of material information - like a merger announcement or an earnings release - on the company's share price. The defense spent the rest of Thursday focusing on one stock: Advanced Micro Devices.
Near the end of its case, the government produced an exhibit that tallied all the illicit gains it says Mr. Rajaratnam made. The total was about $63 million, a figure that did not include a transaction in A.M.D. that has been a focus of the trial.
That transaction related to the spinoff of a division of the company, a tip prosecutors have said Mr. Rajaratnam received from a former executive at McKinsey & Company in August 2008, almost two months before the official announcement.
Ultimately, Mr. Jarrell said, Mr. Rajaratnam's bet on A.M.D. turned out to be a major loss. Using the same methodology as the F.B.I., Mr. Jarrell said that Mr. Rajaratnam's trades in A.M.D. had led to more than $67 million in losses. That is almost $4 million more than the $63 million Mr. Rajaratnam is accused of making in illicit profits, he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Schutte, former president of Galleon Group, leaving federal court on Monday. His hedge fund received $25 million in investments from the Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUIS LANZANO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CROSS EXAMINATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



339 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Across Country, They Gather Secretly at Night and Then They (Shhh!) Eat

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Along with big-wave surfing and high-altitude ultramarathons, eating is an extreme sport here. Which explains why, on a recent Saturday night, Tipay Corpuz, 21, a technology specialist for Apple, took a break from blogging about her obsession with fried chicken and waffles to join 2,500 fellow food geeks at the Underground Night Market.
At this quasi-clandestine monthly event, a tribal gathering of young chefs, vendors and their iron-stomached followers are remaking the traditional farmers market as an indie food rave.
At midnight, the smell of stir-fried pork bellies was wafting through the Mission district. There was live music, liquor, bouncers, a disco ball -- and a line waiting to sample hundreds of delicacies made mostly on location, among them bacon-wrapped mochi (a Japanese rice paste) and ice cream made from red beets, Guinness and chocolate cake. 
In a sense it is civil disobedience on a paper plate.
The underground market seeks to encourage food entrepreneurship by helping young vendors avoid roughly $1,000 a year in fees -- including those for health permits and liability insurance -- required by legitimate farmers markets. Here, where the food rave -- call it a crave -- was born, the market organizers sidestep city health inspections by operating as a private club, requiring that participants become ''members'' (free) and sign a disclaimer noting that food might not be prepared in a space that has been inspected.
Members of the gathering have few qualms about the sampling. ''I want something savory and awesome,'' said David McDonald, who works with Ms. Corpuz and estimates that he spends 40 percent of his income on dinners. ''I want food that will put me in a coma before I go to sleep.''
Fueled by Twitter and food blogs, the market has spawned a host of underground imitators in places like Washington and Atlanta, where about 1,000 people showed up for the first of a series of monthly Saturday night craves -- and where Tim Ho, a young Taiwanese-American who cooks part-time, boasted that his jellyfishsalad has a crunch he compared to ''tendons and ligaments.'' There are outposts as far as London and Amsterdam.
Even mainstream farmers markets are creeping toward nighttime, including a Friday evening market in Nashville near the State Capitol where homeward-bound workers can drink wine as they chat about kale.
The ''underground'' strategy adds cachet. Participants ''have to know the ins and outs of the belly of the city just to find the place,'' said Roger Feely, a San Francisco chef well-known for giving ''pop-up'' dinner parties in alleyways. (New York City, too, has a plethora of pop-up restaurants of various kinds, but it has been less hospitable to unlicensed vendors.)
Where psychedelic drugs famously transported another self-conscious San Francisco generation, the rebel act of choice by Valerie Luu, 23, a first-generation Vietnamese chef, is deep-frying string cheese in a cast-iron pan.
''When I was their age I was doing drugs and going to rock shows,'' said Novella Carpenter, an urban farmer and author who recently got into a spat with the City of Oakland for selling chard and other produce at a pop-up farm stand without a permit. ''That's not their culture,'' she continued. ''Their culture is food -- incredible yummy-tasting food.''
Some see the growth of the underground markets as part of a high renaissance of awareness for a Fast Food Nation generation, with its antipathy for the industrial food machine. In the recesses of the markets, a certain self-expressive, do-it-yourself ''craftness'' flourishes.
''It connects the D.I.Y. movement with the locavore movement,'' said Maya Robinson, an accountant who does work for the United States Treasury who founded Grey DC, an underground market in Washington modeled on the San Francisco idea. ''That cross-section is what's so exciting.''
The underground market here, which also has a less chic daytime component, was started by Iso Rabins, 30, the founder of ForageSF, a company that began with foraging walks and dinners featuring dishes like wild nettle soup with creme fraiche.
He started in 2009 from a private home after observing that many friends could not afford to sell at farmers markets, which requires business and product liability insurance (around $250), space rental ($40 to $55 a day), yearly member fees (around $110), and a health and safety permit (about $500). The use of commercial kitchens would cost an additional $45 to $75 an hour, Mr. Rabins noted, and making jam can take eight hours or more. ''The small-batch economics just don't work,'' he said.
The goal is to be an incubator for culinary start-ups, and be a profit-making venture. Vendors pay $50 to reserve a cooking space and return 10 percent of sales over $500 to ForageSF. ''The feeling in the food community is that if you're making money, it's not something you're passionate about,'' Mr. Rabins said. ''But if we actually want to change anything -- dedicate our lives to it -- we need to make money doing it,'' he said.
Amateur cooks around the country are pushing to have the right to sell unlicensed goods directly to consumers. So-called ''cottage food'' laws that allow products considered nonhazardous, like pies and cookies, exist in 18 states, with five more considering similar legislation.
Anya Fernald, who produces the Eat Real Festival in Oakland and Los Angeles, sees the phenomenon as a search for healthier alternatives to commercial industrial food. At the San Francisco Night Market this month, which ran until 2 a.m. in a mammoth public events space, Ms. Fernald was serving up macaroni made of nutrient-rich spelt flour that she had smothered in cheese. Clad in a June Lockhart-style apron, she said cooks and consumers were ''aware they need to do something. But undoing those choices is not very simple.''
There were so many choices at the market that flitting from the Meatballer to the Pizza Hacker threatened to simulate the internal somersaults associated with an out-of-control Tilt-A-Whirl.
While offbeat cooking remains just a hobby for some, Kai Kronfield of Nosh This said he was inspired by the economic downturn to forsake his old profession: designing houses in Pacific Heights and Pebble Beach. Mr. Kronfield now designs candies -- black-pepper scented caramels, for instance, or toffees with sea salt and locally sourced bacon.
He had never made a piece of candy until a year ago, he said, but learned the art by watching a lot of videos. He said he was heading next to the sold-out Baconfest Chicago celebration, billed as a ''baconalia.''
''I'm running with this,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A pop-up restaurant set up for one evening in the Mission district of San Francisco this month.
Valerie Luu, a 23-year-old chef, served some of the guests at the increasingly popular gatherings.
 Organizers get around regulations for farmers markets by calling themselves a private club and requiring participants to become ''members.'' More photographs at nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); INSPECTIONS (87%); WATER SPORTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); EXTREME SPORTS (78%); SURFING (78%); PORK (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); MARATHONS (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (53%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (52%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



340 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: A Tea Party Congressman Cultivates His Base

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Just as dairy cows, oxen and horses once called a 19th-century northwest suburban barn home, an assuredly more fleeting but vocal species found comfort there Monday evening: a Tea Party congressman and his partisans.
Representative Joe Walsh, a no-shot candidate who scored an upset last November, held the 20th town-hall-style meeting of an early and so far fearless Congressional career -- this time in an elegantly restored barn that serves as the community center in Deer Park, population 3,300, and is surrounded by wetlands, walking paths and a butterfly garden. 
''If you're going to pay attention ever to what's going on in this country, make it now!'' Mr. Walsh said with rising, theatrical emphasis after leading all in the Pledge of Allegiance. ''Pay attention now!''
The Eighth District congressman was the disciplined ringmaster at a Lake County event that reflected the richly ambiguous state of our current politics as well as the evolution of a politician who was high on gumption, low on cash and forsaken by the Republican Party even after winning its six-person primary and challenging a Democratic incumbent, Melissa Bean.
An impassioned, far-over-capacity crowd of more than 150 people jammed a second floor where hay was once stored in a multistory, so-called ''bank'' barn popular long ago. Most of the attendees were in their 50s and 60s, with their cable television preference being the Fox News Channel. Thus they tend to be dubious of President Obama, even if they remain conflicted about matters like rampant budget-cutting that may cost them personally.
With a few Democrats and independents in the mix, they exhibited both sophistication about the political process and conspiracy-driven ignorance. Isolationism melded with a craving to track down terrorists, and one found equal suspicion of illegal immigrants, the Federal Reserve, the Department of Education and tax-avoiding Fortune 500 companies.
''We are cutting government -- that's a good thing,''said Mr. Walsh, 49. ''But there's a part of me that thinks it's not enough. I came to defund Obamacare. I came to defund Planned Parenthood.''
To no surprise, his rhetorical query about whether he should vote to raise the debt ceiling, a much-discussed coming debate, was greeted with an overwhelming ''No.''
Mr. Walsh is sticking to his ideological guns. He has been an anti-spending, anti-subsidy diehard, opposing even the Midwest's cherished ethanol subsidies. He didn't sign up for Congressional health insurance and pension plans he deems too generous, and he is convinced that most politicians, even some newbie colleagues, ''want to be something, not do something,'' and are addicted to power and perks.
Indeed, he called many politicians chicken when it comes to holding meetings like his, fearing that their remarks could be taped and possibly used against them. For himself, he said, he didn't care.
When Mr. Walsh derided fellow Republicans for tolerating ''welfare for the rich and corporations at the expense of small business,'' he got little pushback. But when Donna Gerstung, a retired computer programmer from Palatine, rebutted one man's statement that the poor don't pay taxes, an unprintable slur came her way from the back of the room, along with the declaration, ''You're in the Obama camp!''
Mr. Walsh insisted that the meeting should proceed with no filibusters, and with respect toward dissenting views, chiding all such nastiness. After ditching his suit jacket and tie, he was a hybrid of elementary-school teacher, drill sergeant and affable TV talk show host in the Phil Donahue genre.
Willing to cut people short, he forced an informative efficiency that this crowd wouldn't associate with, say, government. When a question was convoluted or unrealistic -- one man jabbered about heavily taxing the profits of union pension funds -- he smilingly responded, ''Interesting, should be explored,'' and moved on. Some bona fide concerns were purely local, like those about Canadian National Railway's purchase of the Elgin, Eastern & Joliet Railroad and problems related to increased freight train traffic in the area. Most were more national.
The most unconvincing matter involved jobs. Mr. Walsh, strongly supporting the value of budget cuts, didn't relate them persuasively to economic growth and issues like educating young people. Then, again, few people do, especially amid tricky international competition.
When I tracked him down the next day, Mr. Walsh said he had discerned a slight shift in conservatives' thinking, with a new sliver of pragmatism. When it comes to Social Security, he said, he could see them backing a rise in the retirement age.
As for the latest short-term budget agreement, the firebrand representative heard citizens telling him, ''Take the deal and move on.'' But he stuck to his guns, decided it fell short and on Thursday voted no.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); DEBT CEILING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (71%); WETLANDS (70%); WALKING & JOGGING (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); CONSPIRACY (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%); ALCOHOLS (65%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); TERRORISM (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (60%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); MELISSA L BEAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



341 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 2017 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO

 BODY:
Around Town
Museums and Sites
Brooklyn Historical Society (Friday through Thursday) ''Magnet for the Masses: When Theater Was Paramount in Brooklyn,'' a conference on the cultural importance of the Paramount Theater -- now part of the downtown Brooklyn campus of Long Island University -- will feature discussions and performances on Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; the singer and songwriter Billy Dawn Smith and the radio host Don K Reed will be among the participants. The free event will take place at the site of the onetime theater, 1 University Plaza, at Dekalb and Flatbush Avenues, where there is now a gymnasium. Reservations are required: (718) 309-9200. On Thursday at 6 p.m., the ethnomusicologist Anne Rasmussen will discuss ''Middle Eastern Music in Brooklyn.'' The event is part of a free series presented by the Center for Traditional Music and Dance that will run through June 16 at various locations. On view through Aug. 14, ''Home Base: Memories of the Brooklyn Dodgers at Ebbets Field,'' which tells the story of the baseball team, its legendary stadium and the Brooklynites who loved them, with photographs, oral histories and archival material. 
128 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn Heights , (718) 422-4111, brooklynhistory.org; free with admission: $6; $4 for students, teachers and 62+; free for those under 12 and members. Hours: Wednesday to Friday, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 5 p.m.20110414
Morgan Library & Museum (Thursday) Diaries of Charlotte Bronte, Tennessee Williams, Henry David Thoreau, Anais Nin and others will provide the material for a reading by the actors Barbara Feldon and Paul Hecht at 7 p.m. The event is in conjunction with ''The Diary: Three Centuries of Private Lives,'' which is on view through May 22; the exhibition will be open on Thursday at 6 p.m. for a special pre-event viewing. Otherwise, viewing hours are Tuesday through Thursday, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Friday, 10:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, Ext. 560, themorgan.org. Reading, $20; $15 for members. Museum admission, $15; $10 for children under 16; 65+ and students.20110414
Morris-Jumel Mansion (Saturday) Brooklyn Baroque performs a concert of Venetian Baroque music, with works by Vivaldi, Lotti, Castello and others, at 4 p.m. Reservations are required: (212) 923-8008. 65 Jumel Terrace, at 161st Street, east of St. Nicholas Avenue, Harlem , morrisjumel.org; $25, or $20 for members.20110414
Museum of the City of New York (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday through Thursday) On view through mid-August, ''Joel Grey/A New York Life,'' an exhibition of items related to Mr. Grey's career as well as his photographs of New York City. On display through May 1, ''Ain't Nothing Like the Real Thing: How the Apollo Theater Shaped American Entertainment.'' On Sunday, a walking tour of Seventh Avenue in Harlem, sponsored by the museum and Harlem One Stop, meeting at the museum at 2:30 p.m.; $40, includes museum admission and lunch; harlemonestop.com. Museum hours: Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org; museum admission: $10; $6 for students and 65+; or free for under 12 and members.20110414
New York Public Library for the Performing Arts (Saturday) A screening of ''The Yellow Bittern: The Life and Times of Liam Clancy'' (2001) by Alan Gilsenan, part of a series presented by the Irish Film Institute and in conjunction with ''Ireland America: The Ties That Bind,'' an exhibition on the enduring Irish art of performance; at 6:30 p.m. The exhibition includes scores, books, posters, recordings and video segments and is on view through Aug. 13. New York University's Glucksman Ireland House is a co-sponsor of the exhibition. Exhibition hours: Friday, Saturday, Tuesday and Wednesday, noon to 6 p.m., and Monday and Thursday, noon to 8 p.m., 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 642-0142, nypl.org; free.20110414
Events
Aging and Nature in Photography (Friday, Saturday, and Tuesday through Thursday) An aging population in the United States and ecological issues in Madagascar are the subjects of two photography displays, ''Aging in America'' and ''Madagascar,'' by the photojournalist Ed Kashi. Tuesdays through Saturdays from noon to 4 p.m. through May 14. World Financial Center, Courtyard Gallery, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan , (212) 945-0505, artsworldfinancialcenter.com; free.20110414
Art for Change: 'Faces of the Economy' (Friday) This group art exhibition, which focuses on how individuals and families are facing the pressures of a tight economy, will have its opening reception from 7 to 11 p.m.; the show will be up through July 9. Sponsored by Art for Change, an organization that advocates social justice through art and media programs. 1699 Lexington Avenue, lower level, near 106th Street, Harlem , (212) 348-7044, artforchange.org; free.20110414
Astor Place Festival (Saturday) 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Astor Place, Lafayette Street to Broadway, East Village.20110414
Coney Island Opening Weekend (Saturday and Sunday) Free rides, contests and giveaways are planned for the season opening of the Brooklyn amusement center. Luna Park and the Cyclone will open at 12:30 p.m. , with free Cyclone rides offered to the first 100 visitors in line; lunaparknyc.com. On Sunday at 11 a.m., a blessing of the rides will take place at the entrance to Deno's Wonder Wheel Amusement Park, with half-price rides on the Wonder Wheel available for the first 100 people in line. A preview of the new exhibition space operated by the Coney Island History Project, 12th Street and the Boardwalk, near Deno's Wonder Wheel Amusement Park, will open on Saturday at 1 p.m.; it is scheduled to open officially with a new exhibition over the Memorial Day weekend. lunaparknyc.com; www.coneyislandhistory.org; coneyislandhistory.org. Surf Avenue, near West 10th Street, Coney Island, Brooklyn.20110414
'Do Something Reel' Film Festival (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday through Thursday) For those craving to learn more about the foods we eat and the way we treat the environment, this nationwide film series sponsored by Whole Foods Market is tackling these issues. The Manhattan festival will open on Friday with ''Planeat,'' a film by Shelley Lee Davies and Or Shlomi about the benefits of a vegetarian diet in a mostly carnivorous world. Other films in the series will cover school lunches, strip mining, city-grown food, plastics and vanishing bees. Each screening is at 6 p.m.; schedule: dosomethingreel.com. City Cinemas Village East, 181-189 Second Avenue, at East 12th Street, East Village ; each screening, $13.20110414
Latin American Artists' Show (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) It's the last week to catch ''Transformation,'' an art exhibition featuring the work of Latin American artists Juandres Vera and Fernando Villalvazo. In conjunction with the group Las Belles Artes. (Through next Friday.) From 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., P.J.H. Exhibitions, 228 West 14th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-2427, pjs-exhibitions.com.20110414
'Sanctuary Project' (Thursday) The ensemble Lunatics at Large presents an evening of commissioned music and poems based on the theme of sanctuary; the poets will also take part. WMP Concert Hall, 31 East 28th Street, Manhattan , (212) 582-7536, lunaticsensemble.com; $20, or $10 for students and 65+.20110414
'Springtime Wonder Cabinet' (Saturday) A performance by the saxophonist Colin Stetson will open a daylong arts festival featuring film and video screenings, discussions and performances by those in the arts and sciences; 10:45 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Sponsored by the New York Institute for the Humanities at New York University. Schedule: nyihumanities.org. Cantor Film Center at New York University, 36 East Eighth Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 998-2101; free.20110414
'Thalia Follies: A Political Cabaret' (Saturday) Songs and comedy sketches inspired by current events will be performed by cabaret and Broadway artists and others, including Marty Markowitz, Brooklyn borough president; at 8 p.m. The event is sponsored by Symphony Space and its artistic director, Isaiah Sheffer. Kingsborough Community College, Performing Arts Center, 2001 Oriental Boulevard, Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn , (718) 368-5596, kcckpac.org; $25.20110414
West Side Spring Festival (Sunday) 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Broadway, between 96th and 106th Streets.20110414
Spoken Word
New York University's Creative Writing Program (Friday and Thursday) On Friday from 3 to 7 p.m., the writers Jonathan Galassi, Janet Malcolm, Lorrie Moore, Gary Shteyngart, Gay Talese and others will discuss their work with the poet Deborah Landau and the writer Katie Roiphe. The event takes place at 20 Cooper Square, near Fifth Street, and is co-sponsored by the Paris Review and New York University's Creative Writing Program. On Thursday at 7 p.m., Rae Meadows, author of ''Mothers and Daughters'' (Henry Holt), will speak about her book with Darin Strauss, author of ''Half a Life'' (McSweeney's); the discussion will take place at the Lillian Vernon Creative Writers House, 59 West 10th Street, Greenwich Village. (212) 998-8816, cwp.fas.nyu.edu; free.20110414
'Radio Happy Hour' (Saturday) This live variety series, which blends a radio-style comedy or drama with musical performances and guest conversations, features the musician Franz Nicolay, who has appeared with the rock group the Hold Steady and others. At 2 p.m.; doors open at 1 p.m. Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, near Thompson Street, Greenwich Village , radiohappyhour.com; $10; $15 day of show.20110414
Walking Tours
Garment Center Walking Tour (Monday) A discussion of the changing garment industry on a walk through the fashion district with Mike Kaback, meeting at 1411 Broadway, on the southwest corner of Broadway and 39th Street. At 10 a.m.; reservations requested. (212) 370-4214, mikesnyctours.com; $20.20110414
In and Out of the Fort: New Amsterdam Life (Saturday) A Lower Manhattan walk that focuses on the area's Dutch history will meet at 11 a.m. at the National Museum of the American Indian, 1 Bowling Green. Sponsored by Dering Walking Tours. (646) 573-9509; $20, or $15 for students and 65+.20110414
In Depth Walking Tours (Saturday) A 90-minute tour of the sites that Ayn Rand featured in her novel ''Atlas Shrugged'' will meet on the southeast corner of Park Avenue and East 50th Street. At 11 a.m., (917) 607-9019, indepthwalkingtours.com; $20, or $15 for 65+.20110414
Joyce Gold History Tours of New York (Sunday) The ''Jewish Harlem'' tour includes sites associated with Richard Rodgers, Arthur Miller and Oscar Hammerstein, meeting outside the New York State Office Building, 125th Street and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard. (212) 242-5762, joycegoldhistorytours.com; $15, or $12 for 62+.20110414
Municipal Art Society (Saturday and Sunday) ''Sharing the Streets: Buses, Bikes and Pedestrians,'' a walking tour that looks at the city's reconfigured public spaces, with some bus and subway travel mixed in, meets on Saturday at 11 a.m. at the Select Bus stop outside the Staten Island Ferry Terminal in Lower Manhattan. ''Upstairs/Downstairs: The Upper East Side'' -- a historical look at the wealthy inhabitants of the area, as well as those of more modest incomes -- meets at 11 a.m. on the southeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 62nd Street. Reservations are needed: (212) 935-3960. mas.org/tours; each tour $15, or $10 for members.20110414
Recreation
City Parks Foundation Run for the Parks Four-Mile and Kids' Races (Sunday) A four-mile run begins at 8 a.m. in Central Park, on the East Drive at 68th Street; races for children 2 to 12 begin at 9 a.m. (212) 860-4455, nyrr.org; registration through Saturday: $37; $23 for members; $15 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $40; $25 for members; $20 for 18 and younger and 62+. Kids' races: $6 in advance, $8 on Sunday. Proceeds benefit arts and educational programs presented by the City Parks Foundation.20110414
ANNE MANCUSO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OPENING WEEKEND AT CONEY ISLAND: (Saturday and Sunday) The arrival of spring means different things to different people. Season openers for baseball fans. Blooming flowers for gardeners. And for die-hard fans of Coney Island, it means time to line up for the Cyclone. On Saturday beginning at 12:30 p.m., the first 100 people in line will get to ride the monster roller coaster free as part of opening-day festivities at the historic Brooklyn amusement area. Other rides in Luna Park and Deno's Wonder Wheel Amusement Park will also be open for business on Saturday. An annual blessing of the rides will take place on Sunday at 11 a.m. -- as it has for more than 30 years -- at the entrance to the Wonder Wheel, at 12th Street and the Boardwalk. When the Wheel starts up at 11:30, the first 100 people can ride for half-price. And the Coney Island History Project will open its doors on Saturday at 1 p.m. for a weekend preview at its new location, near the Wonder Wheel
it is scheduled to open officially with a new exhibition over the Memorial Day weekend. (A bit of history above: Coney Island in April 1949.) Coney Island, Surf Avenue and the Boardwalk
lunaparknyc.com
www.wonderwheel.com
 coneyislandhistory.org. Be kind to your fellow riders: save the hot dogs for after the ride. (Anne Mancuso) (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HORN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); MUSIC (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); BASEBALL (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); DANCE (73%); CHILDREN (72%); SPORTS FANS (71%); SONG WRITING (71%); LIBRARIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



342 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Study Ties Suicide Rate in Work Force to Economy

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
The suicide rate increased 3 percent in the 2001 recession and has generally ridden the tide of the economy since the Great Depression, rising in bad times and falling in good ones, according to a comprehensive government analysis released Thursday.
Experts said the new study may help clarify a long-clouded relationship between suicide and economic trends. 
While many researchers have argued that economic hardship can raise the likelihood of suicide in people who are already vulnerable -- like those with depression or other mental illnesses -- research has been mixed. Some studies have supported such a link, but others have found the opposite: that rates drop in periods of high unemployment, as if people exhibit resilience when they need it most.
Using more comprehensive data to nail down economic trends, the new study found a clear correlation between suicide rates and the business cycle among young and middle-age adults. That correlation vanished when researchers looked only at children and the elderly. It may not be the case that economic troubles cause suicide attempts, but they can be factors.
''They did a nice job of adding a piece to a very complex puzzle,'' said Eve Moscicki, a researcher at the American Psychiatric Institute for Research and Education who was not involved in the study. ''It may be that when people who are more vulnerable to suicide to begin with lose a job or get a pay cut, it adds one more stressor.''
In the study, which appears in The American Journal of Public Health, researchers at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention examined suicide rates per 100,000 Americans for every year from 1928 to 2007.
The overall rate fell by more than a third in that time, to 11.2 from 18.0, with most of the decline occurring before 1945. It fluctuated in the mid-1950s, trended upward through the late 1970s, and back down between the mid-1980s and 2000. Over the years, researchers have attributed this general downward trend to improved access to care, rising standards of living and better drugs, among other things.
To investigate the effect of business cycles, the researchers calculated the average rate during periods when the economy contracted and compared it with the average during the years leading to downturns. The sharpest increase occurred at the start of the Great Depression, when rates jumped 23 percent -- to 22.1 in 1932, from 18.0 in 1928. The study found smaller bumps during the oil crisis of the early 1970s and the double-dip recession of the early 1980s, among other economic troughs.
The suicide rate generally fell during periods of economic expansion, with some exceptions. Rates among people in their 30s and 40s went up during the booming 1960s and actually decreased among the elderly in the severe recession of the mid-1970s.
Cultural factors played a role, the authors argue. ''The social unrest and tumult of the 1960s may have added to young people's mental stress and therefore contributed to their continually rising suicide rates,'' they wrote. ''For the elderly groups, the rapid increase in Social Security benefits in the late 1960s may have provided a safety net in hard times.''
Feijun Luo, the lead author of the study, said, ''The findings suggest the potential to see a big increase in the rates during this current recession.'' His co-authors were Curtis S. Florence, Myriam Quispe-Agnoli, Lijing Ouyang, and Dr. Alexander E. Crosby, all of the C.D.C.
Suicide is impossible to predict, and rare even in the most dire circumstances, which is why prevention programs and early treatments have had mixed results. Most address specific problems like substance abuse, depression, isolation and troubled family relationships. But this study should give communities and doctors a better sense not only of when risk is high, but in whom -- working-age adults, in this case.
''Once people age out of the work force, there seems to be no relationship between the business cycle and their vulnerability,'' Dr. Florence said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Suicide and Business Cycles: A study found that the overall suicide rate tends to fall during economic expansions and rise during recessions, which are marked with dark bands below. (Source: American Journal of Public Health) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (95%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); CHILDREN (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



343 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Tribeca Turns 10: Films on Rebels, Rock and Real Life

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Yikes! Is the Tribeca Film Festival's 10th year already upon us? It was just the other day, it seems, that the festival barged into the neighborhood and, despite its good will, was greeted with a raised eyebrow by snooty cinephiles for its free-for-all mixture of art, entertainment and community development.
The grumbling about Tribeca, which runs from Wednesday through May 1 at movie theaters around Manhattan, has since subsided. A potpourri of cinema and razzle-dazzle with one eye trained on Hollywood, it is a known quantity. Nowadays Tribeca is not considered a threat to the status quo but a useful cultural stimulant that has been good for movies and good for New York, particularly the Lower Manhattan neighborhood left broken in the wake of 9/11. Estimates of the economic activity it has generated since its inception exceed $600 million.
''It wasn't started as a traditional film festival,'' said Jane Rosenthal, a Tribeca founder and its chief executive. ''My sole goal was to bring people back downtown.'' 
Sandwiched between the New Directors/New Films series presented by the Museum of Modern Art and the Film Society of Lincoln Center, and the Cannes Film Festival, it has not seriously raided anyone else's territory. A few movies being shown this year were previously seen at Sundance, Toronto or elsewhere, but not that many.
The emphasis, as usual, is on new work, some of it involving marquee names like the director Cameron Crowe (the opening-night film ''The Union''), Will Ferrell (who stars in the indie comedy ''Everything Must Go''), the director Michael Winterbottom (the comedy ''The Trip'') and the writer and director Edward Burns (the closing film, ''Newlyweds,'' set in Manhattan).
The selections, however quirky, offer crucial exposure, as well as a marketing platform, for serious independent filmmakers from around the world. The festival's popcorn quotient is minimal to nonexistent. Over the next year or two, scores of movies presented by Tribeca will open commercially. Tribeca Film, the festival's movie releasing arm, will also introduce 26 films via video on demand over the coming months.
Among more than 5,600 submissions from 40 countries, this year's crop includes 47 world premieres. Of the 104 feature film directors represented, 27 are women.
The world narrative feature and the world documentary feature competitions are where Tribeca puts its aesthetic taste on the line. If the 12 films in each category are conceptually as wide-ranging as those at Cannes or Sundance, Tribeca has yet to have a significant impact as a directorial star-making vehicle. More prestigious festivals continue to skim off the cream. Cannes still has a monopoly on international auteurist masters, Toronto is the leading showcase for Oscar bait, and Sundance for hot indie talent.
But Tribeca does an excellent job of cherry-picking from the leftovers, especially in the commercially marginal documentary field, which is saturated with worthy films desperately seeking distribution. A festival regular is Alex Gibney, whose ''Taxi to the Dark Side'' won an Academy Award in 2008. His entry this year, ''Catching Hell'' (not in competition), explores sports fanaticism and scapegoating, focusing on the brouhaha over the notoriously deflected foul ball in a 2003 Major League Baseball playoff game between the Chicago Cubs and the Florida Marlins.
Portraits of rebels and outsiders dominate this year's competing films in both the documentary and narrative categories. Alma Har'el's surreal ''Bombay Beach'' examines a crumbling bohemian community on the edge of the Salton Sea, the lake created in the California desert by the flooded Colorado River. Once a celebrity destination, it has deteriorated into a shanty town peopled by the impoverished and the eccentric. The stories of a wizened former oil-field worker, a poor black teenager who fled Los Angeles after the murder of his cousin, and a young boy with bipolar disorder who is pumped full of medications are woven into a mosaic that evokes the three ages of man in a postapocalyptic America. Compounding the film's eeriness are dreamlike dance numbers performed by the residents.
Lee Hirsch's ''Bully Project'' is an important, painful examination of children and teenagers ostracized by their schoolmates for being different. The verbal and physical harassment makes their daily lives hell and drives some to suicide. The film pays particular attention to school officials who are unable or unwilling to stop the persecution, despite the pleas of desperate parents. See it and wince.
Dick Kuchera, the subject of Joshua Neale's ''Despicable Dick and Righteous Richard,'' is an alcoholic wild man in his late 60s who has finally sobered up after wreaking widespread emotional damage. As he works Steps 8 and 9 of a 12-step program, he methodically visits the people he has mistreated to try to make amends. For all his sincerity, there is an element of showboating in these reunions, and you wonder if after 50 years of boorish behavior, his apologies are too little, too late. The film is a bracing antidote to the formulaic reality shows about recovery proliferating on cable television.
The entries I've sampled in the narrative feature competition don't lack for audacity. Paula van der Oest's ''Black Butterflies'' is a fictionalized biography of Ingrid Jonker, the tempestuous poet who is regarded as South Africa's Sylvia Plath and who drowned herself in 1965, at 31. Carice van Houten (''Black Book'') gives a disturbing portrayal of the emotionally unstable Jonker, a high-strung rebel rejected by her father (Rutger Hauer), a straitlaced Parliament minister.
Dennis Lee's comedy ''Jesus Henry Christ'' revolves around a test-tube baby grown into a 10-year-old child with a photographic memory, whose fervently left-wing mother (Toni Collette) works in a university cafeteria. The boy, who embarks on a search for his biological father, is given to issuing subversive intellectual manifestos. The tone of this very smart movie is maniacally zany.
''Turn Me On, Goddammit,'' a Norwegian film written and directed by Jannicke Systad Jacobsen, is a fictional corollary to ''The Bully Project'' in its sympathetic portrait of a hormonally overstimulated 15-year-old girl who is ostracized by her peers. The movie weaves fantasy and reality to evoke the inner life of an adolescent in an uncontrollable state of heat that threatens her mean-girl peers.
From the beginning, Tribeca has always had a pronounced rock 'n' roll sensibility; this year it is stronger than ever. ''The Union'' is the first film in six years by Mr. Crowe, the director of ''Almost Famous.'' Although I haven't seen this documentary about the making of the Elton John-Leon Russell album ''The Union,'' with the producer T Bone Burnett, the fact that Mr. John's song ''Tiny Dancer'' was a spiritual grounding wire of ''Almost Famous'' gives me high hopes that it will be one of the stronger opening-night choices for a festival that has sometimes led off with a thud.
Among the 16 music-related films, of particular interest is Mike Fleiss and Mike Piscitelli's documentary ''God Bless Ozzy Osbourne.'' The movie unblinkingly chronicles the chaotic life and times of rock's most notorious cut-up, from his miserable working-class childhood through his years as a drunken clown to his latter-day sobriety.
Mr. Osbourne's mammoth drug and alcohol consumption apparently dwarfed even that of Keith Richards, at least as Mr. Richards remembers it in his autobiography, ''Life.'' Tommy Lee of Motley Crue, himself no slouch when it came to partying in the 1980s, describes in a tone of amazement Mr. Osbourne's grotesque behavior on a joint tour. And yes, Mr. Osbourne did bite off the head of a bat during a performance without realizing until afterward that it wasn't a toy.
Two documentary portraits of female musical legends stand out: the motor-mouthed Carol Channing, now 90, in Dori Berinstein's ''Carol Channing: Larger Than Life,'' and the South African singer Miriam Makeba in Mika Kaurismaki's ''Mama Africa.'' Ms. Channing, an unapologetic attention hog since she first set foot on a stage, is an endless storehouse of salty showbiz anecdotes and a fiercely intelligent observer of the human condition who seems to remember everything.
The international musical roster appearing in ''Mama Africa,'' a celebration of Ms. Makeba, who died three years ago at 76 and was exiled from her homeland for 30 years, runs from Hugh Masekela to Paul Simon. The film remembers her welcome in the United States under the wing of Harry Belafonte; that welcome turned sour with her marriage to the Black Panther Stokely Carmichael and drove her to move to Guinea and later to Belgium. The performance footage of Ms. Makeba and of Ms. Channing over many decades is stunning.
A festival adjunct is its ''Tribeca Talks: Directors Series,'' which this year includes interviews with Robert De Niro by Brian Williams; the director Doug Liman by Alec Baldwin; and the Malian filmmaker Souleymane Cisse by Martin Scorsese.
On a more playful note are the festival's usual bells and whistles: an outdoor drive-in; a family street fair (April 30) and Tribeca/ESPN Sports Day (also April 30).
''We are very much a movie festival,'' Ms. Rosenthal said, emphasizing the term movie, as opposed to film. ''We very much cater to our audiences.''
The Tribeca Film Festival runs from Wednesday through May 1 at various Manhattan theaters; tribecafilm.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from above: Benny Parrish in ''Bombay Beach''
a scene from ''Carol Channing: Larger Than Life''
Ozzy Osbourne in ''God Bless Ozzy Osbourne''
Miriam Makeba in ''Mama Africa''
and a scene from ''Jesus Henry Christ.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALMA HAR'EL
PETER JAMES ZIELINSKI, BROADWAY CARES/EQUITY FIGHTS AIDS
TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL
JURGEN SCHADEBERG
RAFY) (C1)
Liam Cunningham and Carice van Houten in ''Black Butterflies,'' a film about Ingrid Jonker, who is known as South Africa's Sylvia Plath. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IDTV FILMS)
 A scene from Lee Hirsch's ''Bully Project,'' a documentary about children and teenagers ostracized by their schoolmates for being different. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL) (C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



344 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Short-Term Debt Is Creeping Back

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE and LISA LEE

 BODY:
Borrowing short and lending long is the essence of banking. But the business model has some serious flaws when big banks dive too deeply into short-term debt, as they did before the 2008 financial crisis. Bad habits have not yet returned, but recent data indicates some banks may be flirting with temptation.
Banks, in the United States and Britain in particular, have made serious headway in reducing their reliance on debt markets in the last two years. They have also worked to stretch out the time they have to pay back creditors. Moody's calls the progress significant, with debt profiles heading back toward a more normal six to seven years rather than the alarming 4.7 years on average globally in 2009. 
Banks will still need to roll over or pay back $3.6 trillion over the next two years, however, according to the I.M.F. As long as credit markets remain on cruise control this shouldn't be a problem. Even if turbulence strikes, United States banks, for example, count on a fat cushion of deposits to soften the blow.
But quiescent capital markets may be emboldening a creep back into shorter-term debt. In the first three months of this year, a third of the $51 billion borrowed by America's biggest, and systemically important, banks in the corporate debt market matured in three years or less, according to Thomson Reuters, up from 15 percent a year ago. Commercial paper borrowing is also on the rise, up 11 percent in 2011.
Some of the change could be the result of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's efforts to curb borrowing in the repo market, where financing can be as short as one day. Maturing bonds issued during the crisis, and guaranteed by the F.D.I.C., could also be causing a spike as banks refinance them with bonds of maturities below three years.
Still, borrowing patterns bear watching to make sure a creep doesn't become a slide. The allure is powerful. Borrowing $1 billion for one year would cost a bank like JPMorgan Chase just $6 million over 12 months where a 10-year bond would cost around $47 million. As long as short-term interest rates are rock bottom and credit markets stay friendly, the incentive to keep maturities shorter will be a little too tempting.
Lexicon of Del Monte
Del Monte is entering Wall Street's vernacular. A judge's condemnation of Barclays for how it handled the food company's buyout is resonating widely with boards, chief executives and bankers. Reflecting concern about the kind of conflicts of interest highlighted in the Del Monte saga, an investor recently warned 99 Cents Only Stores to watch its step when hiring advisers.
The judge in the Del Monte case didn't set any grand new precedent and Barclays wasn't even a defendant, but the strongly worded ruling served as a sharp reminder that conflicts matter -- potentially legally as well as ethically. It said that Barclays, which was involved on both sides in the Kohlberg Kravis Roberts purchase of the food group, ''secretly and selfishly manipulated the sale process'' for its own benefit.
As a result, boards are rightly asking more questions before hiring advisers and leaning more toward independent firms. The Del Monte judge rebuked not just the bankers but also the company's board for approving its adviser's request to help finance the buyout.
That's the kind of thing FBR Fund Advisors is getting at with its letter to 99 Cents Only, made public this week. It wanted the company's special board committee to ensure it hired advisers with no previous relationship to the Schiffer/Gold family or to the private equity firm Leonard Green & Partners, which want to buy the company. The mutual fund also said any advisers should agree up front not to participate in any bid. The company ultimately hired Lazard.
Earlier deals have raised judicial eyebrows about conflicts of interest. A judge ruling in 2005 on K.K.R.'s buyout of Toys ''R'' Us criticized Credit Suisse for a milder version of the conflicts Barclays encountered.
The Del Monte example has upped the ante. There may be times when it makes sense for a seller's adviser to provide financing -- but it had better make sense. Boutique advisory firms and others that don't wield big balance sheets are gaining mightily from this latest addition to M.& A. lore.
AGNES T. CRANE and LISA LEE
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A judge condemned Barclays for how it handled the Del Monte buyout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (79%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (69%); BOND ISSUES (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%); 99 CENTS ONLY STORES (60%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (60%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



345 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: With Cash Tight, School Districts Step Up Their Complaints Over State Mandates

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y. -- A roomy yellow bus waited outside the high school in this affluent Long Island suburb, its door open to students headed home at the end of classes. Ten minutes later, it rolled away with 12 riders scattered among the 66 seats.
''That's about average,'' said the driver, Akinola Famuyiwa. ''The most I have is 25.''
To accommodate every student from Paul D. Schreiber High School who is eligible for busing service, Port Washington sends out 17 buses with 1,122 seats, even though more than half of the seats routinely go empty at the end of the day because students stay late for sports and clubs, or find their own way home. Nevertheless, the school district says it is required to provide a seat for every eligible child every day to comply with longstanding state laws that govern school transportation.
''It's ludicrous to be doing this, and you can't get anyone to listen,'' said Geoffrey N. Gordon, the Port Washington superintendent, who estimated that the practice of running more buses than needed costs the district $2 million a year. 
Facing the threat of layoffs and program cuts, financially ailing districts across New York State are re-examining expenditures and increasingly challenging those mandated by state laws and regulations they find burdensome, costly or unnecessary.
By their count, these officials say, they are forced to abide by more than 250 unfunded state mandates a year, many of which can no longer be sustained.
School officials have been complaining about these imposed costs for years, but their protests are now resonating with parents and voters seeking ways to cut school spending. In response, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo convened a statewide mandate-relief committee, and the Board of Regents has identified laws it considers outdated.
But the clamor for mandate relief has been heightened by the March 31 adoption of a $132.5 billion state budget, one of the leanest in years. The budget reduces education aid by nearly $1.3 billion.
As a result, superintendents and school board members who once focused on big-ticket expenses like pensions and health care are now analyzing smaller mandates, like a 2007 law requiring districts to give employees paid leave for breast cancer and prostate screenings. The mandate cost one district, Croton-Harmon in Westchester County, $3,500 for substitutes for 20 teachers and staff members, and the cost is expected to rise as more staff members learn about the law, district officials say.
''People keep pushing the big issues, but it's the little mandates that add up to a lot of money,'' said Karen Zevin, the Croton-Harmon school board president.
To make this point, Croton-Harmon and six other districts in Westchester and Putnam Counties -- Brewster, Carmel, Garrison, Haldane, Hendrick Hudson and Lakeland -- have compiled a spreadsheet showing that to comply with state and federal mandates, they spend a combined $94.5 million annually, or an average of 21 percent of their budgets. That amount does not include pension and health care increases passed along by the state. With personnel costs typically making up two-thirds or more of school budgets, those mandates are far costlier.
Not all mandates cost money, but they can rankle nonetheless. One law requires districts to calculate each student's body-mass index, creating yet more paperwork. Other mandates require them to observe Conservation Day and teach about the Irish potato famine, which, they say, are unnecessary because these topics are already covered in earth science and social studies classes.
But efforts to eliminate any particular rule or regulation can draw protests. ''A lot of these mandates, they have constituencies behind them,'' said Randall W. Squier, superintendent of the Oxford Academy and Central School District, north of Binghamton. ''Once it becomes a mandate, it never comes off the list.''
The sensitivity of the issue was evident when Mr. Cuomo's mandate-relief committee released a report on March 1 that addressed specific education mandates only in a footnote saying the Board of Regents was reviewing 53 mandate relief options, as was the governor's team. Since then, the Regents have endorsed 21, the most important of which would eliminate the century-old Wicks Law, requiring districts to hire a minimum of four prime contractors for each construction project.
Other relief options being considered would have little impact. One would repeal a law requiring a report on students with disabilities who are children of Vietnam War veterans -- moot, as there are almost none of school age.
Jane Briggs, a spokeswoman for the State Education Department, noted that ''the vast majority of education mandates are required by state or federal law'' and can be undone only through legislative action. Ms. Briggs said that the department did not have the resources to enforce every mandate, but that districts that failed to comply could risk losing state aid, and that their administrators could lose their education licenses.
A number of mandates have been imposed in recent years by the State Legislature in response to problems or larger social concerns. For instance, legislators tightened state oversight of school finances after administrators in Roslyn embezzled money. After the death of a Long Island lacrosse player, a 2002 law required every public school to have a working defibrillator.
''These are not petty, bureaucratic excesses, these are fundamental social and educational policy determinations,'' said Richard L. Brodsky, a former Westchester assemblyman who sponsored the law giving school workers paid leave for cancer screenings. ''We understood there would be economic consequences.''
Mr. Brodsky acknowledged, though, ''in a time of scarcity, everything has to be re-examined.''
Parental concern over school bus injuries helped propel a 2000 law prohibiting standing on buses. Peter Mannella, executive director of the New York Association for Pupil Transportation, which represents district supervisors and private bus companies, said that keeping open seats ensured that every student had a safe ride. Trying to cut back the number of seats, he said, also raises a logistical issue, because ''how do you know when they're not taking the bus?''
Dr. Gordon, the Port Washington superintendent, said he had asked the state to change the law, enabling parents to waive their right to a reserved seat for their child, which is not an option now. Some superintendents have also questioned a law that requires districts to provide busing and other aid to local children attending private schools, as a benefit to those taxpayers. Scarsdale spends $1.5 million a year on bus service for students attending private schools within 15 miles of the district, including Horace Mann in the Bronx.
''In good times, this is a service we have been happy to provide to our community,'' said Michael V. McGill, the Scarsdale superintendent. ''The problem is, as times get tougher, and we're having to cut services to our students and looking at larger class sizes, it now begins to harm 4,700 students who are here for a quality public education.''
Mr. Mannella acknowledged the expense of busing private school students. He suggested limiting busing to private schools within 10 miles of a district, instead of the current 15-mile mandate, a move he said could save districts nearly $70 million a year.
Richard E. Organisciak, superintendent of the New Rochelle schools in Westchester, said some mandates were bureaucratic headaches -- like a required yearly report on ''violent and disruptive incidents,'' which he said cost $25,000 annually in administrative time to investigate and document every dispute in a district with 10 schools. In return, he said, the district has received ''very little feedback that has been of value to us.''
School officials also say that too many mandates take a one-size-fits-all approach -- for instance, the one requiring three outside auditors that was imposed on every district after the Roslyn scandal.
That costs the 3,100-student Jericho district on Long Island $124,000 a year on audits, five times as much as when it went with just one auditor, the superintendent, Henry Grishman, said.
''I'm not saying that someone shouldn't be looking closely at our books,'' he said. ''But for that expenditure, how many more Roslyns have they found?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Port Washington, N.Y., more than half of the high school bus seats routinely go unused at the end of the day. But seats must still be available for every student eligible for busing.
 Geoffrey N. Gordon, the Port Washington superintendent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Unfunded Requirements: New York's school districts face more than 250 unfunded state mandates governing many aspects of daily school life, like curriculum and bus service. Most are established through legislation and approved by the governor. The New York Times examined four examples of unfunded state mandates and their financial impact on the Croton-Harmon School District in Westchester County, which had a $43.9 million budget this year. (Source: New York State Archives, Croton-Harmon School District) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (88%); BUDGETS (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); MEN'S HEALTH (60%); BREAST CANCER (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



346 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Zipcar, Though Yet to Turn a Profit, Soars in Market Debut

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
8:49 p.m. Updated
For a few hours on Thursday, Times Square resembled an auto showroom.
The Nasdaq building loomed over brightly colored Mini Coopers, branded with green Zipcar logos. Scott Griffith, Zipcar's chief executive, posed for photographs in a yellow car as the company celebrated a long-awaited initial public offering.
''I think we're a company whose time has come,'' Mr. Griffith said. ''Certainly the window is open, and we went right through it.'' 
In an positive sign for the I.P.O. market, shares of Zipcar opened with a jump of 67 percent before settling to record a 56 percent gain on their first day of trading.
It was quite a standing ovation for a decade-old company that has yet to turn a profit.
Zipcar was not the only new stock to be warmly welcomed by investors on Thursday. Shares of Arcos Dorados, an Argentine-based chain of McDonald's restaurants, surged 24.7 percent, to close at $21.20. The company, whose name is ''golden arches'' in Spanish, is the world's largest McDonald's franchisee, with 1,755 restaurants in 19 countries and territories in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Such big one-day pops are more evidence that the I.P.O. market, which was moribund during the financial crisis, is reviving.
So far this year, 40 initial public offerings have come to market in the United States, with proceeds exceeding $16 billion - more than double the amount in the same period for 2010, according to Renaissance Capital, an investment advisory firm. There are 154 companies in the I.P.O. pipeline, hoping to raise $35 billion.
Still, analysts caution, investors are not sinking money into I.P.O.'s indiscriminately.
Two other companies priced their offerings Wednesday night and went public on Thursday: the shipping company Box Ships and the steel services provider TMS International. Even though both priced their shares below their expected range. Box Ships ended the day down 8.3 percent, and TMS closed down 7.7 percent.
''Investors are not looking at these I.P.O.'s with starry eyes,'' said Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance. ''Investors are being very selective; Zipcar is trading well because it is establishing a new market and they are profitable in a number of their early markets.''
Zipcar, while it is in the car rental business, may be a preview of how other technology I.P.O.'s will fare this year, some analysts say. The company is a consumer-oriented service with an extensive technology platform that incorporates smartphones with its mobile application.
Technology public offerings have performed reasonably well this year. The content provider Demand Media rose 33 percent on its first trading day, although shares have pulled back since peaking in March. And several highly anticipated offerings, like LinkedIn and Skype, are still in the pipeline.
''I would expect that there will be a lot of companies that look at this successful offering and make plans for follow-on offerings,'' said Robert C. Kagle, a Zipcar board member and partner at venture capital firm Benchmark Capital, one of Zipcar's first major investors.
In addition to Benchmark, Zipcar's main investors are Revolution, led by the AOL founder, Stephen M. Case; Greylock Partners; and Smedvig Capital. Together, they own 36.7 percent of Zipcar. Revolution, which sold a portfolio company to Zipcar in 2007 for stock, remains its largest shareholder, with a 17.7 percent stake.
Zipcar is a capital-intensive business, with more than 8,000 vehicles across the United States. The service, which is most active in cities like Manhattan, Boston and San Francisco, requires users to sign up for an annual membership. Once enrolled, drivers can reserve cars, often located in public parking lots, and pay by the hour or day, with insurance and gas included.
The company, founded in 2000 and based in Cambridge, Mass., has blossomed into a popular service, operating in 14 major metropolitan areas with 560,000 members.
But Zipcar is not yet profitable.
According to a recent filing, Zipcar posted a net loss of $14.1 million in 2010 and a loss of $4.7 million for 2009. The company, which has accumulated losses of $65.4 million, said it did not expect to be profitable this year.
Still, revenue is growing. Sales rose 41.9 percent, to $186.1 million, last year. In its filing, the company said it planned to use the proceeds from the I.P.O. to pay down debt and for general business expenses.
Part of the reason Zipcar is saddled with losses is its aggressive campaign to build its network and thwart rivals, like Hertz, which started its own car-sharing program, Connect, in 2008. Zipcar is now in Canada and Britain, where it recently purchased Streetcar, a London-based competitor, and it is planning to open in two to three major markets a year, according to Mr. Griffith. Each new market requires significant overhead and then it requires about three years to reach breakeven. Still, Mr. Griffith said he was comfortable with the company's trajectory.
''We're taking a lot of actions to march towards profitability,'' he said. ''We're integrating the acquisition, we're going to reduce our debt quite a bit, so that will help move us in that direction, and we're getting more leverage as our network grows.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: April 14, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this post included incorrect earnings for Zipcar. The company reported a loss of $14.7 million in 2010 and a loss of $4.7 million for 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zipcar's chief executive, Scott Griffith, in Times Square. ''I think we're a company whose time has come,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUTTLE/ZIPCAR, VIA PR NEWSWIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); FRANCHISING (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FAST FOOD (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (70%); FRANCHISEES (67%); SMARTPHONES (60%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: ZIPCAR INC (90%); MCDONALD'S CORP (84%); ARCOS DORADOS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: ZIP (NASDAQ) (90%); MCD (NYSE) (84%); ARCO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (90%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



347 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN REVIEW; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: ROCHELLE FEINSTEIN: 'The Estate of Rochelle F.'

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
On Stellar Rays
133 Orchard Street, Lower East Side
Through May 1
Rochelle Feinstein, who has been painting at the intersection of feminist insouciance and Rauschenbergian exuberance for the last two decades, here toys with the idea of ending the struggle. But the invigorating effect of her exhibition argues for the opposite of retirement. 
In a handwritten cri de coeur introducing a series of collage-drawings representing plans for the paintings in this show, Ms. Feinstein meditates on the dismal economy's effects on herself and other Americans. She decides to consolidate her remaining resources into one last testament.
Made of paint, canvas, newspapers, plastic foam, photographs, torn fabric and a sad, heart-shape balloon spray-painted in rainbow stripes, Ms. Feinstein's works play a mordantly knowing, passive-aggressive, art-about-art game. A five-foot-square canvas announces the exhibition title, ''The Estate of Rochelle F.,'' in buoyant, frayed, glue-on letters cut from black fabric. ''Mr. Natural'' is a sly satire on creative virility. It has a bold, brushy X composition of thick, coagulated green paint punctuated by a splotch of white, crystalline material that can be read as alchemical salt or the ejaculate of the heroic male Expressionist. The lovely ''Image of an Image'' offers a feminine alternative: sheer curtains covered with a patchwork of gold and aluminum leaf hang from a steel rod over a similarly decorated canvas. Painting subsides into bourgeois, domestic complacency.
What true creative striver does not at some point feel the pain of futility in this capriciously rewarding world? Ms. Feinstein's wry, melancholic art suggests that despair may be a fecund mother of invention.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



348 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Resentment Is Rising In Euro Zone

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The real Golden Rule, it has been said, goes like this: He who has the gold, rules.
They are trying that in Europe these days. Germany has the gold and it sees no reason other countries should not do as the Germans say.
The prescription for the so-called peripheral countries of the euro zone is simple: Enact the reforms Germany thinks are needed. Cut spending. Take wage and benefit cuts. Reform your tax system to produce more revenue, which may mean raising tax rates or just forcing people to comply with existing laws. Require people to work longer and retire later. Follow austerity as far as the eye can see.
Do all those things, and the rest of Europe will provide grudging assistance.
To some with the gold, this is simply a morality play. ''They had their fun,'' a former European central banker told me a few weeks ago, speaking of the peripheral countries. A different official used the same words last week. 
In each conversation, I was reminded that the creation of the euro led to interest rates declining sharply in peripheral countries and to economic booms. Those countries lost competitiveness in export markets because they tolerated inflation and did not hold the line on wages. Now, those who partied deserve the pain of hangovers.
It is probable that countries will follow the German prescription. From the perspective of a national government, the alternatives may seem worse.
But democracy can be messy. Will populations go along?
There are a couple of hints that they may not. One comes from Portugal, the other from Iceland, which is not in the euro zone but is in a mess.
In Portugal, the government is seeking a European bailout but seems not to have the authority to agree to one. The opposition has forced elections, which it is widely expected to win, but it won't say what it will do. In the meantime, the situation is in limbo, which may force Europe to help out before it can get any enforceable promises of reform.
In Iceland, the issue is whether the population should pay for the sins of its banks. The banks had big operations in Britain and the Netherlands, and when they collapsed, the British and Dutch governments made good on the deposits. The government of Iceland promised to pay the money back.
The amount is $5.8 billion, 46 percent of Iceland's gross domestic product in 2010. A similar bill sent to the United States would call for a payment of $6.8 trillion.
I'm not really clear on why Iceland should be responsible. No doubt its bank regulators performed abysmally. But where were the British and Dutch regulators when the banks were taking in deposits from their citizens?
For reasons good or bad, Iceland's citizens appear to be reluctant to pick up the bill. Nearly 60 percent of voters turned down the agreement backed by their government, which called for Iceland to pay the money over 30 years beginning in 2016. Britain and the Netherlands now plan to ask something called the European Free Trade Association Surveillance Authority to order Iceland to pay.
Both the Irish and Greek governments embraced the required austerity to get European help, and electorates threw out those deemed responsible for the mess. But there are signs that the new governments are losing support, and there is no indication of early economic recovery. Portugal's government fell precisely because the opposition would not sign off on the required austerity.
What would be happening without the euro?
Neither the boom nor the bust would have been as great in the peripheral countries. But when the bust did arrive, the currencies of those countries would have plunged in value. That would have made them poorer and unable to afford the imports they once bought. Prices, measured in local currencies, would have risen. In Ireland, where a property boom collapsed, that would have ameliorated the problems faced by homeowners who owe far more than their homes are worth. Exports would have gained competitiveness, stimulating some growth.
But of course there are no separate currencies. There is no provision for allowing a country to leave the euro zone. That idea was not even considered when it turned out that Greece had lied its way into the club. In retrospect, everyone might be better off if it had been kicked out.
It is hard to see how the euro zone can be undone, but it is even harder to see how it will prosper. The reforms being pushed on the peripheral countries seem to call for slow growth, at best, for a very long time. Unfortunately, bad economies do not produce extra tax receipts, which are needed for fiscal improvement. Perhaps starving those economies will eventually make them leaner and meaner. Perhaps it will kill them first.
When the euro was created, some hoped, and others feared, that the Continent would move closer to a unified government. Some euro backers said countries would more closely align their fiscal policies with those of Germany to avoid a crisis. They were right about the need, but wrong about the action. Instead, the boom enabled countries to put off reforms.
In a speech in New York this week, Andreas Dombret, a member of the executive board of the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, said national governments in the euro zone remained ''in charge of sound fiscal and economic policies,'' but there was now ''a strict framework that exerts pressure toward discipline in order to ensure that every country acts in a way that is consistent with the interest of having a stable common currency.''
In other words, elected governments can make decisions, so long as they are good ones.
Last week the European Central Bank raised interest rates, a move that made a lot more sense for the German economy than for most of the others in the euro zone.
Mr. Dombret praised that decision. ''It is essential that inflation expectations remain anchored,'' he explained, adding, ''It goes without saying that we did not complain about the headline of the Financial Times article on the rate hike. The article was entitled 'E.C.B. becomes Bundesbank.' ''
There is a risk over time that democracy will lead Europe to splinter. Germans are angry about having to pick up the bill for bailouts of other countries, which is one reason the German government felt called upon to insist on that ''strict framework.'' Others are resentful of the enforced austerity.
If European economies somehow grow enough, those resentments may not matter much. But if not, voter anger may intensify and demand that something change. Maybe the Germans will want to cut off their prodigal neighbors. Maybe the neighbors will decide they would be better off with a new currency and without overbearing demands for austerity that prevent recovery. In either case, populist politicians demanding the demise of the euro might win elections. The fact that European law does not allow for such a possibility would make the situation messier, but in the end voters would have their way.
It would be good if the debate in Europe focused less on justice -- Is it fair to ask Germans to bail out profligate Greeks? Is it fair for Europe to force wage cuts on citizens who were not responsible for the financial excesses of their countries' banks? -- and more on how to quickly get devastated economies growing again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officials in Reykjavik counted the votes last Saturday in a referendum in which Icelanders rejected their government's proposal to pay back a bank debt to Britain and the Netherlands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HALLDOR KOLBEINS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ELECTIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (79%) ICELAND (96%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



349 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2531 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.
- Ambrose Akinmusire Quintet (Friday through Sunday) With his new Blue Note debut, ''When the Heart Emerges Glistening,'' the thrillingly proficient trumpeter Ambrose Akinmusire delivers one of this year's standout jazz releases, along with a statement of principle. It's a showcase for his writing and musicianship, but perhaps even more clearly a testament to the ultramodern strength of his band, which includes Walter Smith III on tenor saxophone, Harish Raghavan on bass and Justin Brown on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30; $25 on Sunday. (Nate Chinen)20110414 
- The Bad Plus With Joshua Redman (Tuesday through Thursday) The Bad Plus, which recently earned praise for a reinterpretation of Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring,'' takes the concept of band unity to an extreme rarely encountered in jazz today. But Mr. Redman, a saxophonist of fleet proficiency and smooth erudition, should fall right into step here, striking a flexible rapport with the pianist Ethan Iverson, the bassist Reid Anderson and the drummer David King. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20110414
Bruce Barth-Steve Wilson Quartet (Friday and Saturday) Bruce Barth, a pianist, and Steve Wilson, a saxophonist, share a long affiliation, having played for years in each other's bands. Their joint leadership ensures that the music will hew to an ideal of bright economy; so does their sharp younger rhythm team, with the bassist Ben Street and the drummer Rodney Green. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street , (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; $30 cover, with variable minimum. (Chinen)20110414
Central Brooklyn Jazz Festival (Friday through Thursday) This homegrown, community-supported festival, now in its 12th season, continues with acts like the Melba Joyce Quartet, on Friday at 8 p.m. at Jazz966, 966 Fulton Street; and a tribute to Dr. Billy Taylor, featuring the trumpeter Jimmy Owens, on Saturday at 9 and 10:30 p.m. at Sistas' Place, 456 Nostrand Avenue. For a full schedule and more information, visit cbjcjazz.org. centralbrooklynjazzconsortium.org; $10 each. (Chinen)20110414
Community Immunity (Sunday) This triple bill takes its name from the new album by the saxophonist Curtis MacDonald, just out on the Greenleaf label. Mr. MacDonald spearheads the festivities at 9 p.m. with his sleekly modern band. Preceding him, at 7, is an exploratory trio led by the pianist Kris Davis. Closing shop, at 10, is Chris Speed's Yeah No, an electro-acoustic outfit led by Mr. Speed, a saxophonist and clarinetist, and featuring the drummer Jim Black, the bassist Skuli Sverrisson and the trumpeter Shane Endsley. Littlefield, 622 Degraw Street, between Third and Fourth Avenues, Gowanus, Brooklyn , littlefieldnyc.com; $10. (Chinen)20110414
Creative Music for Three Bass Saxophones With Scott Robinson (Friday) A bass saxophone, commonplace in early jazz, has become a rare sighting in the wild, usually turning up only when a niche enthusiast makes an unlikely decision. In this case, that person is Mr. Robinson, an incorrigible eccentric, who will lead a group with two peers, J. D. Parran and Vinny Golia, and the drummer Warren Smith. At 8 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea , (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)20110414
Duke's 112th Birthday Celebration (Wednesday) In a pre-emptive celebration of Duke Ellington's birthday -- he was born on April 29 -- the charismatic young pianist Jonathan Batiste leads an over-the-shoulder glance at some of the maestro's compositions. At 8 p.m., Leonard Nimoy Thalia Theater, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street , (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $35; students $30. (Chinen)20110414
Peter Evans Quartet (Friday and Saturday) The trumpeter Peter Evans has a mind-boggling new album, ''Ghosts'' (More Is More), that pursues complex derivations of standard form. He works here with the same slashing band featured on the album, with the pianist Carlos Homs, the bassist Tom Blancarte and the drummer Jim Black. At 8:30 and 10 p.m., I-Beam Music, 168 Seventh Street, Gowanus, Brooklyn , ibeambrooklyn.com; $10 suggested donation. (Chinen)20110414
Evolving Voice / Evolving Music (Monday) For this installment of the weekly avant-garde series, the trumpeter Roy Campbell presents three ensembles that reflect his ideal of an African-inflected world music. At 7 p.m. the multireedist and trumpeter Daniel Carter and the guitarists James Keepnews and Rebecca Schmoyer perform as Chemistry Set; at 8:30 p.m. Mr. Campbell leads his Pyramid Trio, with William Parker on bass and Zen Matsuura on drums. Closing out at 10 are the Downtown Horns: Mr. Campbell, Mr. Carter and the multireedist Sabir Mateen. Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, visionfestival.org; $10 per set, $15 for two sets, $20 all night; $3 student discount. (ChinenClemente Soto Velez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side presents three ensembles that reflect his ideal of an African-inflected world music. At 7 p.m. the multireedist and trumpeter Daniel Carter and the guitarists James Keepnews and Rebecca Schmoyer perform as Chemistry Set; at 8:30 p.m. Mr. Campbell leads his Pyramid Trio, with William Parker on bass and Zen Matsuura on drums. Closing out at 10 are the Downtown Horns: Mr. Campbell, Mr. Carter and the multireedist Sabir Mateen. Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, visionfestival.org; $10 per set, $15 for two sets, $20 all night; $3 student discount. (Chinen)20110414
Joe Fiedler Trio (Tuesday and Thursday) The fine avant-garde trombonist Joe Fiedler has a new album, ''Sacred Chrome Orb'' (Yellow Sound), that showcases the rugged rapport of this working trio, with the bassist John Hebert and the drummer Michael Sarin. Tuesday at 8 p.m., University of the Streets, 130 East Seventh Street, second floor, East Village, (212) 254-9300, universityofthestreets.org; $10. Thursday at 8 p.m., Local 269, 269 East Houston Street, at Suffolk Street, Lower East Side , (212) 228-9874, thelocal269.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)20110414
Bill Frisell's Beautiful Dreamers (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Frisell, a guitarist inexorably drawn to the rustic byways of American music, recently released an album called ''Beautiful Dreamers'' (Savoy), featuring a springy trio with the violist Eyvind Kang and the drummer Rudy Royston. The same cohort appears here to play much of the same music. (Through April 24.) At 9 an 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20110414
Tomas Fujiwara and the Hook Up (Thursday) Mr. Fujiwara, a drummer of acute reflexes and subtle control, recently released ''Actionspeak'' (482), a strong debut. Here he regroups most of the same partners -- like the guitarist Mary Halvorson, the trumpeter Jonathan Finlayson and the tenor saxophonist Brian Settles -- but introduces music that will turn up on his next release. At 10 p.m., Littlefield, 622 Degraw Street, between Third and Fourth Avenues, Gowanus, Brooklyn , littlefieldnyc.com; $10. (Chinen)20110414
Gerry Hemingway Quintet (Saturday) Gerry Hemingway, a dynamic and inventive drummer, leads a group with two distinctive reed players, the saxophonist Ellery Eskelin and the clarinetist Oscar Noriega, as well as the rhythm team of Terrence McManus on guitar and Kermit Driscoll on bass. Together they have an album due out this summer, with music they'll preview here. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $15 cover, with a $10 minimum. (ChinenCornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village drummer, leads a group with two distinctive reed players, the saxophonist Ellery Eskelin and the clarinetist Oscar Noriega, as well as the rhythm team of Terrence McManus on guitar and Kermit Driscoll on bass. Together they have an album due out this summer, with music they'll preview here. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $15 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20110414
- The Music of Joe Henderson (Tuesday through Thursday) Joe Henderson, one of the great distinctive postbop tenor saxophonists, died 10 years ago this June, having enjoyed the fruits of a late-career renaissance. This tribute features several fine musicians who worked with him -- the drummer Al Foster, the bassist George Mraz and a special guest, the pianist Fred Hersch -- along with a smart young inheritor, the saxophonist Eli Degibri. (Through April 23.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 and $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20110414
- Impulse! Nights (Wednesday and Thursday) This four-night series, designed to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Impulse! label, pays tribute to a different classic album each night, beginning on Wednesday with John Coltrane's ''Africa/Brass,'' as interpreted by the saxophonists David Liebman and Ravi Coltrane, both inheritors, so to speak, of the Coltrane legacy. On Thursday the trumpeter Roy Hargrove pays tribute to Oliver Nelson's ''Blues and the Abstract Truth.'' (Through April 24.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $35. (Chinen)20110414
Mat Maneri Quintet (Wednesday) Mat Maneri, a violist with an elastic approach to pulse and pitch, hasn't made much of a stir with this band in recent years, focusing his energies elsewhere. The group's return here is welcome, as are the intuitive contributions of its members: the bass clarinetist Oscar Noriega, the pianist Craig Taborn, the bassist Garth Stevenson and the drummer Randy Peterson. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a $7 minimum. (ChinenCornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village proach to pulse and pitch, hasn't made much of a stir with this band in recent years, focusing his energies elsewhere. The group's return here is welcome, as are the intuitive contributions of its members: the bass clarinetist Oscar Noriega, the pianist Craig Taborn, the bassist Garth Stevenson and the drummer Randy Peterson. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a $7 minimum. (Chinen)20110414
- The Music of the Modern Jazz Quartet (Friday and Saturday) Upheld for many years as the standard-bearers of supreme elegance in small-group jazz, the Modern Jazz Quartet has lost some luster in the popular imagination. This tribute, spearheaded by the punctilious drummer Lewis Nash, should help matters a bit; it will also feature the ever-articulate pianist Kenny Barron (standing in for John Lewis) and the soulfully sensitive vibraphonist Steve Nelson (attempting to fill the shoes of Milt Jackson). Jim Hall, a master of postwar jazz guitar, will be in the spotlight as a guest. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $65 for the 7:30 p.m. sets and $55 for the 9:30 p.m. sets. (Chinen)20110414
John Pizzarelli (Friday) With his most recent album, ''Rockin' in Rhythm: A Tribute to Duke Ellington'' (Telarc), Mr. Pizzarelli, the guitarist and vocalist, furthers his stature as a breezy exemplar of jazz-rooted cabaret. His longtime band includes his brother, Martin Pizzarelli, on bass; Larry Fuller on piano; and Tony Tedesco on drums. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $40 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20110414
Seabrook Power Plant (Tuesday) The music of Seabrook Power Plant descends both from the extreme wing of avant-garde jazz and the twitchier strains of hard-core punk. The band -- two brothers, the banjoist-guitarist Brandon Seabrook and the drummer Jared Seabrook, along with a bassist, Tom Blancarte, and a guest vocalist, Judith Berkson -- is ushering in a spastic new album, its second self-titled release on Loyal Label. At 7:30 p.m., Littlefield, 622 Degraw Street, between Third and Fourth Avenues, Gowanus, Brooklyn , littlefieldnyc.com; $8. (Chinen)20110414
Sing Into Spring Festival (Friday through Thursday) This annual celebration of singers -- a less-than-firm restriction, programming-wise -- continues with the Phil Woods Quintet through this weekend and picks up on Monday with the Manhattan School of Music Afro-Cuban Jazz Orchestra, featuring the conga master Candido Camero as a guest. On Tuesday the bassist Ben Wolfe leads a quintet; from Wednesday through next weekend, the saxophonist George Coleman and the organist Joey DeFrancesco lead a group featuring the young vibraphonist Warren Wolf. (The festival runs through May 9.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $20, 30 and $35 covers ($10 and $5 for students), with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20110414
- Martial Solal and Francois Moutin (Friday through Sunday) Mr. Solal, a French-Algerian piano virtuoso now in his 80s, is known for a mode of extemporizing at the keyboard that suggests both deep erudition and constant revelation. He has headlined at the Village Vanguard as a solo pianist and in a trio with Mr. Moutin on bass; here he splits the difference between those formats, appearing without drums. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20110414
Tyshawn Sorey's Oblique (Saturday) A drummer capable of both whispery subtlety and volcanic intensity, Mr. Sorey has lately been focusing on composition, with scintillating results. His ensemble Oblique, which fleshes out a starkly chamberlike sound, includes Loren Stillman on saxophones, Todd Neufeld on guitar, John Escreet on piano and Chris Tordini on bass. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20 or $10 for members. (Chinen)20110414
Dan Weiss (Friday) Mr. Weiss is a drummer of adaptable flow and microscopic focus, as he has shown in a range of instrumental settings. His new album, which ingeniously adapts aspects of classical Indian percussion, is ''Jhaptal Drumset Solo.'' He draws from it here with a regular partner, the guitarist Miles Okazaki. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20 or $10 for members. (Chinen)20110414

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (79%); RECORD RELEASES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011



350 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Pressed Homeowners Facing Another Financial Threat

BYLINE: By NGOC NGUYEN; Suzanne Manneh contributed reporting.. 
nnguyen@newamericamedia.org; smanneh@newamericamedia.org

 BODY:
Estrella Bryant was at risk of losing her San Francisco town house last year.
Ms. Bryant, 70, had not fallen behind on her mortgage payments. Instead, she owed $560 in dues to the Parkview Heights Homeowners Association. The association turned over the case to a collection agency and threatened to foreclose unless Ms. Bryant paid off her debt, which increased tenfold because of fees and interest.
''It's been a nightmare,'' said Ms. Bryant, a Filipina immigrant who lives on Social Security and occasional bookkeeping jobs. She said she repeatedly asked Parkview Heights representatives why she was dealing with a debt collector instead of the association.
''Aren't you supposed to help homeowners?'' she asked. 
With the help of a lawyer, Ms. Bryant worked out a payment plan and saved her home. But her ordeal reveals another dimension to the foreclosure crisis, in which homeowners associations nationwide have the same powers as banks and mortgage lenders, and they can exercise a little-known right to foreclose on homes. California law permits associations to initiate foreclosure proceedings when a debt exceeds $1,800, or if a lower amount of dues is owed for more than one year.
One out of every four California homeowners belongs to a homeowners association -- entities that sell property and provide services in residential subdivisions with support from member dues. There are more than 15,000 associations in Northern California, according to Levy, Erlanger & Company, a professional services firm that caters to them.
Last year, associations foreclosed on about 300 Bay Area homes -- twice as many as five years ago, according to an analysis by New America Media, a nonprofit news organization. The study used data from ForeclosureRadar.com, an independent Web site.
Association-initiated foreclosures are still a small fraction of the overall total in the Bay Area and elsewhere. But advocates for housing rights said the problem ran much deeper, as associations used the threat of foreclosure to intensify pressure on troubled homeowners. The associations often work with debt collectors who add fees and collection costs, causing the debt to skyrocket.
''People come up with money through a painful process; their home is being held hostage and the debt collector knows it,'' said Marjorie Murray, who directs the Center for California Homeowner Association Law, an Oakland advocacy group.
Last week, the California Senate Judiciary Committee passed a bill to curtail predatory practices by collection agencies that can lead to ballooning debt and foreclosure proceedings. It would close a loophole that enables collection agencies to apply payments to their own fees and collection costs before paying down the original debt to homeowners associations. Current law forbids this, but debt collectors exploit vagueness in it to get homeowners to waive their rights.
Senator Ellen M. Corbett, Democrat of San Leandro, who co-sponsored the bill with the Center for California Homeowner Association Law, said the legislation was designed to give struggling homeowners a chance to catch up on payments to homeowners associations.
''Unscrupulous debt collectors are increasing the amount owed based on penalties and fees, and foreclosing on people's homes,'' Ms. Corbett said in an interview. ''It's a terrible practice. The penalties are just way too harsh.''
But Bay Area homeowners associations say they are feeling the same squeeze as the homeowners. Ken Johnson, president of the Eden Shores Homeowners Association in Hayward, said most homeowner associations were run by volunteers, who have neither the time nor the expertise to chase down delinquent homeowners.
Mr. Johnson said roughly half of his development's 500 tract homes are in some stage of foreclosure, primarily because of mortgage defaults. Many of those homeowners are also delinquent on their assessments, he said. That means Eden Shores has less money to provide services, including maintenance of common areas like streets, swimming pools and parks.
Mr. Johnson said associations were not interested in taking over distressed properties. ''They don't want to be liable for it; they just want the funds,'' he said.
Andrew Fortin, a spokesman for the Community Associations Institute, an organization that supports homeowners associations nationwide, said the ability to collect dues was essential to ensure that associations were able to provide crucial services.
''You can understand why an association would want to be on top of collecting assessments, or everyone's property value becomes zero,'' Mr. Fortin said.
For homeowners, however, that process can be painful.
Ms. Bryant said she got into trouble when her bookkeeping assignments started to dwindle in the depressed economy. She began to pay her assessments every other month and fell two months behind. She said she had no idea her home was at risk until she received a notice from a collection agency.
By then, the agency, Association Lien Services, had applied an additional $1,000 in fees, documents show. To stave off foreclosure, Ms. Bryant said, she was desperate to work out a payment plan, but the agency's offer required her to sign an agreement to allow her payments to go toward collection costs before being applied to her delinquent dues, circumventing a state law requiring that payments go toward the original debt before being applied to fees.
Instead of signing the document, Ms. Bryant obtained a pro bono lawyer. She recently paid the full amount she owed the association and worked out a deal to pay a fifth of the nearly $2,500 in collection costs.
Jane Fay, president of the Parkview Heights Homeowners Association, said that she sympathized with Ms. Bryant but that she believed the board acted responsibly in trying to collect the overdue assessments.
She did not agree with all of her debt collector's practices, Ms. Fay said, but homeowners associations have few options besides pursuing the debt. Delinquents must shoulder part of the blame, she said.
''You're an adult,'' she said. ''You haven't paid, and you know you haven't paid. There are repercussions.''
Ms. Fay said she was named president of the association in the middle of Ms. Bryant's dispute and did not have enough information to know ''right or wrong.'' She said the association waived some late charges and interest.
''We don't want the association to be making money off of homeowners who are in dire financial straits,'' Ms. Fay said.
For collection agencies, however, the foreclosure process can be profitable.
David Swedelson is a partner in Swedelson & Gottlieb, a Southern California law firm that is an affiliate of Association Lien Services. Mr. Swedelson said homeowners associations contracted with collection agencies because the latter could cut through ''government red tape and requirements'' and resolve cases ''a lot faster.''
Mr. Swedelson's law firm boasts on its Web site that it can collect delinquent assessments, costs and fees in ''90 percent of cases,'' and said it believed that ''foreclosure is the fastest and most effective way to collect overdue assessments.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 15 on homeowners facing foreclosure because of delinquent payments to their homeowners associations incorrectly stated the position of David Swedelson at the law firm Swedelson & Gottlieb, as well as the firm's relationship with Association Lien Services. He is a partner, not the managing partner of the firm; and Swedelson & Gottlieb is an affiliate of Association Lien Services; it does not operate the collection agency.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Estrella Bryant's town house, second from right, in the Potrero Hill district of San Francisco was nearly foreclosed on. A foreclosed home for sale at Eden Shores, a development in Hayward where roughly half of the 500 tract homes are in some stage of foreclosure. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (89%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LAWYERS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



351 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Groups Helped Nurture Arab Opposition

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Even as the United States poured billions of dollars into foreign military programs and anti-terrorism campaigns, a small core of American government-financed organizations were promoting democracy in authoritarian Arab states.
The money spent on these programs was minute compared with efforts led by the Pentagon. But as American officials and others look back at the uprisings of the Arab Spring, they are seeing that the United States' democracy-building campaigns played a bigger role in fomenting protests than was previously known, with key leaders of the movements having been trained by the Americans in campaigning, organizing through new media tools and monitoring elections.
A number of the groups and individuals directly involved in the revolts and reforms sweeping the region, including the April 6 Youth Movement in Egypt, the Bahrain Center for Human Rights and grass-roots activists like Entsar Qadhi, a youth leader in Yemen, received training and financing from groups like the International Republican Institute, the National Democratic Institute and Freedom House, a nonprofit human rights organization based in Washington, according to interviews in recent weeks and American diplomatic cables obtained by WikiLeaks.
The work of these groups often provoked tensions between the United States and many Middle Eastern leaders, who frequently complained that their leadership was being undermined, according to the cables. 
The Republican and Democratic institutes are loosely affiliated with the Republican and Democratic Parties. They were created by Congress and are financed through the National Endowment for Democracy, which was set up in 1983 to channel grants for promoting democracy in developing nations. The National Endowment receives about $100 million annually from Congress. Freedom House also gets the bulk of its money from the American government, mainly from the State Department.
No one doubts that the Arab uprisings are home grown, rather than resulting from ''foreign influence,'' as alleged by some Middle Eastern leaders.
''We didn't fund them to start protests, but we did help support their development of skills and networking,'' said Stephen McInerney, executive director of the Project on Middle East Democracy, a Washington-based advocacy and research group. ''That training did play a role in what ultimately happened, but it was their revolution. We didn't start it.''
Some Egyptian youth leaders attended a 2008 technology meeting in New York, where they were taught to use social networking and mobile technologies to promote democracy. Among those sponsoring the meeting were Facebook, Google, MTV, Columbia Law School and the State Department.
''We learned how to organize and build coalitions,'' said Bashem Fathy, a founder of the youth movement that ultimately drove the Egyptian uprisings. Mr. Fathy, who attended training with Freedom House, said, ''This certainly helped during the revolution.''
Ms. Qadhi, the Yemeni youth activist, attended American training sessions in Yemen.
''It helped me very much because I used to think that change only takes place by force and by weapons,'' she said.
But now, she said, it is clear that results can be achieved with peaceful protests and other nonviolent means.
But some members of the activist groups complained in interviews that the United States was hypocritical for helping them at the same time that it was supporting the governments they sought to change.
''While we appreciated the training we received through the NGOs sponsored by the U.S. government, and it did help us in our struggles, we are also aware that the same government also trained the state security investigative service, which was responsible for the harassment and jailing of many of us,'' said Mr. Fathy, the Egyptian activist.
Interviews with officials of the nongovernmental groups and a review of diplomatic cables obtained by WikiLeaks show that the democracy programs were constant sources of tension between the United States and many Arab governments.
The cables, in particular, show how leaders in the Middle East and North Africa viewed these groups with deep suspicion, and tried to weaken them. Today the work of these groups is among the reasons that governments in turmoil claim that Western meddling was behind the uprisings, with some officials noting that leaders like Ms. Qadhi were trained and financed by the United States.
Diplomatic cables report how American officials frequently assured skeptical governments that the training was aimed at reform, not promoting revolutions.
Last year, for example, a few months before national elections in Bahrain, officials there barred a representative of the National Democratic Institute from entering the country.
In Bahrain, officials worried that the group's political training ''disproportionately benefited the opposition,'' according to a January 2010 cable.
In Yemen, where the United States has been spending millions on an anti-terrorism program, officials complained that American efforts to promote democracy amounted to ''interference in internal Yemeni affairs.''
But nowhere was the opposition to the American groups stronger than in Egypt.
Egypt, whose government receives $1.5 billion annually in military and economic aid from the United States, viewed efforts to promote political change with deep suspicion, even outrage.
Hosni Mubarak, then Egypt's president, was ''deeply skeptical of the U.S. role in democracy promotion,'' said a diplomatic cable from the United States Embassy in Cairo dated Oct. 9, 2007.
At one time the United States financed political reform groups by channeling money through the Egyptian government.
But in 2005, under a Bush administration initiative, local groups were given direct grants, much to the chagrin of Egyptian officials.
According to a September 2006 cable, Mahmoud Nayel, an official with the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, complained to American Embassy officials about the United States government's ''arrogant tactics in promoting reform in Egypt.''
The main targets of the Egyptian complaints were the Republican and Democratic institutes. Diplomatic cables show that Egyptian officials complained that the United States was providing support for ''illegal organizations.''
Gamal Mubarak, the former president's son, is described in an Oct. 20, 2008, cable as ''irritable about direct U.S. democracy and governance funding of Egyptian NGOs.''
The Egyptian government even appealed to groups like Freedom House to stop working with local political activists and human rights groups.
''They were constantly saying: 'Why are you working with those groups, they are nothing. All they have are slogans,' '' said Sherif Mansour, an Egyptian activist and a senior program officer for the Middle East and North Africa at Freedom House.
When their appeals to the United States government failed, the Egyptian authorities reacted by restricting the activities of the American nonprofit organizations.
Hotels that were to host training sessions were closed for renovations. Staff members of the groups were followed, and local activists were intimidated and jailed. State-owned newspapers accused activists of receiving money from American intelligence agencies.
Affiliating themselves with the American organizations may have tainted leaders within their own groups. According to one diplomatic cable, leaders of the April 6 Youth Movement in Egypt told the American Embassy in 2009 that some members of the group had accused Ahmed Maher, a leader of the January uprising, and other leaders of ''treason'' in a mock trial related to their association with Freedom House, which more militant members of the movement described as a ''Zionist organization.''
A prominent blogger, according to a cable, threatened to post the information about the movement leaders' links to Freedom House on his blog.
There is no evidence that this ever happened, and a later cable shows that the group ousted the members who were complaining about Mr. Maher and other leaders.
In the face of government opposition, some groups moved their training sessions to friendlier countries like Jordan or Morocco. They also sent activists to the United States for training.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Simon, who worked on targeting for the Barack Obama presidential campaign of 2008, spoke last week to members of the Egyptian Democratic Academy in Cairo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA BRUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) CHARTS: Supporting Democracy in the Middle East: In the past six years, the United States has devoted a small but significant amount of money to democracy-building campaigns in the Middle East. Of the much larger expenditures on military programs, Egypt got the largest share -- about $1.3 billion each year. (Source: Project on Middle East Democracy Report, Freedom House) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ENDOWMENTS (87%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%); ELECTION MONITORING (55%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (51%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM HOUSE (82%); INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (56%); NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (55%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); EGYPT (94%); YEMEN (93%); BAHRAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



352 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: A Widening Nuclear Divide

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Heather Timmons contributed reporting from New Delhi.

 BODY:
MADBAN, India -- When a farmer named Praveen Gawankar and two neighbors began a protest four years ago against a proposed nuclear power plant here in this coastal town, they were against it mainly for not-in-my-backyard reasons.
They stood to lose mango orchards, cashew trees and rice fields, as the government forcibly acquired 2,300 acres to build six nuclear reactors -- the biggest nuclear power plant ever proposed anywhere.
But now, as a nuclear disaster unfolds in distant Japan, the lonely group of farmers has seen support for their protest swell to include a growing number of Indian scientists, academics and former government officials. ''We are getting ready for bigger protests,'' Mr. Gawanker said.
While the government vows to push ahead -- citing India's energy needs -- Indian newspapers recently reported that the environment minister wrote Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to question the wisdom of large nuclear installations. And a group of 50 Indian scientists, academics and activists has called for a moratorium on new projects. ''The Japanese nuclear crisis is a wake-up call for India,'' they wrote in an open letter. 
Opponents note that the area was hit by 95 earthquakes from 1985 to 2005, although Indian officials counter that most were minor and that the plant's location on a high cliff would offer protection against tsunamis.
The heated debate shows how the politics of nuclear energy may be changing, not only in the United States and Europe but in developing countries whose economies desperately need cheap power to continue growing rapidly.
For Indian officials intent on promoting nuclear energy, the partial meltdowns and radiation leaks at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant in Japan could not have come at a worse time. Currently, India gets about 3 percent of its electricity from the 20 relatively small nuclear reactors in the country. But it is building five new reactors and has proposed 39 more, including the ones here in Madban, to help meet the voracious energy needs of India's fast-growing economy.
Only China, the other emerging-economy giant with a ravenous energy appetite, is planning a more rapid expansion of nuclear power. Beijing has indicated that it, too, plans to proceed cautiously with its nuclear rollout.
By 2050, the Indian government says a quarter of the nation's electricity should come from nuclear reactors. And the project here would be the biggest step yet toward that ambitious goal. The planned six reactors would produce a total of 9,900 megawatts of electricity -- more than three times the power now used by India's financial capital, Mumbai, about 260 miles up the coast.
So far, workers on the site are simply digging trenches, as a dozen police officers provide round-the-clock watch. Protesters, including Mr. Gawankar, have been arrested at various times, and state police officials have banned gatherings of more than five people in the villages near the site.
Prime Minister Singh has been so committed to atomic power that he staked his government's survival in 2008 on a controversial civil nuclear deal with the United States. That agreement, completed last year, opened the door for India to buy nuclear technology and uranium fuel from Western nations that previously would not sell to it because of India's refusal to sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
Most of India's reactors have been indigenously developed, but it is now building two reactors with Russian help. The proposed nuclear plant in Madban will use a new generation of reactors from the French company Areva. Projects using technology from the United States, and from Japan, are also planned.
Government officials have said that India will conduct more safety reviews to make sure its existing reactors and new proposals are safe. But they reiterated their commitment to nuclear projects, including the one in Madban, which has been named the Jaitapur Nuclear Power Plant, after a nearby village.
Many Indian scientists, though, remain distrustful of India's nuclear establishment. And they criticize the decision to use Areva's new reactors, saying they are unproved.
Compared with the 40-year-old Fukushima Daiichi boiling water reactors, Areva's are of a newer sort known as pressurized water reactors, which the company describes as a major advance. But Areva's first commercial installations of the technology, in France and Finland, have been delayed by several years after the initial designs failed to meet safety criteria. The company is also building two of the new reactors in China.
Adinarayan Gopalakrishnan, a former Indian nuclear safety official, is among critics who argue that India should not import the reactors, which are known by the initials EPR, because they do not have a proven track record.
''In view of the vast nuclear devastation we are observing in Japan, I would strongly urge the government not to proceed with the Jaitapur project with purchase of EPRs from France or any other import of nuclear reactors,'' said Mr. Gopalakrishnan. He once led India's Atomic Energy Regulatory Board and has also criticized the structure and independence of his former agency.
The regulatory board reports to the Atomic Energy Commission, which runs India's nuclear energy program and has long championed atomic power as an alternative to fossil fuels. The chairman of the regulatory board, S. S. Bajaj, was previously a senior executive at the state-owned Nuclear Power Corporation of India, which operates most of the country's reactors and will run the Jaitapur plant as well.
In an interview at his office in Mumbai, Mr. Bajaj said that despite being attached to the Atomic Energy Commission, his agency was ''functionally independent'' of the country's nuclear establishment and technically capable of reviewing the Areva reactors.
But farmers and fishermen fear for their livelihoods.
Farmers say that some customers in Western countries have already indicated that once the plant starts operating in 2018, the fear of radioactive contamination will keep them from buying the area's acclaimed Alphonso mangoes. The fruit this season is fetching 900 rupees (or $20) for a dozen in Mumbai markets.
Fishermen complain that even before the first reactors start operating, their ability to navigate the nearby waters will be restricted by security officials. And once the plant starts, locals say it will discharge millions of gallons of hot water into the sea. That, they say, will make the coast uninhabitable for mackerel and other fish, ruining an industry that provides jobs to more than 20,000 people and supplies seafood to Mumbai and Europe.
They say that about 160 miles north of the Jaitapur plant site, fishing has been severely curtailed by hot water from a controversial gas-fired power plant, built by Enron before it went bankrupt.
''Nobody will buy our fish when they know that this nuclear plant is nearby,'' Atiq Hathwardkar, 22, said on his family's fishing boat near the plant site. ''They want to move the country forward,'' he said of government officials, ''but they don't care what happens to the common man.''
Many local residents, as a form of protest, have refused to accept payment for the land the government forcibly acquired for the plant. The government is offering 1.5 million rupees ($33,000) per hectare (about 2.5 acres). But only 153 of the more than 2,000 landowners have taken the money.
Pramila Gawankar, the wife of the mango farmer leading the protests, said she had no use for the money the government was offering and was adamant that she would reclaim her orchards and fields.
''It's nice to look out on the fields,'' she said. ''We have the sea. We have fish. We want for nothing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a coastline cliff near the village of Madban and, above, a nursery and community center in the village. Opponents say the plant site is not a stable area. (B1)
A woman with freshly caught fish in Sakhari Nate, a village near the proposed Jaitapur nuclear complex. Villagers fear discharges of hot water will harm fishing.
A mango farmer at work in Madban, an area known for its mango varietals. Farmers are resisting government efforts to move them off their land.
Fishermen from Sakhari Nate village working along the coast. Their ability to sail the waters could be curtailed by security restrictions at a nuclear facility.
The effect of earthquakes, many of them low level, can be seen in the coastline area, where 95 quakes have been recorded in the region from 1985 to 2005.
 Atiq Hathwardkar, 22, center left, is a resident of Sakhari Nate who works in his family's fishing business. Many residents view their livelihoods as being at risk. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAINAZ AMARIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (89%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); TSUNAMIS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); POLITICS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); ARRESTS (60%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (58%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%) INDIA (98%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



353 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: A Boon for Nannies, If Only They Knew

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Patricia Francois prowled the American Museum of Natural History on a recent afternoon, looking for nannies. She spotted two, with their charges, sitting in the inky gloaming beneath the famous blue whale, and zeroed in.
Ms. Francois, an organizer for the advocacy group Domestic Workers United, asked the women if they were familiar with the state's new Domestic Workers' Bill of Rights, better known as the ''nanny law.'' The two nannies, both from the West Indies, shook their heads.
''We have to stick together,'' urged Ms. Francois, a Trinidadian, handing them pamphlets describing the measure. ''What we have is people power.'' 
More than seven months after the bill was signed into law with some fanfare, most domestic workers and their employers seem unaware of it, and its impact on the often-fluid business arrangements between the two groups appears to have been negligible, say nannies, labor advocates, state officials and others.
The law is the only one in the nation to offer specific protections for domestic workers, including nannies, housekeepers and caregivers for the elderly. The result of years of ardent advocacy and political wrangling, it allows temporary disability benefits for full-time home workers, and provides redress for workplace sexual harassment and discrimination. It requires employers to pay time-and-a-half for overtime work and to provide at least three vacation days a year, and it enshrines a legal workday of eight hours and a workweek of 40 hours, or 44 for live-in workers.
Proponents hoped the law would quickly lend some clarity to a murky relationship that workers and employees have had to negotiate without a defined sense of what is fair. And they did not expect change to come easily: Many domestic workers are illegal immigrants and may be afraid to speak up, and many employers pay workers under the table and may not be inclined to negotiate new terms that could cost more.
But Keith L. T. Wright, the state assemblyman who sponsored the bill, said he had no sense of how the law was being received in homes, or whether news of the measure had even gotten there.
''It comes down to marketing,'' he said. ''Maybe we should put a Domestic Workers' Bill of Rights on each and every refrigerator door just to let people know.''
So Ms. Francois and other volunteers for Domestic Workers United have been combing the New York region -- playgrounds, subway stations, churches and immigrant neighborhoods -- finding and educating members of what has largely been an underground economy.
The group's director, Priscilla Gonzalez, said that since the bill passed last summer, her organization had fielded a sharp increase in calls about the law from employers and employees. And since the statute went into effect in November, workers have filed five complaints under the law with the State Department of Labor, an agency spokesman said.
But Ms. Gonzalez and other labor advocates acknowledged that it was difficult getting the word out to a domestic work force that the Labor Department estimates at 120,000 to 240,000 statewide. ''The fact that there have been no standards in this sector has set the tone,'' Ms. Gonzalez said.
The Labor Department has begun disseminating information about the law using the Web, foreign consulates and community groups, said Leo Rosales, a department spokesman. Domestic Workers United, its lead partner in the effort, will soon start workshops ''about how to achieve agreements that work for both parties,'' Ms. Gonzalez said, adding that the events will be aimed as much toward employers as employees.
Indeed, most employers interviewed for this article said they knew little or nothing about the legislation. The city's parenting blogs and their lively discussion threads have barely touched the subject.
''It's been amazingly quiet,'' said Susan Fox, founder of Park Slope Parents, a Web site based in Brooklyn. ''I think in general people feel like they are doing more than this legislation requires.''
Dr. Fox said the biggest hurdle in the law for many parents was the overtime provision. ''I don't think that people are really taking it to heart,'' she said.
''Many nannies are paid weekly, and the perception of employers is that it's like being on salary,'' she added. ''Perhaps one week the nanny works 35 hours, the next week 45 hours, but the employer pays for 40 hours weekly and may think that it all evens out in the end.''
Many domestic workers said that while they were paid well above the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour, the looseness of the arrangements sometimes made them resentful.
Marlyn, a West Indian immigrant who is a nanny for a child in New York, said she worked a 50-hour week, Monday to Friday, and was paid $700. If she works longer, her employers sometimes give her extra cash, though they may instead give her compensatory time, which she said was ''wrong.''
While the lack of consistency in the compensation bothers her, she said she was unlikely to voice those concerns. ''To raise these kinds of issues can be very uncomfortable,'' she said, asking that her surname not be published because she did not want to anger her employers.
Tamara Mose Brown, author of ''Raising Brooklyn,'' a book about Caribbean child care workers published this year, said those conversations might become more common, but only if the law is well publicized and enforced. ''If domestic workers aren't seeing the accountability and don't see any publicity of these cases, they won't know,'' said Ms. Mose Brown, an assistant professor of sociology at Brooklyn College.
Mr. Rosales, the Labor Department spokesman, said enforcement of the law would largely rely on complaints from workers and advocates.
He said four of the five complaints filed so far were still pending, preventing him from discussing them. The fifth involved $2,551 in overtime pay owed to a New York City housekeeper, he said. The Labor Department forced the employer to pay the sum, and to pay the state $2,000 in penalties.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Central Park, members of Domestic Workers United, from left, Patricia Francois, Debra Cole and Laura Alvarado, talked with a nanny about the new law. It is the only one in the country to offer specific protections for domestic workers.
 Gricelda Sanchez at an outreach training session for members of Domestic Workers United. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OVERTIME (90%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (77%); WORK WEEK (77%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (62%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (62%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



354 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Ultimate Spoiler Alert

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
President Obama and Paul Ryan are two of the smartest, most admirable and most genial men in Washington. It is sad, although not strange, that in today's Washington they have never had a serious private conversation. The president has never invited Ryan over even for lunch.
As a result, both men are misinformed about the other, and both have developed a cold contempt for the other's position. Obama believes Ryan wants to take America back to what he sees as the savage capitalism of the 1920s (or even the 1760s). Ryan believes Obama wants to turn America into a declining European welfare state. 
If they met, would they resolve their differences? No, but they would understand them better. Paul Ryan believes five things Barack Obama does not. First, he believes that aging populations, expensive new health care technologies and the extravagant political promises have made the current welfare state model unsustainable. Fundamental reform is necessary or the whole thing will collapse, here and in Europe.
Second, he believes that seniors and the middle class cannot be excused from the benefit cuts that will have to be imposed to rebalance these systems. Third, he believes that health care costs will not be brought under control until consumers take responsibility for their decisions and providers have market-based incentives to reduce prices.
Fourth, he believes that tax increases should not be part of these reforms because the economic costs outweigh the gains. Fifth, he does not believe government can nurture growth and reduce wage stagnation with targeted investments.
Obama, meanwhile, does not believe the current welfare arrangements are structurally unsustainable. They have to be adjusted, but not fundamentally altered. He does not believe the seniors and members of the middle class have to suffer significantly in the course of these adjustments. The approach he outlined Wednesday mostly shields these groups from cuts, even if Congress can't reach a deal on deficit-cutting and a fiscal trigger kicks in.
Obama does not believe in relying on market mechanisms to reduce health care costs. Instead, he would rely mostly on a board of technical experts, who would be given power to force their recommendations upon Congress.
Obama believes that tax increases on the rich have to be part of a fiscal package. His approach claims to contain $3 in cuts for every $1 in taxes, but if you count these things the way a normal person would, it's closer to 1 to 1. Finally, Obama believes that government investments in research and infrastructure nurture broad-based prosperity.
Personally, I agree with Ryan on items 1-3 and with Obama on items 4 and 5, and I think an acceptable package could be put together to reconcile these views. But I do not believe there is any chance this will happen in the current climate. What's going to happen is this: We're going to raise the debt ceiling in a way that fudges the issues. Then we're going to have an election featuring these rival viewpoints, and Obama will win easily.
It doesn't take a genius to see that Obama is very likely to be re-elected. Every few years, Republicans try to reform the welfare delivery systems to make them more marketlike. Every few years, voters, even Republican voters, reject this. The situation today is slightly less hostile to these ideas, but not much.
The president, meanwhile, hit the political sweet spot with his speech this week. He made a sincere call to reduce debt, which will please independents, but he did not specify any tough choices. He called for defense cuts and asked the Pentagon to find some. He called for a reduction in tax credits but didn't point to any that should actually go. He called for reductions in Medicare costs and asked his board of technocrats to come up with some.
These are exactly the sort of vague but well-intentioned policies that have sold well in election after election. The president is not being cynical about this. He genuinely does believe that seniors and the middle class can be spared from any shared sacrifice. He really does believe in calling together teams of experts to devise proper solutions. Obama's sincere preferences happen to be more popular.
Hopes of any Gang of 6-style bipartisan compromise are being washed away by the partisan fury. After the next election, though, interest costs on the national debt are likely to rise ruinously, global markets might lose confidence in America's debt, with catastrophic consequences.
The coming age of permanent austerity will be terrible for those conventional Democrats and Republicans who propose policies that could pass only if the other party ceased to exist. But it will be a moment of opportunity for us Hamiltonians, who believe, with Ryan, in market mechanisms to allocate resources and control costs and also, with Obama, in government's ability to selectively nurture prosperity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); TAX INCREASES (87%); TAX LAW (86%); HEALTH CARE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); AGING (68%); AGING TRENDS (68%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



355 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Obama Goes to Chicago to Talk Money, and Raise It

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JEFF ZELENY; Mark Landler reported from Chicago, and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- President Obama, having drawn battle lines with Republicans over how to cut the deficit, returned to his political home here Thursday for a fund-raising visit, bringing the message of fiscal responsibility and core Democratic values he laid out in a speech a day earlier.
Mr. Obama's overnight visit -- which included a reunion with his former chief of staff, now the mayor-elect of Chicago, Rahm Emanuel -- amounted to an unofficial kickoff of his re-election campaign. 
He was to spend the night in his own house in the city's Hyde Park neighborhood, the first time he has been back since before his bruising setback in the midterm elections.
On Thursday, Mr. Obama seemed anything but bowed, extolling his legislative record and telling about 100 supporters at a steakhouse: ''The speech I gave yesterday was not a partisan shot at the other side. It was an attempt to clarify the choice we have as a country right now.''
Mr. Obama, who was introduced by Mr. Emanuel, said the Republicans were promoting a pessimistic vision, in which the United States can no longer afford to invest in roads, bridges or health care.
''That's the choice they pose,'' Mr. Obama declared, while noting that his plan comes with costs as well, in the form of tax increases on higher-income Americans. ''If most of the people in this room can't afford to pay a little more in taxes, then a lot of this stuff we can't afford.''
Mr. Obama was only a little more combative than in his policy address Wednesday at George Washington University, in which he dismissed the deficit-cutting plan proposed by House Republicans as an attack on the elderly in need of affordable medical care and a tax giveaway to the wealthy.
The president's advisers insisted that the speech was not politically motivated, but reflected deep philosophical differences between Democrats and Republicans about the role of government. Those differences, they said, should not prevent the two sides from making a deal.
''This speech was not the contrivance of a political laboratory,'' said David Axelrod, a senior strategist advising the Obama campaign. ''These are longstanding issues the president believes in.''
Mr. Axelrod, who recently left the White House for Chicago, said that fiscal policy would be a defining issue of the 2012 campaign, and that it posed risks to both parties. Mr. Obama's plan would also cut government programs and strictly limit cost increases in Medicare and Medicaid.
''Any approach you make to solve this problem involves choices, and the choices you make define you,'' said Mr. Axelrod, who remains in close touch with Mr. Obama and his former colleagues in the White House. ''We've also taken friendly fire on some of these issues.''
In Chicago, however, Mr. Obama was among friends. In an unusual move for an incumbent president, he has based his re-election headquarters here, rather than in Washington, to emphasize the grass-roots spirit of his campaign. He was expected to raise more than $2 million from three back-to-back events, one of which featured star players from the Chicago Bulls and Cubs.
Supporters making a maximum donation of $35,800 to the Democratic Party were treated to an intimate dinner at MK, a bistro that sits near the ''El'' tracks on the city's north side. A second dinner for people writing checks up to $15,000 was at N9NE, a trendy steakhouse. The reception at Navy Pier, for rank-and-file supporters, had a fee of $100.
As he begins his campaign, Mr. Obama faces a fractured Republican field, in which many of the presumed contenders have yet to declare or to begin raising money. This time four years ago, Mr. Obama had already been running for three months and had raised $25 million.
On Thursday, the advantages of incumbency were on full display, with the president meeting the emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, in the Oval Office to discuss the status of a coalition military operation in Libya, before taking Air Force One to Chicago in the afternoon.
Several potential Republican rivals, meanwhile, were driving around New Hampshire without the trappings of high office, hoping to gain traction by introducing themselves to voters.
Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, who said he would decide this month whether to run, praised the budget deal reached last week that averted a government shutdown minutes before midnight. He called it a ''single in the first inning on the deficit reduction.'' (And being in New Hampshire, he also reminded voters that he was a Boston Red Sox fan.)
Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota who just opened a presidential exploratory committee, has urged Republicans to oppose the agreement to cut $38 billion from the 2011 budget. ''The more we learn about the budget deal, the worse it looks,'' he declared.
While there is little consensus about which Republican candidate will emerge as the party's nominee, the contours of the debate are being drawn.
Mr. Obama's speech, with its pledge to protect programs like Medicaid, and the Republican plan, drawn up by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, with its emphasis on deep cuts in taxes and spending, offer two starkly competing visions.
As the president opens an aggressive fund-raising drive this month, with trips next week set for Los Angeles and San Francisco, he is seeking to recruit supporters from the 2008 race. He previewed his pitch during telephone calls with grass-roots activists after he formally opened his re-election committee.
''We may not have the exact same newness that we had in 2008,'' Mr. Obama said in a call last week. ''That core spirit about what this campaign has always been about, I think, is still there.''
The split screen of the campaign operation in Chicago and the White House in Washington serves as a metaphor for what Mr. Obama hopes to accomplish in this campaign season: working with Republicans in Congress, while trying to keep his core supporters energized.
Speaking to a crowd of younger supporters at the Navy Pier, Mr. Obama tried to rekindle the excitement of his 2008 campaign, while acknowledging that he still had a ''day job.'' ''This is not my campaign; this is your campaign,'' Mr. Obama said, in a preview of his new stump speech.
But as the president wrapped up his remarks, he reached for a tried-and-true closer: ''Yes, we can.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with his former chief of staff and the current mayor-elect of Chicago, Rahm Emanuel, at an event Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONTUSIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MAYORS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MEDICARE (70%); TAX INCREASES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); MEDICAID (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); ELDER ABUSE (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RAHM EMANUEL (88%); DAVID AXELROD (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



356 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; PLAYOFFS PREVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Smoke. No Fire.

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA

 BODY:
MIAMI -- With a roster headlined by LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh, the Miami Heat, at least in theory, has enough star power to effortlessly rally a city and pump up a crowd.
But in Miami, where people love parties but rarely arrive to any of them on time, it has not quite worked out that way: Ticket holders straggle in long after the opening tip and flee en masse midway through the fourth quarter to beat the traffic. Clusters of red-and-orange seats remain blindingly vacant, making American Airlines Arena appear half-empty on television.
Meanwhile, the arena's plush lounges are jammed with fans sipping mojitos, snacking on tapas and taking in the sumptuous Miami skyline. Texting is rarely interrupted for cheering. And when P. Diddy claims his courtside seat -- midway through the second quarter, usually -- his presence creates more electricity among the nearby high-paying fans than any alley-oop dunk by the Three Kings, as The Miami Herald has christened James, Wade and Bosh. 
''This is the most interesting sports team of my lifetime,'' said Dan Le Batard, a local sports radio commentator at the Heat's flagship station and a Herald columnist. ''And yet when LeBron does the powder toss before each home game, he does it before a bunch of empty seats. It's embarrassing.''
Even before the current season began, Heat executives, worried about South Florida basketball fans' notoriously distracted behavior, began imploring fans -- bribing is probably not too strong a word -- to show up on time, and be rewarded with discounts at the concession stands. The Fan Up, Miami! program, not shockingly, was ridiculed across the country.
It is not necessarily the players, though. It might just be the town.
''We are a bipolar city,'' said Josh Baumgard, a Heat fan who writes the MIA Sports Guy blog and works at WQAM, a sports radio station. ''This is probably the best product in the N.B.A. and the team needed to put out a memo to get people to come out in time for tip-off and cheer. It's sad.''
Rick Torrente, a season-ticket holder since 2000, is stunned that some season-ticket holders in his section do not take their seats until halftime. ''In general, and I'm sorry to say this and sad to say this: Miami fans are not true fans,'' Torrente said. ''I have never seen a team work so hard to get people to cheer.''
It was not supposed to be this hard.
When James and Bosh decided to join Wade in Miami last July, their move transformed the Heat into one of the league's marquee clubs. Brokers bought season tickets at mark-ups of 400 to 500 percent. (Torrente said he sold a pair of his $130 face value tickets for $600 each.)
But South Florida's shipwrecked economy has made premium tickets difficult to resell. On many nights, brokers say they are forced to sell some of the arena's best seats at deep discounts.
''Our city is broke,'' Le Batard said. ''You've got the rich people who don't value those seats, but if you look at the television and radio ratings, they are going crazy. People are very interested in the team -- they just can't afford to go to the games. As much as a bandwagon town that this is, I just think a lot of what you are seeing in the arena has to do with the economy.''
Fair enough. But there are other factors involved. James's now-infamous declaration live on ESPN last July -- ''This fall, I'm going to take my talents to South Beach'' -- made the Heat the most despised team in the league. And it has turned off some longtime Miami Heat fans, like Anita Marks, who grew up in South Florida.
''LeBron kind of ruined it for me,'' Marks said. ''I watch and enjoy it more when they lose.''
Some fans assumed the team would cruise through the regular season, but the team's lack of chemistry contributed to a wobbly 9-8 start. And the Heat, which play the Sixers in the opening round of the playoffs, has struggled against the league's elite teams.
Although the Los Angeles Lakers have also had to hunt for innovations to energize distracted fans, the problem is more deeply entrenched. Florida, after all, is transient, full of people newly arrived or on their way through.
''Miami is the only city in America where you go to any professional sporting event, and you can expect half the crowd to root for the other team,'' said Sid Rosenberg, a WQAM sports commentator and unapologetic Knicks fan. In addition, he said, ''this is a football town.''
Mindful of these challenges, Heat executives last October initiated the program Fan Up, Miami! Fans in their seats before the game are handed black cards rewarding them with 10 percent discounts at concession stands. ''Thanks for Showing Up on Time! We Noticed,'' the cards read.
The strangeness of it all is only underscored because the Heat is not an upstart franchise; the team won the N.B.A. championship in 2006.
Team executives challenged fans to mute the criticism by attending all 48 minutes of home games. ''The organization stepped up and put a team together that every other team wants,'' Michael McCullough, the Heat's executive vice president and chief marketing officer, told The Sun-Sentinel last October. ''Let's show we're worthy.''
McCullough and other Heat officials declined to comment for this article.
''We laugh at these people who arrive four minutes before halftime and then they go out to the bar and get something to eat and they don't return until early in the fourth quarter,'' said Norman Braman, the longtime Eagles owner and Miami auto-dealership magnate who regularly attends Heat games with his wife.
Scott Raab, a writer for Esquire and a Cavaliers fan who is now writing a book about James's departure from Cleveland and fan loyalty, said Heat fans love their mojitos most of all. ''I have been to Jets games where the crowd holds their liquor better,'' Raab said.
A Heat home game ranks among the loudest in the N.B.A., but much of the noise is artificial. A platoon of Heat employees, all armed with microphones, repeatedly order fans to cheer. The public-address announcer Michael Baiamonte regularly shrieks, ''Ladies and gentlemen, stand up and make some noise for your Miami Heaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaat!'' A rap D.J. named DJ M. Dot even shouts, ''Make some noise.''
Last Sunday afternoon, the Heat played its final regular-season home game, against the Boston Celtics. The No. 2 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference was up for grabs. But fans once again straggled late into the arena as a national TV audience watched. It was Heat Fan Appreciation Day, and the team rewarded a handful of ''the best fans in the N.B.A.'' with gifts like autographed sneakers and new tires. In return, the Heat could be forgiven for hoping fans would reciprocate during an impressive 100-77 victory.
In a videotape played for the crowd, James said, ''Without you guys, there's no us.''
The Heat begins the playoffs at home on Saturday against Philadelphia. Veteran fans, like Braman, are hopeful that even the people sitting near P. Diddy will rally around the team that the rest of America loves to hate.
''They may be villains,'' Le Batard said, ''but they're our villains.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LeBron James's pregame ritual of tossing powder before home games is usually done before some empty seats. Nearby bars are often full, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC GAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS FANS (74%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); WRITERS (65%); RADIO FORMATS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI HEAT (84%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



357 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: At Meeting of World Financial Bodies, a Sharper Focus on Middle East Inequalities

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The World Bank once hailed Tunisia's economic reforms, noting the country's increasing prosperity over the last decade.
Officials now describe the country as a cautionary tale. By focusing primarily on the country's growth, the World Bank and other international bodies failed to notice widening inequalities. Now, in the wake of a revolution still shaking the region, the World Bank says Tunisia can serve as a model for a revised approach.
The bank announced this week that it would provide $500 million to the new government of the North African country in exchange for a package of reforms, including changes in how the government awards contracts and allows public access to information about public spending, shifts intended to foster a more equitable society. 
Robert B. Zoellick, the bank's president, said that he hopes to extend this new focus on ''inclusive growth'' to other Middle Eastern countries, including Egypt, where past rounds of reforms also have failed to lift people from poverty.
The question of how to improve the economic prospects of the Middle East has attracted significant attention at the annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund being held here this week.
Everyone says jobs must be created. Everyone can explain what went wrong with the old strategies. Better answers are harder to find.
''The question is jobs, jobs, jobs,'' Dominique Strauss-Kahn, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said Thursday in a typical pronouncement. ''What does it mean for most people around the world if you have a recovery in macroeconomic figures but it doesn't produce jobs? The example is Tunisia.''
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, however, did not explain what should be done differently.
Nonetheless, nations and multinational groups are lined up with money in hand.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton announced in February that the United States would set aside $150 million to provide assistance to Egypt.
The Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a federal agency that finances private projects in foreign countries, said in March that it would make up to $2 billion in new investments in the Middle East, on top of the $2.6 billion it has already invested in the region.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, created to help finance the rise of market-based economies in Eastern Europe, is considering a request from Egypt to start lending on the other side of the Mediterranean.
Several multinational agencies convened Thursday by the United States and France to discuss the issue, including the I.M.F. and an arm of the World Bank, said in a statement that they had agreed to develop a regional investment strategy and have initial recommendations by the end of May
Businesses also are eager to take advantage of a new willingness on the part of some governments in the region to embrace foreign investors.
''We want to help people in those countries have a better life while at the same time, we're in it to make money,'' said Myron Brilliant, senior vice president for international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, who recently traveled to Jordan at the invitation of the government to discuss investment opportunities.
Egypt's finance minister, Samir Mohamed Radwan, told an audience at the Chamber of Commerce on Thursday that he knew exactly what was needed.
''It's very simple,'' said Mr. Radwan. ''In the short term, I need cash.''
The Egyptian government also wants the United States to forgive about $3.6 billion in outstanding debts.
Egypt must pay the United States about $350 million each year, while the nation receives about $250 million in economic aid from the United States.
Mr. Zoellick, however, said on Thursday that international aid should not be just a question of money.
The lesson of recent events, he said, was that Middle Eastern governments need to become more accountable to their populations, providing genuine opportunity.
He referred to Mohamed Bouazizi, the Tunisian fruit vendor who immolated himself after the police seized his scales and slapped his face, to argue that economic development in the Arab world is being suppressed by oppressive bureaucracy.
''Keep in mind,'' Mr. Zoellick said, ''the late Mr. Bouazizi was basically driven to burn himself alive because he was harassed with red tape.''
''One starting point is to quit harassing those people and let them have a chance to start some small businesses,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Samir Mohamed Radwan, right, an Egyptian minister, with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, says his country needs cash. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CONTRACT AWARDS (70%)

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (78%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (94%); TUNISIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



358 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Spending Agreement Hurts Police and Fire Agencies

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
It may have kept the federal government from shutting down, but the budget agreement that President Obama struck with Congress will make it harder for some struggling cities to keep their police stations and firehouses staffed.
A program that helps cash-starved cities hire police officers -- which has become highly sought-after in recent years as the economic downturn has forced cities from Camden, N.J., to Oakland, Calif., to take the rare step of laying off police officers -- was cut by $52 million.
The reduction means that the program, under which the Justice Department awards cities grants that pay the full salary and benefits of new officers for three years, will be able to pay for roughly 200 fewer officers this year than it did last year, when it paid for 1,388 officers. 
The budget deal also changed the rules governing a similar program that helps struggling cities hire firefighters -- reducing the grants so much, union and city officials said, that many cities may find themselves unable to take advantage of the program.
Many cities have eagerly sought the grants to pay for firefighters as the budget crunch has forced fire departments in Philadelphia, San Diego and Baltimore to institute what they call ''rolling brownouts,'' in which they shut down different firehouses each day because they cannot afford to staff them.
The firefighter grants, administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, have been used in the past year to rehire 252 previously laid off firefighters, retain 161 firefighters in danger of losing their jobs and hire 1,253 new firefighters.
But Harold A. Schaitberger, the general president of the International Association of Fire Fighters, said changes made to the law during the conference committee process would probably render the program useless to many cities.
Under the old law, the grants could pay the full salaries and benefits of firefighters for two years. But the new budget agreement caps the amount of money that can be awarded at levels well below the true cost of a firefighter's salary and fringe benefits, Mr. Schaitberger said.
Other provisions would make it hard for the most truly distressed cities -- which have drastically cut their fire budgets, and which may not be able to promise to retain the new firefighters after the grants run out -- to qualify for the program.
The result, Mr. Schaitberger said, is that many cities will not be able to afford the program.
''It is money appropriated in a bill that municipalities will not be able to access,'' he said, warning that departments would find themselves stretched when responding to their communities. ''They're going to be doing it shorthanded, short-staffed.''
While police and fire protection are paid for mostly by local communities, the federal help has allowed some cities to maintain services they would have otherwise lost.
Lawrence, Mass., a city 25 miles north of Boston that laid off 23 firefighters and shut down half of its six firehouses last summer, is a perfect example. The city is in the process of rehiring the 23 firefighters, along with 15 new firefighters, with the help of federal grants. And it will soon reopen one of its closed firehouses.
Officials there doubt that they could have done so if the grants had not covered the full cost of the firefighters. ''We don't have the resources to cover the rest of it,'' said Leonard Degnan, the chief of staff to Lawrence's mayor, William Lantigua. ''Without that grant, you would have an absolute public safety fiasco in the city of Lawrence.''
The budget agreement also cut millions from programs that allow local law enforcement agencies to upgrade technology, including for crime analysis and DNA processing, and millions more from a program designed to help police and fire departments streamline radio systems so they can communicate with each other in emergencies.
Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, said that while the federal government could not, and should not, supplant what state and local governments did, it had provided vital resources to departments. These cuts come, he said, ''at a particularly daunting time for state and local agencies.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CITIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



359 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: 2011 Budget Bill With Cuts Is Approved by Congress

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congress voted Thursday to keep the government financed through September, putting an end to a raucous first skirmish in this year's showdown between Democrats and Republicans over federal spending while presaging bigger ones to come.
Scores of House Republicans deserted their leadership to vote against the bill, which cut $38 billion in spending, saying it did not go far enough. As a result, Speaker John A. Boehner was forced to rely on large numbers of Democrats to pass the measure, which subsequently sailed through the Senate, 81 to 19. It went to President Obama for his signature.
Over the last several days, House Republican leaders repeatedly defended the bill, the product of a bipartisan compromise last week less than two hours before the government would have shut down. They said that while it fell short of their goal of cutting $61 billion from spending this year, it nonetheless established the principle that the budget would have to be substantially reined in.
''Is it perfect?'' Mr. Boehner said, in his final appeal to members on the House floor. ''No. I'd be the first to admit it's flawed. But welcome to divided government.'' 
The House vote was 260 to 167, with 59 Republicans breaking ranks to vote against the deal. The large number of defections highlighted the challenge facing Mr. Boehner as he tiptoes between conservatives who ran on a shake-it-up agenda and the limitations of what the House can do when Democrats control the Senate and the White House.
The number of House Republicans who voted against the measure would have been 60 had Representative Louie Gohmert of Texas not arrived too late to vote. Afterward, Mr. Gohmert approached the podium and said sheepishly that the bill ''didn't live up to our promises,'' before walking away. Among the 87 Republican freshmen, many of whom ran on a platform of ''cut it now,'' 60 voted in favor of the bill and 27 against.
Yet for all its last-minute drama and attendant partisan theatrics, the bill -- made necessary after Democrats failed to pass a 2011 budget in the last Congress -- was just an opening act for more consequential battles to come before this Congress.
Thursday's vote was the precursor to an expected vote on Friday in the House on a budget blueprint for the next fiscal year that will call for a sea change in the structures of the giant Medicare and Medicaid entitlement programs, a measure almost certainly dead on arrival in the Democrat-controlled Senate. That fight, in turn, could be linked to the politically and economically explosive question of whether to approve an increase in the federal debt ceiling, a step many conservatives say they will resist unless Mr. Obama and his party agree to deep spending cuts for 2012 and beyond.
A mutual desire to avoid a crippling government shutdown led Democrats and Republicans to scratch their way toward a deal this time, but the far more difficult task of reducing government spending in a legislature divided not by political parties but by ideological factions will be far more difficult, especially as the 2012 election edges closer.
Almost immediately after the vote, the House moved right into a rowdy debate over the 2012 budget plan written by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the Budget Committee chairman. Mr. Ryan said his plan would reduce projected annual deficits by a cumulative $4.4 trillion over the next decade through further cuts in discretionary spending programs and by turning Medicare into a ''defined benefit,'' replacing the current system with one in which older Americans would choose among private insurance plans. Those plans would be paid for by the government, up to preset limits. Mr. Ryan also wants to turn Medicaid into a block grant program, and to reduce the tax rates for corporations and individuals.
''This is a serious budget,'' said Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona. ''For all this talk about preserving Medicare, preserving Medicare as it currently is means that you are consigning it to history.''
The White House is seeking to keep the debate over the 2012 budget separate from the need to raise the debt ceiling in coming months. But many Republicans see the necessity of raising the debt limit as the best leverage they have to extract concessions from the administration and Senate Democrats, setting up months of brinkmanship this spring and summer.
''The president has asked us to raise the debt ceiling,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican minority leader. ''Republicans, and I hope many Democrats as well, will say, 'Mr. President, as a condition for raising the debt ceiling, you'll need to agree to do something significant.' And by significant, I mean something the markets view as significant, the American people view as significant, and foreign countries view as significant.''
House Republicans tried Thursday to suggest that the framework for the future negotiations, however hard fought, will come from their ranks. The party has ''stopped spending our future and started saving our future,'' Representative Ander Crenshaw, Republican of Florida, said on the House floor.
While opposing many aspects of the compromise budget bill for the remainder of this fiscal year, Democrats agreed to help lift it to passage. The minority leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, voted against the bill, while the Democratic whip, Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, voted in favor. Quoting the 19th-century lawmaker Henry Clay, Mr. Hoyer said on the House floor, ''If you cannot compromise, you cannot govern.'' Mr. Hoyer added: ''The priorities that we have agreed to in this resolution are not my priorities. But we have reached an agreement.''
Realizing that the majority was going to need Democratic votes to pass the measure and avoid a shutdown, aides said that Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the No. 3 Republican, reached out to Mr. Hoyer, the second-ranking Democrat, for help on Thursday. Democrats initially did not have enough firm supporters of the measure, one official said, prompting Mr. Hoyer and his allies to reach out to lawmakers and round up what ultimately amounted to 81 Democrat votes, enough to provide a comfortable margin.
Those Republicans who voted against the measure -- perhaps further egged on by Mr. Obama's speech on Wednesday in which he laid out a long-term budget framework that differed in almost every substantive way from Mr. Ryan's -- said they simply wanted more cuts.
''I respect my leadership and applaud them for giving it their best,'' Representative Joe Walsh, Republican of Illinois, said on his Facebook page. ''But I did not come here to blink. I was sent here to run to the mountaintop and yell for all the world to hear.''
Congress also voted on two other measures, one to deny federal funds to Planned Parenthood and another to roll back the 2010 health care overhaul. The first measure passed 241 to 185, with Representative Justin Amash, Republican of Michigan, voting present, while the measure seeking to repeal the health care act passed 240 to 185. Both measures, brought to the floor as part of the deal last Friday between Republicans and Democrats, failed in the Senate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representatives Nancy Pelosi and Chris Van Hollen, both Democrats, Thursday at the Capitol. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) CHART: The Vote in the House: Many members of the Republican Study Committee, a large conservative bloc, voted against the bill to cut roughly $38 billion in spending from the 2011 budget. But, with the support of dozens of Democrats, the bill passed, 260 to 167 (214 votes were needed to pass). (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); MEDICARE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MEDICAID (58%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); LOUIE GOHMERT (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



360 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: British Path: Rocky Result

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- In the United States, the debate over how to cut the long-term budget deficit is just getting under way.
But in Britain, one year into its own controversial austerity program to plug a gaping fiscal hole, the future is now. And for the moment, the early returns are less than promising.
Retail sales plunged 3.5 percent in March, the sharpest monthly downturn in Britain in 15 years. And a new report by the Center for Economic and Business Research, an independent research group based here, forecasts that real household income will fall by 2 percent this year. That would make Britain's income squeeze the worst for two consecutive years since the 1930s.
All of which has challenged the view of Britain's top economic official, George Osborne, that during a time of high deficits and economic weakness, the best approach is to aggressively attack the deficit first, through rapid-fire cuts aimed at the heart of Britain's welfare state. 
Doing so, says Mr. Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, secures the trust of the financial markets, and thereby ensures the low interest rates necessary for long-term economic growth.
That approach, and the question of whether it risks stifling an economic recovery that might itself help narrow the budget gap, lies at the root of the deficit debate in the United States. On one side is the go-slow strategy favored by President Obama. On the other is the more radical path championed by the Republicans. The two camps are no doubt closely watching Britain's experiment.
On paper, at least, both countries face broadly similar deficit challenges. Britain aims to close a fiscal gap of about 10 percent of gross domestic product. The comparable figure in the United States is 9.5 percent.
In Washington, the Republican proposal recently sketched out by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin calls for broad and significant cuts in social spending, including Medicare and Medicaid, and wide-ranging tax cuts.
On Wednesday, President Obama called for a more balanced approach, one that he said would combine some tax increases for the wealthy with selective spending cuts that he said would not break the ''basic social contract'' of programs like Medicare and Medicaid.
While severe in its approach to spending cuts, the British plan lacks the stark sweep of the Republican proposal. Britons will certainly feel pain at the local government level as money dries up for care of the elderly, youth programs and trash collection. But icons like the National Health Service have largely been spared.
Other notable differences suggest that even Europe's most conservative party is markedly to the left of the mainstream Republican position in the United States, and in some ways is more liberal than the position Mr. Obama has taken.
To strike a political balance, the coalition government led by Prime Minister David Cameron of the Conservative Party, Mr. Osborne -- himself a Conservative -- has retained a 50 percent income tax rate on the wealthiest individuals. That is among the highest in Europe, and it imposes more of a burden on the rich than anything Mr. Obama or anyone else in Washington would find politically feasible.
But in Britain, the big worry now is not tax rates. Instead, the fear is that Mr. Osborne's emphasis on cuts in social spending -- which aim to achieve an approximate budget surplus by 2015 and are likely to result in the loss of more than 300,000 government jobs -- might tip the economy back into recession.
Already the government has had to slash its growth estimate to 1.7 percent, from 2.4 percent, for this year, as consumer incomes are under pressure from high inflation, weak wage growth and stagnant economic activity.
''My view is that we are in serious danger of a double-dip recession,'' said Richard Portes, an economist at the London Business School. ''This is going to be a cautionary tale.''
Not all economists agree, of course. And this week's slight improvement in the unemployment rate, to 7.8 percent from 7.9 percent, suggests it is still too early to declare a second slump inevitable.
No one would disagree with Mr. Portes that a deficit of 10 percent of G.D.P. is unsustainable in the long run. But, with the opposition Labour Party, he argues that moving so quickly in the face of weak economic growth is not justified.
Mr. Osborne proposes to slash the deficit to 1.5 percent by 2015. By comparison, the stark program Mr. Ryan offers does not project reaching that deficit target until 2021.
Besides the difference in speed, a crucial distinction is how each plan would reach its goal. Mr. Osborne's plan calls for 75 percent of savings to come from spending cuts, and the rest from mostly indirect revenue and tax increases -- an increase in the sales tax, for example.
Mr. Ryan, on the other hand, proposes to slash spending by $5.8 trillion but -- in contrast to the British approach -- would allow most of the spending reductions to be offset by $4.2 trillion in tax cuts, rather than applied to closing the deficit gap. In other words, while Mr. Ryan would lean heavily on spending cuts to close the deficit, he also hopes to spur the sort of supply-side economic growth most often discussed when Ronald Reagan was in the White House.
But while the continued lure of Reagan-style tax policy seems to have contributed significantly to the Ryan plan, Mr. Osborne has defied the popular caricature of him as a heartless Tory pushing a Thatcheresque agenda. He has refused to cut the tax rate for top earners, despite calls to do so from his party's right flank and Britain's powerful financial sector.
Such an approach might still be heresy to many Republicans in the United States. But in Britain, as in the rest of Europe, it has become widely accepted.
''It's hard to cut taxes and lower the deficit -- that is why personal tax cuts can't be justified,'' said Patrick Nolan, chief economist at Reform, a right-of-center research organization based here.
Mr. Osborne has taken other steps to make sure the wealthy pay their share, from taxing banks to the oil companies, which Mr. Osborne's top advisers say is crucial to convincing Britons that sacrifice will be shared. While gritting their teeth at these populist measures, Britain's businesses and banks have largely accepted Mr. Osborne's plan.
Last week, as Portugal became the third country in Europe, after Greece and Ireland, to petition the European Union for a financial bailout, Mr. Osborne was vocal in underscoring his central contention as a deficit hawk: that in this new debt-averse era, no country has the luxury of delaying the painful steps needed to balance government books.
Many analysts support that view.
''People can march and break windows all they like, but you can not get away from not cutting the deficit,'' Douglas McWilliams, the chief economist at the Center for Economic and Business Research and an author of its report on the plight of the British consumer.
His forecast of about 1 percent British economic growth this year is one of the lowest to be found anywhere. Yet he, too, says that to backtrack now from the government's austerity plan would be folly -- and would severely rattle the British bond market, which has been quite forgiving compared with the high interest rates the markets have imposed on Greece, Ireland and Portugal.
Remarkably, yields on the British government's 10-year bonds are slightly above the 3.6 percent or so achieved by Germany, which has Europe's healthiest economy. That is partly because Britain lies outside of the euro zone and can control its own monetary policy. But those relatively low interest rates have helped gird the support Mr. Osborne has so far received from the British business community.
In that sense, comparing the British and American deficit-cutting plans becomes a bit more difficult. In Europe the bond market is the ultimate judge of deficit-reduction plans. In the United States, by contrast, the global demand for Treasury bills, and the benefits of the Federal Reserve Board's easy-money ''quantitative easing'' policy, have kept 10-year bond yields well below those of Britain.
Those low American interest rates, in turn, have reduced the pressure on Washington to take more immediate, painful steps to pare the deficit.
But, as the example of Europe has borne out, at some stage foreign bond investors might tire of financing unsustainable deficits -- even Washington's. If and when they do, a government has little choice but to cut.
How deep, and how fast, depends on how long a government waits to begin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Osborne, top, the chancellor of the Exchequer, at an auto plant in Solihull, England, seeks to attack the deficit with big cuts. But persistent economic weakness, with store closings like the one above in London, has challenged that approach. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID JONES
 ANDY RAIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); MEDICARE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); MEDICAID (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); TAX LAW (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (64%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); RETAIL SALES (56%); INTEREST RATES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (88%); PAUL RYAN (79%); DAVID CAMERON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



361 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Obama Puts Deficit Ball Back in Pentagon's Court

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates disclosed his new military budget plan in January, he ordered $78 billion in cuts over five years, on top of several hundred billion dollars in savings already found by canceling weapons programs and identifying business efficiencies.
Mr. Gates said that those were wrenching decisions for the Pentagon, and that he opposed further reductions in spending growth. 
But President Obama has now called for substantially tightening the Pentagon's budget again, ordering the national security establishment as a whole to slice $400 billion in projected spending through the 2023 fiscal year. The decision was relayed by the White House to Mr. Gates one day before Mr. Obama's speech on Wednesday.
Within hours of the president's address, military planners warned that meeting the reduced spending targets might require cutting the size of the force even beyond current projections as troops come home from Iraq and Afghanistan -- and this would mean, they said, accepting new risks.
But some civilian budget analysts argued that while the president's directive sounded sweeping, the Pentagon could save that much money just by limiting its future spending increases to the rate of inflation projected by the White House.
''This is easily absorbable, and it's not really a cut,'' said Gordon Adams, a professor at American University who oversaw military budgets in the Clinton White House. He said that while the Pentagon would no longer see real growth in spending if Congress approved Mr. Obama's plan, it would be able to retain its current purchasing power.
Until now, Mr. Obama has avoided putting his name behind sweeping proposals to cut military spending for fear that the Republicans would brand him as a typical soft-on-defense Democrat, and he was pleased that his defense secretary, a Republican, went after poor-performing procurement programs and management inefficiencies, plowing much of the savings right back into the military.
And while the president spoke emphatically about his $400 billion target, he left himself some room to maneuver, directing the Pentagon to first conduct a comprehensive review, and only then would he make decisions on spending.
Senior Pentagon officials said Mr. Gates was less concerned about the Pentagon's being called upon once again to help reduce the deficit; he was concerned, they said, about the magnitude of the cuts being sought, and he pressed for a process that would clearly define the available choices, and the consequences and risks that would follow from each option.
''The secretary has been clear that further significant defense cuts cannot be accomplished without reducing force structure and military capability,'' said Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary.
Administration officials pointed out that the $400 billion would not be drawn from the special budget paying for the wars -- and that it would not come just from the Pentagon, either. The cuts will be found across the vast national security apparatus, including the State Department, Homeland Security, Veterans Affairs, the office of the director of national intelligence and the nuclear weapons programs under the Energy Department.
Administration officials stressed that Mr. Gates and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, would be intimately involved in shaping the president's final decision. But a review of such consequence is almost certain to extend beyond Mr. Gates's expected departure this summer and Admiral Mullen's retirement in October.
Personnel costs are the largest part of the Pentagon budget, and Congress has been loath to cut benefits or even raise the costs of military health insurance. So any significant reductions in the Pentagon's future budget growth certainly would impose tough choices on what the military would be able to do.
But Mr. Adams and Todd Harrison, an analyst with the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, said Mr. Obama's plan would not force sharp cuts in the military's purchasing power, as occurred when the cold war ended.
Mr. Adams worked last year with a bipartisan group -- led by former Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, and Alice M. Rivlin, a former budget director in the Clinton administration -- that recommended reducing the Pentagon's projected spending by $900 billion over 10 years. President Obama's deficit-reduction commission called for saving $1 trillion over that period.
Mr. Adams said the $400 billion was less than half of that and about 7 percent of what the administration had projected spending on the military over the next 12 years.
Military spending has grown at an inflation-adjusted average of 7 percent a year in the decade since the terrorist attacks of 2001 -- the rate is nearly 12 percent a year before adjusting for inflation -- including the costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
In passing a compromise 2011 spending bill on Thursday, Congress cut the Pentagon's base budget to $530 billion from the $540 billon that Mr. Gates had said was critical. Mr. Adams said that multiplying that $530 billion by the inflation rates used by White House officials could produce savings of $401.7 billion compared with a previous administration proposal.
But unless the Pentagon reduces some of the duties it had planned to expand, it could still face difficulties. ''They've already done a lot of the easier things in cutting programs,'' Mr. Harrison said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates must look for savings in his final months on the job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); INFLATION (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ROBERT M GATES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



362 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Budget Plan: A Scorecard

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Taking On G.O.P., Obama Unveils Debt Relief Plan'' (front page, April 14):
President Obama's budget proposal is a balanced way to cut the deficit and preserve necessary programs that keep promises and ''win the future.'' Those who argue that tax cuts are vital to grow the economy need to study history. The Bush years, even if you just focus on the pre-Great Recession period, had anemic job growth, especially when compared with the Clinton years.
During the time before the Bush tax cuts, agencies of the federal government were critical in funding research and development and then supporting the building of the infrastructure that became the Internet. 
The government does create jobs, in spite of the tales told by Republicans. I hope that government programs will stimulate private enterprise to build green energy, and we don't have to repeat our past mistakes.
JEANINE MEYER Mount Kisco, N.Y., April 14, 2011
To the Editor:
The president's deficit reduction proposals are balanced and fair, combining meaningful cuts in Pentagon and domestic spending with a relatively small tax increase on the wealthiest citizens. The president's plan would reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over 12 years. Additionally, some tax loopholes would be closed and Medicare costs would be better controlled.
By contrast, the Republican budget plan puts the greatest burden on the middle class, seniors and the poor to deal with the deficit.
In any proposal for Medicare, we need to address the fact that more and more doctors are opting out of the program. If this trend continues, seniors might find the Republican plan to substitute vouchers for Medicare a superficially attractive alternative.
ROBERT R. SALMAN Marlboro, N.J., April 14, 2011
To the Editor:
Your article about President Obama's 12-year deficit reduction plan says that it will cut military spending by $400 billion over that time period. In fact, the figure could turn out to be much lower.
The president has spoken of a $400 billion cut in security spending, a catchall category that includes not just the Pentagon but also the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the State Department's military aid programs and the Department of Energy's nuclear weapons complex. In short, the full brunt of the $400 billion in savings will probably not be borne by the Pentagon alone.
Savings from the Department of Defense are likely to be less than half the level of cuts proposed for domestic discretionary programs.
At a time when military spending, adjusted for inflation, is at its highest levels since World War II, the Pentagon cuts implied in the president's budget plan are too little, too late. I hope that the president's promised review of ''America's missions, capabilities and our role in a changing world'' will yield a more realistic approach to defense that enables him to propose substantially deeper cuts at the Pentagon.
WILLIAM D. HARTUNG New York, April 14, 2011 The writer is director of the Arms and Security Project at the Center for International Policy.
To the Editor: After President Obama described his scenario for bringing down the deficit, Republican lawmakers went on the attack, relying on the same tired strategy -- use fear or mockery, not fact; always say no, never agree, never compromise; always discredit, always belittle; and do whatever else it takes to bring down the president.
PATRICIA A. WELLER Emmitsburg, Md., April 14, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''President Obama, Reinvigorated'' (editorial, April 14):
Let's not interrogate President Obama about his two-year absence. Let's just say, Welcome back.
JAY SILBERMAN Honolulu, April 14, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HISTORY (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); WORLD WAR II (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



363 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Why Goldman Is Not a Simple Culprit in the Financial Crisis Report

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: The real value in the Levin-Cobun Senate report into the financial crisis is exposing the Wall Street game.

 BODY:
The Senate Permanent Investigation Subcommittee's report on the financial crisis is an important document. It is an exhaustive look at certain main aspects of the financial crisis, a report which heavily criticizes Washington Mutual, the now-defunct Office of Thrift Supervision, the credit ratings agencies, Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank.
The focus in the media, as well as in Senator Carl Levin's news conference on the report, has been the criticism shed on Goldman Sachs for betting against clients who bought collateralized debt obligations from it.
But the criticism of Goldman is overwrought. And the focus on Goldman obscures the other important points the report makes about the entire financial industry.
To understand why, you have to read up to page 392 of the report. It is here that you are rewarded with this gem:Morgan Stanley's representative reported to a colleague that when Goldman rejected the firm's request to sell the poorly performing Hudson assets, "I broke my phone." He also sent an e-mail to the head of Goldman's C.D.O. desk saying: "One day I hope I get the real reason why you are doing this to me."The paragraph concerns the $2 billion synthetic C.D.O. Hudson Mezzanine-1. Goldman had created and began marketing the Hudson C.D.O. in October 2006. The firm took the entire $2 billion short position on this C.D.O., meaning that any losses on the residential mortgage-backed securities underlying the C.D.O. would mean a gain for Goldman.
Set against Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley took almost a $1 billion position on the long side, betting that housing prices would remain stable or go up.
The paragraph above details an exchange that occurred in 2008. By that time the Hudson C.D.O. had been downgraded and Morgan Stanley was trying to salvage its billion dollar bet.
Goldman, being Goldman, was serving multiple roles in the C.D.O. Goldman had a small $6 million long position and was also collateral agent. The Morgan Stanley banker here was begging Goldman to use its position as collateral agent to sell some of Hudson's assets in order to stem Morgan's losses, a request Goldman refused.
You can hear the pleading of the poor Morgan banker in this e-mail, and you almost feel sorry for him.
This sad tale exposes the real point of this report. Wall Street went wild in the years leading up to the financial crisis and in the aftermath, the penalties have been few. Morgan Stanley lost about $960 million on Hudson, a bet put on by Morgan Stanley's proprietary trading desk.
As Michael Lewis detailed in "The Big Short," the desk headed by Howard Hubler ended up losing roughly $9 billion. Morgan Stanley itself was almost brought down in the financial crisis in part because of these losses. Mr. Hubler, however, left Morgan Stanley with tens of millions of dollars in pay. He is yet another financial crisis executive who was rewarded for bad decisions.
The Permanent subcommittee uses Goldman's negative bets on the Hudson C.D.O. as well as three others to complain again that Goldman was inherently conflicted, betting against its clients.
Goldman claims that it was not a fiduciary or investment adviser to these clients and instead a market maker, simply making a market where sophisticated clients could fend for themselves.
The fact that the most sophisticated of investors and brokers, Morgan Stanley, was on the other side supports Goldman's view.
You can debate this point, and either way it appears that Goldman was too greedy and risked its reputation in making these trades.
But the Morgan Stanley episode shows that perhaps the Goldman tale is more complex while the story of the financial crisis is simpler.
Goldman was merely fulfilling what was expected by the market while happily profiting at the expense of the entire financial system. But Morgan Stanley was trying to do the same thing -- and simply made a very, very bad trade. It is hard to think that Morgan Stanley here was "duped" by Goldman or could not have asked or demanded that Goldman disclose its positions if it wanted to.
The general conclusion, though, is that these banks could not control themselves.
This is not to say that bashing Goldman has not been useful. As William Cohan has written, this type of rhetoric and Goldman's reputational missteps with the Abacus C.D.O. are likely what got us Dodd-Frank and financial reform.
And indeed this report is a validation that Dodd-Frank may have been worth the effort. This bipartisan Senate report contains 19 recommendations, many of them that are based on implementation of Dodd-Frank's missives.
The report shows bipartisan agreement that there is value in Dodd-Frank.
Goldman Sachs has also responded by adopting compensation policies that attempt to curb excessive risk. Goldman could still do better, but they are ahead of other banks and financial institutions.
But the complexity of the Goldman story and the passage of Dodd-Frank suggest that perhaps Goldman-bashing has outlived its political usefulness, and now it is time to look past Goldman and at the rest of the industry.
This is where the Senate report is most valuable for it is far more critical of the executives at Washington Mutual. The report details how Washington Mutual intentionally made a decision to take more lending risk to juice profits. In 2003, 64 percent of WaMu's bank loans were the safest type of fixed loans.
By 2007, only 23 percent of loans were fixed and the remaining loans were riskier ARMs, subprime and home equity loans. The reason why was obvious. The margin for the bank on a subprime loan was 1.5 percent while the margin for a fixed 30-year was only 0.19 percent. Washington Mutual was chasing yield without regard to risk.
The problem of incentives and excessive risk is the theme of the rest of the report. The credit ratings agencies, which were paid by the banks to rate these C.D.O.'s and other mortgage-backed securities, similarly responded. The report details how bankers at eight banks, including Goldman, Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan, were able to heavily influence ratings and how revenue generation rather than "getting it right" became the mantra at the credit ratings agencies.
The Office of Thrift Supervision similarly comes in for heavy criticism. The regulator led a race to the bottom as the Senate report details how it promulgated "weak standards", had "low expectations" and unduly deferred to management. And in the case of Washington Mutual adopted a soft regulation approach because Washington Mutual paid fees accounting for 15 percent of the O.T.S.'s operating budget. In other words the agency watered down its standard to attract higher revenue, something the Senate report accuses the credit ratings agencies of.
The headlines about the Senate report focused on Goldman, but it would be better said that the report details a tale all too familiar to those who read Bethany McLean's and Joe Nocera's "All the Devils are Here." Essentially Wall Street became too greedy and responded to incentives and the lack of any penalty for taking excessive risk.
And so the real value in this report is exposing the Wall Street game. That is, the animal spirits run wild and often when Wall Street thinks they are quite smart.
But the millions and billions that Wall Street earns are too often simply making money with no consequence or responsibility when things go bad, a product of excessive risk. Tell that to a trader next time he or she brags about the earnings potential. And in this game Goldman Sachs is only one player.

        
Live-Blogging the Senate Hearing on Goldman
        
Goldman E-Mail Cited 'Serious' Profit on Mortgages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (64%); HOME PRICES (63%); CREDIT BUREAUS (57%) "The Big Short"; Carl Levin; Collateralized Debt Obligations (Des);; Deutsche Bank; Financial Crisis; Goldman Sachs; Hudson Mezzanine-1; Michael Lewis; Morgan Stanley; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations; Tom Coburn; Washington Mutual; Levin, Carl; Banking and Financial Institutions; Collateralized Debt Obligations; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS); Office of Thrift Supervision; Senate; Washington Mutual Inc; Deal Professor; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (91%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS); Office of Thrift Supervision; Senate; Washington Mutual Inc

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (91%); TOM COBURN (58%) Levin, Carl

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



364 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: The Pirates of Capitol Hill

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Corporations are roaring. Wall Street is rolling in cash. C.E.O. bonuses are going gangbusters. It's a really good time to be rich!
If you're poor, not so much. The pall of the recession is suffocating. The unemployment rate is still unbearably high. The Census Bureau reported in September that the poverty rate for 2009 was 14.3 percent, higher than it has been since 1994, and the number of uninsured reached a record high. And the Department of Agriculture has reported record ''prevalence of food insecurity.'' 
So in a civil society, which of these groups should be expected to sacrifice a bit for the benefit of the other and the overall health and prosperity of the nation at a time of great uncertainty? The poor, of course. At least that seems to be the Republican answer.
Under the guise of deficit reduction, the Republicans are proposing to not only make the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy permanent, but to reduce their taxes even more -- cutting the top individual rate from 35 percent to 25 percent to ''promote growth and job creation.'' And they plan to pay for this by taking a buzz saw to programs that benefit the poor, elderly and otherwise vulnerable.
But the spurious argument that cutting taxes for the wealthy will somehow stimulate economic growth is not borne out by the data. A look at the year-over-year change in G.D.P. and changes in the historical top marginal tax rates show no such correlation. This isn't about balancing budgets or fiscal discipline or prosperity-for-posterity stewardship. This is open piracy for plutocrats. This is about reshaping the government and economy to benefit the wealthy and powerful at the expense of the poor and powerless.
And it's not that the rich haven't already gotten their tax cuts. According to an analysis released Thursday by the Economic Policy Institute, the average tax rate for the top 1 percent of households dropped by about 20 percent from 1979 to 2007, while the average tax rate for all Americans dropped by just 8 percent over that time. However, in just the period from 1992 to 2007, the tax rate on the top 400 households in America -- those with an average annual income of nearly $350 million -- fell by more than a third. In fact, the tax rate for these supermillionaires is now less than the tax rate for average Americans.
This even though, as the institute pointed out, ''between 1992 and 2007, a time in which income for the average household and top 1 percent grew 13% and 123%, respectively, the income for the top 400 households grew fully 399%.''
As my colleague Catherine Rampell pointed out last month on the Economix blog, the top 1 percent of Americans earn a fifth of the income and control a third of the wealth.
More tax cuts would be gluttony in a time of starvation. That is not America. That is a nation about to be plundered, and a people laid to waste.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Growth and Taxes: The highest marginal tax rates juxtaposed with year-over-year change in G.D.P. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Tax Policy Center.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POVERTY RATES (72%); FOOD SECURITY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CENSUS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



365 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: It Depends on What the Meaning of 'Metaphor' Is

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Poetry for Everyday Life,'' by David Brooks (column, April 12), about the ''pervasiveness of metaphorical thinking'':
Certainly, metaphor is a valuable literary device, and to recognize beauty and creativity in ordinary speech is laudable. But are not David Brooks and the experts he cites using the term ''metaphor'' metaphorically when they appeal to evidence from language to claim that metaphors are at the ''very heart'' of how we think?
To know that ''people use a metaphor every 10 to 25 words'' or that a particular 28-word sentence ''contains four metaphors'' requires being able to identify a metaphor with some precision. Mr. Brooks identifies two metaphors in the sentence he cites, but I cannot figure out what the other two are. 
Is ''recovery'' a metaphor because it refers to economics not health? ''High'' because it describes magnitude of risk not of verticality? ''In'' because it relates to time not space?
It is not immediately apparent which application, or sense, of a word -- if any -- is to be taken as central or prototypical. The most physical? The most cognitively salient? The most common in usage? Is one person's metaphor another's straightforward reference?
Indeed, do words ''refer'' at all, or do they instead provide subjective commentary, a point of view?
JOSEPH DAVIS New York, April 12, 2011
The writer is an associate professor of linguistics at the School of Education at City College, CUNY.
To the Editor:
David Brooks suggests that we ''pause once a month or so to pierce the illusion that we see the world directly.''
Perhaps even better than piercing the illusion would be an effort at direct, precise expression.
George Bernard Shaw provides a wonderful example in one of the music reviews he wrote under the pseudonym Corno Di Bassetto. Metaphors from the language of sight are common in the world of music. We talk about the colors of sounds, or their brightness, but musical tones aren't pink or orange or light or dark.
English seems richer in words for what we see than words for what we hear, and Shaw was confronted with the lack of an exact, non-metaphoric word for what he wanted to say. So he wrote, ''I did with my ears what I do with my eyes when I stare.''
Perhaps once a month or so we should do with our words what we do with our brains when we think.
JOEL RAPHAELSON Chicago, April 12, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks's column is a strong piece of advocacy for the arts in education. ''Metaphors are not rhetorical frills at the edge of how we think,'' he writes, paraphrasing James Geary. ''They are at the very heart of it.''
And this is what educators know about the importance of the standing, speaking, moving, memorizing, hearing and seeing in an arts curriculum: they are not frills, they are at the heart of learning. They are the nation's hope for a strong, confident and competitive future.
In our panic over how badly we've used our resources, how shortsighted we've been, how deeply we've gone into debt, we could cut out our hearts.
BILL IRWIN New York, April 12, 2011
The writer is the actor, performance artist and clown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); POETRY (78%); LINGUISTICS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); MUSIC REVIEWS (69%); MUSIC (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



366 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: One Year Later: There are many lessons from the oil spill, but Congress has yet to learn them

 BODY:
Next week marks the first anniversary of an environmental disaster -- the explosion at BP's Macondo oil well that killed 11 workers, sank the drilling rig, sent 4.9 million barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico and threw thousands of people out of work. Yet Congress is behaving as if nothing at all happened, as if there were no lessons to draw from the richly documented chain of errors and regulatory shortcomings that contributed to the blowout.
Even worse, Congress is pushing in exactly the wrong direction. The House Natural Resources Committee passed three bills this week that would force the administration to accelerate the granting of drilling permits in the gulf and open huge new offshore areas to oil and gas exploration. The compromise 2011 budget makes major cuts in clean energy programs designed to lessen this country's dependence on fossil fuels. 
What makes this particularly discouraging is that, Congress aside, there has been a surprising amount of progress, thanks largely to the hard work of thousands of people and the extraordinary resilience of nature. More than 99 percent of the gulf has been reopened to fishing, jobs are returning, and the Interior Department has tightened oversight. Yet without Congress's help progress will slow and many crucial tasks will remain undone.
Here is a one-year report card and a look ahead:
THE GULF After prematurely claiming victory last year, the Obama administration has since done exhaustive sampling across the gulf and concluded -- along with many independent scientists -- that the oil has now mostly evaporated, been captured or consumed by microbes. One thousand miles of soiled beaches have been reduced to less than 100. Gulf seafood is safe to eat.
Louisiana's wetlands -- vital fish nurseries -- are soiled, and the full extent of the damage to the gulf's ecosystem and its species, especially to fish larvae and the tiny organisms vital to the food chain, may not be known for years. More will be learned when the government issues its preliminary, legally mandated assessment next fall. Until then, and for years after, the watchword is vigilance: the herring population in Prince William Sound did not crash until three years after the Exxon Valdez spill.
RESTORATION The gulf had serious problems before the spill. One-third of Louisiana's marshes, wetlands and barrier islands disappeared over the last century, victims of industrial development and levee-building along the Mississippi River. The administration correctly saw the spill as a chance to help underwrite a huge restoration effort, drawing on the $5 billion to $20 billion in civil and criminal penalties BP is likely to owe. To jump-start the effort, the White House may ask BP to make an advance payment on these penalties. But none of that can happen without Congress. Under current law, the fines would flow mostly to a fund to clean up future spills.
REGULATIONThe spill exposed grievous flaws in federal oversight, including a destructively cozy relationship between the oil industry and its regulators in the Interior Department. The department has since been reorganized and tough new standards applied to all aspects of the drilling process.
Industry and local politicians started pushing for new deep-water drilling permits the moment the drilling moratorium was lifted last fall. The Interior Department has been right to move cautiously. It has also insisted that new operators fully prepare for worst-case scenarios and have access to new equipment capable of stopping a runaway well. Such equipment -- known as a capping stack -- is now available, but has yet to be tested at great depth.
Here again Congress can be helpful. At a minimum, it should codify the Interior Department's regulatory changes so that future administrations do not rescind them. It could go further by making the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration -- the agency responsible for the health of America's coastal waters -- an equal partner in decisions about where oil companies can and cannot drill. Environmental concerns must play a primary role.
INDUSTRY A presidential commission concluded that the Macondo blowout reflected not just BP's carelessness but an industrywide ''culture of complacency.'' Right after the spill, a half-dozen of the biggest companies banded together to develop new systems to contain a blowout. But so far the industry has turned a deaf ear to the commission's modest but sensible suggestion that it establish an independent safety institute to audit industry operations, much as the nuclear industry did after the disaster at Three Mile Island.
BP will pay a high price for its negligence. But this is a rich and powerful industry long accustomed to getting its way.
If Congress chooses to keep enabling the oil barons, rather than demanding that they change their ways, the lessons of the gulf disaster will be wasted. And America's waters will remain at risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); WETLANDS (89%); FISHES (87%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); RIVERS (63%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (85%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



367 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: In Euro Zone, Effects of Trade Collapse Linger

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
AMERICAN exports have fully recovered from the world trade collapse, but those of most other major industrial countries are still well below the levels they reached before the recession.
The Census Bureau reported this week that the United States exported $1.311 trillion in goods in the 12 months through February, exceeding the old record of $1.303 trillion set in the period ending in October 2008, the month after the collapse of Lehman Brothers intensified the credit crisis. 
At the lowest level, in the fall of 2009, 12-month exports were down 19.8 percent from the peak. That was the sharpest decline for American exports since the early 1950s, when there was a reduction of Marshall Plan shipments that had helped to rebuild Europe after World War II.
As is shown in the accompanying charts, American imports fell further than exports in the recession and have yet to recover to peak levels.
Japanese exports have almost recovered to their precrisis peak, at least when measured in dollars, but those of Germany and Britain remain more than 13 percent below their precrisis peaks.
The most impressive recoveries have come in the export-oriented developing nations of Asia. Chinese exports fell along with those of most other countries, but they have recovered much more rapidly. China's exports began setting new records last summer.
China's economy continues to boom, and its imports are rising more rapidly than its exports, which could ease some of the complaints from China's trading partners. In both India and South Korea, however, imports have not recovered as rapidly as exports.
The cases of the most troubled economies in the euro zone demonstrate the extent to which weak economies can affect trade. Countries that are suddenly poorer may or may not be able to continue exports, but their imports are likely to decline sharply.
In Ireland, imports were still falling as this year began, though there are signs they are stabilizing. Greek exports began to recover last summer, but import volumes continue to plunge and are nearly a third lower than they were at the peak in 2008. Despite that decline, however, Greece still exports only about a third as much as it imports. That is a measure of the lack of competitiveness of its economy.
All the charts are based on dollar volumes of trade, which improves comparability among countries but can paint a picture different from the one seen within a country. In Britain, exports measured in pounds are well above previous highs, but volumes measured in dollars are still lower because of the weakness of the pound. German exports, however, are still below record levels when measured in euros, as are those of the other euro zone countries shown. In Japan, where the yen's strength may have hurt Japanese competitiveness, exports measured in yen are off more than 20 percent from record levels.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: For Many Countries, a Rebound in Trade: United States exports of goods hit a record high in the 12 months through February. It was the first new record since the credit crisis and global recession caused trade to plummet. Exports in most other developed countries remain below peak levels, but those of some developing countries have shown strong recoveries. Imports have remained especially weak in troubled European countries. The charts compare 12-month exports and imports for each country to the totals for the 12 months through September 2008, the month Lehman Brothers collapsed. (Source: National reports, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (94%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); CENSUS (73%); JAPANESE YEN (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); BRITISH POUND (60%); WORLD WAR II (54%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); MARSHALL PLAN (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); CHINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); GREECE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



368 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise on Optimistic Outlook

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Friday as higher-than-estimated data on consumer confidence and manufacturing bolstered optimism about the economy.
Merck & Company and DuPont led gains in the Dow Jones industrial average. Charles Schwab, the brokerage firm, rallied 2.1 percent as earnings and sales exceeded analysts' estimates. Google fell 8.3 percent, the most since 2008, after earnings fell short of projections. Bank of America fell 2.4 percent as executives said profitability from lending might come under pressure.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.16 points, or 0.39 percent, to 1,319.68, trimming its weekly loss to 0.6 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 56.68 points, or 0.46 percent, to 12,341.83. The Nasdaq composite index was up 4.43 points, or 0.16 percent, to 2,764.65. 
''The economy continues to expand and the recovery is sustaining,'' said Russ Koesterich, the head of investment strategy for scientific active equities at BlackRock in San Francisco. ''It's not going to be a bad earnings season. It's just that a lot of the good news is already baked in. It's going to be a choppy market with an upward bias.''
Stocks turned higher after the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment rose to 69.6, higher than forecast, from March's 67.5 reading, which was the lowest since November 2009. The gauge was projected to rise to 68.8, according to the median forecast of 66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in April at the fastest rate in a year. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York's general economic index rose to 21.7 from 17.5 in March. Economists projected 17, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
A separate report showed industrial production increased more than forecast in March, led by a rebound in consumer goods manufacturing. Output rose 0.8 percent, the fifth straight gain, the Federal Reserve said.
Merck gained 1.9 percent, to $34.51. The company will split sales for the arthritis drug Remicade with Johnson & Johnson, ending an arbitration dispute that helped drive Merck shares down over the last year.
Charles Schwab advanced 39 cents, to $18.61. The brokerage firm beat estimates, helped by interest revenue and higher fees for managing assets.
Google slumped $47.81, to $530.70. A first-quarter hiring binge and increased marketing led to the biggest jump in operating expenses in three years.
Bank of America fell 31 cents, to $12.82. 'The company reported first-quarter profit excluding some items of 17 cents a share, missing the average analyst estimate by 35 percent.
Higher oil prices and supply disruptions from Japan's March 11 earthquake prompted Thomas Lee, an equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase, to cut his 2011 profit estimate for the S.& P. 500.
Alan M. Gayle, senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond, Va., said: ''The market is unforgiving. Investors have raised their expectations on what constitutes good corporate performance. Yes, the economy is growing. The question is, What is going to convince the market to break into new highs? So far earnings have not been too inspiring.''
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 24/32, to 101 25/32, and the yield fell to 3.41 percent from 3.50 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (94%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (81%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (94%); MRK (NYSE) (94%); SCHW (NYSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (63%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



369 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Up 0.5%, Pushed Mainly by Food and Energy Costs

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The cost of living for Americans rose in March, but the inflationary pressures were mostly limited to food and energy costs, a government report said Friday.
While consumers are feeling the pinch at gas stations and grocery stores, economists emphasized that the March results were in line with the Federal Reserve's view of the economy and should keep the policy-making board from raising its benchmark rate or ending its economic stimulus.
The Labor Department said that the Consumer Price Index rose 0.5 percent in March, matching a 0.5 percent rise in February. Gasoline and food prices accounted for almost three-quarters of the increase, but outside of those two areas, prices remained subdued. In the last 12 months, the index has increased 2.7 percent. 
The core index, which excludes food and energy, rose 0.1 percent in March, compared with a 0.2 percent rise in February. The core index rose 1.2 percent in the last 12 months.
With the rise in food prices and gasoline now averaging $3.82 for a gallon of regular unleaded, inflationary pressures are likely to continue to affect household budgets in the short term, economists said. ''So if you don't eat or drive a car, you are feeling little inflation,'' the chief economist for PNC Financial Services, Stuart Hoffman, said.
Analysts had forecast an increase of 0.5 percent in the broader index and a 0.2 percent rise in the core index.
But underlying pressures as reflected in the core index are low. Mr. Hoffman and other economists said that the index was within the ''comfort zone'' of the Federal Reserve, whose policy-making board meets on April 26. As such, they said they did not expect the Fed to take any action on rates or its quantitative easing program, known as QE2, which is purchasing $600 billion in government securities.
''I think they will say the economy is on firmer footing,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''At the end of the day they will reaffirm they are going to finish QE2.''
But he emphasized that the central bank would remain concerned about inflation expectations of consumers, who could demand higher wages, and businesses, which could raise prices and perhaps cut spending.
The relatively slow increase of prices in the services sector, and the decline in apparel prices, were helping to offset price rises elsewhere, Dan Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company, said in a research note.
Friday's report showed that prices for all types of gasoline rose 5.6 percent in March, after a 4.7 percent increase in February. It was the ninth consecutive increase in the gas index. Food costs increased 0.8 percent in March, after climbing 0.6 percent in February, the biggest jump since September 2008.
Economists have been concerned that higher energy costs will constrain consumer spending, even though they expect oil prices to decline in the second half of the year. Consumers have also been coping with a trend of higher food costs, as bad weather has hit some agricultural commodities, including corn and wheat, while vegetable prices have risen because of cold weather in parts of the South. Cotton prices have also soared.
Paul Ballew, a former Federal Reserve economist and a senior vice president for the Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, said the Fed would be watching commodity prices over the coming months but would most likely remain on the sidelines until 2012 as it gauged the sustainability of the recovery.
''You will start to see them talk about their exit strategy going forward,'' he said.
Higher prices were also in focus in global economies. Higher consumer prices were reported Friday in India, Europe and China. In China, figures showed consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in March, up from February's 4.9 percent. Inflation in the 17-nation euro region increased to an annualized rate of 2.7 percent, from 2.4 percent in February, the European Union's statistics office reported Friday.
Japan was highlighted in another economic report in the United States on Friday. A Federal Reserve report said industrial production grew 0.8 percent in March, above analysts' forecasts of 0.6 percent and compared with a slight 0.1 percent rise in February. The report included a 0.7 percent rise in manufacturing output, especially for durables, and motor vehicles and parts. But in the coming months, the sector could start to feel disruptions in supply caused by the March 11 earthquake in Japan, economists from Goldman Sachs wrote in a research report. In the United States, the report on consumer prices came after one on prices for wholesalers on Thursday. In that report, the Labor Department said higher energy costs accounted for almost all of the increase in the Producer Price Index, which was up 0.7 percent in March, when prices for a barrel of crude oil reached levels not seen since September 2008, partly as turmoil in the Middle East heightened perceptions that supplies could be disrupted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man shopped for an appliance at a Bed Bath & Beyond store in New York. The cost of many items remained unchanged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); FOOD PRICES (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (58%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



370 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Are Subject Of Tough Bill In Georgia

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON; Robbie Brown contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- With Gov. Nathan Deal's acknowledgment that he would sign a tough immigration law, Georgia was thrust on Friday into the center of the national fight over how much control states have in curbing illegal immigration.
The State Legislature this week passed a bill that puts Georgia in a league with Arizona, the first state to empower the local and state police to demand documentation of residency and to detain people they reasonably suspect are in the country illegally. 
On Monday, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld a trial judge's ruling blocking the most contentious parts of Arizona's law, which raised hope among Georgia residents fighting the bill. But the bill went back and forth between chambers until it was passed in the final hours of Georgia's legislative session Thursday.
Lawmakers modified the Georgia bill slightly from Arizona's and softened requirements surrounding use of the federal E-Verify program, which helps employers confirm online whether potential employees can legally work in the United States.
That helped appease at least some of the state's powerful agricultural and business interests, which had lobbied against the bill, and gave Mr. Deal, a Republican who had been noticeably silent on the issue, enough confidence to throw his support behind the measure. He has 40 days to sign the bill but is expected to do so much sooner.
''At the end of the day, rural legislators voted for this bill,'' said Brian Robinson, the governor's spokesman. ''Those legislators most attuned to agriculture and agribusiness came on board.''
The bill helps the governor fulfill a campaign promise and sends a message to Washington, Mr. Robinson said: ''States are picking up the tab for the gigantic cost of a problem that Washington won't fix.''
Groups that fought the bill with more than a dozen public rallies and weeks of lobbying, as well as threats of recall and economic disruption, began discussing a national boycott in anticipation of the governor's signature.
''We have a whole tourism industry in Atlanta that is just people visiting civil rights sites,'' said Xochitl Bervera, a spokeswoman for Somos Georgia, an immigrant rights group that is working on strategy with Turning the Tide, a national group that organized a boycott in Arizona that has cost that state more than $100 million in lost hospitality revenue, according to some estimates.
''This is going to really damage folks who want to do business with the state,'' she said of the Georgia bill. ''It's embarrassing, honestly.''
Because much of the debate centered on people from Mexico and Latin American countries, some Hispanics in the state said the bill would open the door to more harassment and discrimination.
''The targeting of people of color is already happening,'' said Azadeh Shahshahani of the Georgia chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union.
Georgina Perez, 21, of Marietta, came to Georgia from Mexico City when she was 3 and is not in the country legally. The legislation has prompted her to speak publicly about her status as a way to bring attention to the issue.
''The politicians forget that we are human beings,'' she said in a telephone interview. ''We have our houses here in Georgia. We went to school here. We have families here. For them to criminalize us was disgusting.''
The Georgia bill also requires the state Agriculture Department to study creating a guest worker program. Utah, the only other state to pass a law aimed at curbing the population of illegal immigrants, designed a guest worker program aimed at helping businesses keep workers. But it does not supersede federal immigration law.
In all, 30 states have considered anti-immigration legislation, most of which are styled after Arizona's. Many measures died in the legislative sessions. Similar bills have passed at least one chamber of state legislatures in Alabama, Indiana, Oklahoma and South Carolina and remain in committee in several others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); JUDGES (70%); AGRICULTURE (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); DISCRIMINATION (65%); TOURISM (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); POLICE FORCES (56%); APPEALS COURTS (55%)

PERSON: NATHAN DEAL (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



371 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China Agree to a Process to Analyze Risks in Economies Worldwide

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States and China agreed on Friday to participate in a new international process that will review the risks that major economic powers pose to each other and to global growth and development.
The deal, completed at a meeting of finance ministers from the Group of 20 nations, was hailed by several of those ministers as a milestone in efforts to increase China's accountability to the concerns of other nations.
The United States hopes the process will raise international pressure on China to stop increasing exports by keeping its currency artificially cheap. In return, the United States is likely to get a dose of strong international criticism for running up immense deficits to finance unaffordable levels of consumption. 
But the studies, scheduled for presentation to heads of state at a November meeting in France, will include neither carrots nor sticks to encourage changes. A 2006 study of the same issues by the International Monetary Fund sank without a trace.
''The enforcement mechanism?'' asked Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, echoing the question of the day. ''It will be for heads of state and government.''
''I hope certainly,'' she added, ''that there will be good will to take the matter to the end.''
The examination will unfold in several steps. First, the Group of 20 will be winnowed down to a smaller group of countries with particularly unstable economies, either because they are bloated by borrowing or because they are overly dependent on exports.
The winnowing will be based on a comparison of each country's fiscal situation and balance of trade with the norms that would be predicted by economic models. Economists then will seek further evidence of distortions by comparing the present situation with the nation's own history, with other nations at a similar stage of development, and finally with the other members of the Group of 20.
The seven nations with the largest economies will be graded on a tougher curve, reflecting their greater importance to the global economy. That makes it much more likely that those countries, including the United States, China, Japan, Germany, France and Britain, will be selected.
Proponents hope the new round of analysis will find a more receptive audience in part because it follows a financial crisis that was fed by the imbalances among nations.
The United States and other developed economies are eager to revive growth by increasing exports, but they need help from the developing world, where the crisis was not nearly as painful, and there is little enthusiasm for sharing the pain of recovery.
Lael Brainard, the Treasury under secretary for international affairs, said the framework was meant to treat deficits and surpluses as issues of equal concern, placing equal responsibility for change on the developed countries that have borrowed too much and on the developing nations that have relied too much on exports.
The developed nations have pushed the evaluation process in the hope that it will create what Ms. Lagarde described as a ''very mechanical and very objective process'' whose conclusions will be more palatable to developing nations.
The initial discussion of the standards in February proved extremely contentious. The Group of 20 moves only by consensus, and nations including China withheld their approval until the last moment.
This time, by contrast, the work was done before the finance ministers formally convened on Friday. The remaining details were resolved by staff members after a working dinner Thursday night.
A senior Chinese official had grumbled in public earlier this week, describing the standards as a ''political tool'' intended to suppress China's growth. But the Chinese delegation offered no public comments on Friday.
''It was clear that everybody was really ready to move on to the next stage,'' Ms. Brainard said. ''Countries had really recognized that this process was going to move forward.''
China already has won an important victory, however. The evaluations will not consider a nation's reserves of foreign currency, but only the balance of imports and exports, a more narrow measure that does not reflect the accumulation of an imbalance over time.
Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell University, said there was some basis in research for establishing the appropriate level of foreign reserves, but very little consensus on a method for judging trade balances.
He warned that the results therefore would be relatively easy for critics to attack and dismiss as lacking a sound and objective foundation.
''It leaves a very effective opportunity for obfuscation and stonewalling,'' Professor Prasad said. ''And the lack of enforcement mechanism could result in this being just another grounds for squabbling and bickering.''
But Professor Prasad added that there still was value in creating a new shared language for discussing imbalances. That point was echoed by George Osborne, Britain's chancellor of the Exchequer, who said that its influence could well emerge over a longer time frame, and perhaps in unexpected ways.
''These international processes do have a habit,'' Mr. Osborne said, ''of gaining momentum and a will of their own once they've started.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CONSUMPTION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



372 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Push in States To Deregulate Environment

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
Weeks after he was sworn in as governor of Maine, Paul LePage, a Tea Party favorite, announced a 63-point plan to cut environmental regulations, including opening three million acres of the North Woods for development and suspending a law meant to monitor toxic chemicals that could be found in children's products.
Another Tea Party ally, Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, has proposed eliminating millions of dollars in annual outlays for land conservation as well as cutting to $17 million the $50 million allocated in last year's budget for the restoration of the dwindling Everglades. 
And in North Carolina, where Republicans won control of both houses of the Legislature for the first time in 140 years, leaders recently proposed a budget that would cut operating funds to the state's Department of Environment and Natural Resources by 22 percent.
In the past month, the nation's focus has been on the budget battle in Washington, where Republicans in Congress aligned with the Tea Party have fought hard for rollbacks to the Environmental Protection Agency, clean air and water regulations, renewable energy and other conservation programs.
But similar efforts to make historically large cuts to environmental programs are also in play at the state level as legislatures and governors take aim at conservation and regulations they see as too burdensome to business interests.
Governor LePage summed up the animus while defending his program in a radio address. ''Maine's working families and small businesses are endangered,'' he said. ''It is time we start defending the interests of those who want to work and invest in Maine with the same vigor that we defend tree frogs and Canadian lynx.''
When Republicans wrested control across the country last November, they made clear that reducing all government was important, but that cutting environmental regulations was a particular priority.
Almost all state environmental budgets have been in decline since the start of the recession, said R. Steven Brown, executive director of the Environmental Council of the States, which works with environmental agencies across the country. What has changed this budget season is the scope and ambition of the proposed cuts and the plans to dismantle the regulatory systems, say advocates who are already battle-hardened.
''Historically, we've taken pride in being a leader in environmental quality in the Southeast,'' said Molly Diggins of North Carolina, director of the state chapter of the Sierra Club. ''But there is now such fervor to reduce the size of the environmental agency. The atmosphere is the most vitriolic it's ever been.''
David Guest, the managing attorney for the Florida office of Earthjustice, a national environmental law firm, said Governor Scott's budget was ''the most radical anti-environmental budget'' he had seen in two decades of environmental work. Comparing Mr. Scott's proposed changes with those of Florida's previous Republican governors, including Jeb Bush, he called them ''a whole new world.''
The strategies have been similar across the affected states: cut budgets and personnel at regulatory agencies, prevent the issuing of new regulations, roll back land conservation and, if possible, eliminate planning boards that monitor, restrict or permit building development.
In New Jersey, for example, Gov. Chris Christie, another favorite among Tea Party loyalists, has said the Highlands Water Protection and Planning Act, which preserves more than 800,000 acres of open land that supplies drinking water to more than half of New Jersey's residents, is an infringement on property rights. Mr. Christie has moved to shift power from planning boards and government agencies to administrative judges, political appointees who, environmentalists say, tend to rule more often in favor of developers' interests.
In Florida, Governor Scott has asked to cut staff members to 40 from 358 at the Department of Community Affairs, which regulates land use and was created to be a control on unchecked urban sprawl.
Lane Wright, a spokesman for Governor Scott, said the cuts would enable businesses to grow again in Florida. The governor ''does care about the environment,'' Mr. Wright said, ''but feels it is more important to get people back to work.''
In the first round of federal budget fights, Republicans appear to have won some of what they sought: $1.6 billion in cuts from the E.P.A. and $49 million from programs related to climate change. But they fell short in other areas.
Daniel J. Weiss, director of climate strategy at the Center for American Progress, a liberal Washington policy group, said that by his calculation the Republicans had sought nearly $10 billion in cuts related to efficiency and renewable energy but got less than $3.7 billion. ''The Democrats successfully defended investments in clean energy,'' Mr. Weiss said.
The eventual outcome at the state level is much less clear. Florida and North Carolina's budget battles are in the early stages. In New Jersey, where Governor Christie has been in office since 2010, he has held up stricter drinking water standards, saying he is waiting for further research by the E.P.A.
And yet, in Maine, Governor LePage's agenda has engendered such an angry response that the newly elected Republican majority in the State Legislature seems to be backpedaling from many of its strongest components.
Mr. LePage's proposal to open the woodlands has not yet been introduced as a bill. And this month the Legislature made a point of enacting a ban on a chemical detected in sippy cups. All but three legislators voted for it. (Mr. LePage has questioned whether the science is strong enough to support such a ban.)
Adrienne Bennett, the governor's press secretary, acknowledged that Mr. LePage had not gotten everything he wanted, but pointed to some victories. The governor just signed a law that will reduce restrictions for building on sand dunes, and his proposal to provide incentives to businesses to police themselves on a variety of environmental regulations is still in the Legislature.
'''We will continue to move forward,'' Ms. Bennett said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fall on Mount Megunticook in Maine. Gov. Paul LePage wants three million acres of North Woods forests opened to development. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT F. BUKATY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Mr. LePage said workers' and businesses' interests should be defended ''with the same vigor that we defend tree frogs.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAT WELLENBACH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The effort to restore the Everglades is the target of a cut sought by Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, who wants the money allocated last year for that purpose reduced to $17 million from $50 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. PAT CARTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 PHELAN M. EBENHACK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CHILDREN (77%); LAWYERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (73%); FAMILY (72%); WILD CATS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: PAUL LEPAGE (90%); RICK SCOTT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



373 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: A Bach's Lost Passion, From Kiev to New York

BYLINE: By STEVE SMITH

 BODY:
When a long-lost manuscript by a major composer turns up, expectations can be blown out of proportion. Any scramble to ''realize'' a freshly found sliver from Mozart's quill -- which is to say, to bring it to exploitable condition -- will almost certainly exceed what is ultimately heard. 
Occasionally, though, real discoveries are to be made. Such was the case with Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, Johann Sebastian's second son, after a trove of manuscripts originally entrusted to the library of the Berlin Sing-Akademie and lost after World War II was found in Kiev in 1999. Those recovered texts now have factored into a complete critical edition of C. P. E. Bach's work, including a 1769 Passion According to St. Matthew that received its American premiere on Thursday evening at the Church of St. Luke in the Fields, in Greenwich Village.
Comparisons of this passion, the first prepared by C. P. E. Bach for his post as music director in Hamburg, with the better-known St. Matthew Passion of J. S. Bach (1727) are unfair but also instructive. Not an entirely original work but a pastiche borrowing from multiple sources, C. P. E. Bach's St. Matthew Passion takes J. S. Bach's works in the genre as its model: passages of recitative for an Evangelist, Jesus, Judas, Pilate and others are framed by potent arias, duets and choruses.
At just over 90 minutes, the C. P. E. Bach passion is comparatively economical, starting with Christ's betrayal and ending at his death. The 1769 work reflects a more liberal theology, dealing less with man's omnipresent sin than with Christ's abiding humanity. And on the whole, C. P. E. Bach's recitative is less demanding than was his father's.
Yet, despite its relative modesty, C. P. E. Bach's passion is filled with memorable effects: tremulous strings evoking mortal terror; exchanges among low and high string sections of rumbling thunder and flashing lightning; a finale enhanced with robust horns and thumping timpani. David Shuler, the St. Luke's music director, drew stylish playing from a period-instrument ensemble grounded by Dongsok Shin's organ and David Bakamjian's cello.
Steven Caldicott Wilson, a tenor, was a powerful, polished and moving Evangelist; the bass Michael Reder, a sonorous and dignified Jesus. Both as an ensemble and as individual soloists, the members of the Choir of St. Luke in the Fields were consistently admirable, with particularly potent contributions from two basses, Tim Krol and Phillip Cheah.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: St. Matthew Passion: Phillip Cheah (second vocalist from right), in a solo in the performance Thursday by the choir of St. Luke in the Fields. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIE DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); RELIGION (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (87%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); WORLD WAR II (55%); LIBERALISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); UKRAINE (87%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



374 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Company to Compensate Evacuees in Japan

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and ANDREW POLLACK; Moshe Komata and Kantaro Suzuki contributed reporting.

 BODY:
TOKYO -- The Tokyo Electric Power Company announced plans on Friday to distribute $600 million in initial payments to 50,000 people evacuated because of the accident at its Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, as technicians continued to struggle to repair cooling and electrical systems at the damaged reactors.
Masataka Shimizu, the company's president, said individuals would receive about $9,000 and larger households would receive about $12,000. Only people who live within a radius of 19 miles of the damaged power plant, who were initially evacuated, will be eligible for the payments. 
The government on Monday ordered the evacuation in the coming month of people in five additional communities that lie farther from the stricken power plant but received higher levels of radiation than elsewhere because of wind and rain patterns. Once residents of these communities have been certified by the government as also qualifying as victims of a nuclear disaster, the company will make the same payments to them, Mr. Shimizu said. Tokyo Electric Power Company officials had no immediate data on how many people might qualify from these communities.
The government said the company acted after a request from Banri Kaieda, the minister of economy, trade and industry. The utility's full liability for the nuclear accident has not been established and will depend heavily on whether the government characterizes the earthquake and tsunami on March 11 as an exceptional event that could not have been readily anticipated.
No decision has been made on possible compensation to farmers and fishermen who may have lost their livelihoods at least temporarily because of the nuclear accident.
Repair efforts continued slowly at the Fukushima Daiichi plant. An announcement late Thursday of sharply rising temperatures at the base of Reactor No. 3 had provoked brief concern, but regulators said Friday morning that the readings appeared to have come from a malfunctioning thermometer.
In another development, the International Atomic Energy Agency said that Japan had reported that 28 of the approximately 300 workers trying to stabilize the nuclear plant had received high radiation doses. The 28 workers have accumulated doses of more than 100 millisieverts, the agency said, though none have received a dose of more than 250 millisieverts.
Japan's Health Ministry said on March 15 that it was raising the legal limit on the amount of radiation to which each worker could be exposed to 250 millisieverts from 100 millisieverts. That is five times the maximum exposure permitted for American nuclear plant workers.
In a sign of a return to normality on Friday, Tokyo Disneyland reopened with limited hours, after closing a month ago to conduct repairs and conserve electricity. Throngs of people showed up outside the amusement park's gates before opening time, vying to be among the first to return.
The United States government, saying the situation at Fukushima Daiichi has become less perilous, lifted its travel warning for Tokyo and said it would allow dependents of government employees to return to Japan.
The travel alert issued by the State Department on Thursday said that although the situation at the nuclear plant ''remains serious and dynamic,'' the health risks in areas outside the 50-mile evacuation zone recommended by the American government ''are low and do not pose significant risks to U.S. citizens.'' It said that even in the event of an unexpected disruption at the plant, harmful exposures to people beyond 50 miles were ''highly unlikely.''
The State Department said the new policy was based on the assessment of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Energy Department and the unanimous opinion of American scientific experts in Japan. It came three days before Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton was scheduled to visit Japan in what is described as a show of support for the Japanese people.
The State Department had authorized the voluntary departure of dependents of government employees in Tokyo and some other areas on March 16 and had advised American citizens to defer nonessential travel to the Tokyo area and to northeastern Japan, where the nuclear plant is located.
In its new alert, the State Department said the situation at the plant ''is dramatically different today than it was on March 16, when we saw significant ongoing releases of radioactivity, the loss of effective means to cool the reactor cores and spent fuel, the absence of outside power or fresh water supply for emergency management, and considerable uncertainty about the condition of the site.''
Now, it said, the efforts to cool the reactors and spent fuel were ''ongoing and successful,'' power and water were partly or fully restored and planning had begun to control radioactive contamination and mitigate future dangers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); TSUNAMIS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); THERMAL SENSORS (63%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (60%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (52%)

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (95%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (95%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



375 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Mitt! Mitt! Mitt!

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
This was the week we've been waiting for! Decades into the future, you will be able to tell your grandchildren where you were when Mitt Romney announced that he had formed a presidential exploratory committee.
Who knew he needed to explore? He said he was running on his Christmas card, for Lord's sake.
My job today is to give you a run-through of every book Mitt Romney has ever written. Fortunately, there are only two: ''Turnaround,'' which is about his stint as the leader of the troubled 2002 Salt Lake City Olympic Games, and ''No Apology,'' his campaign tome, which used to be subtitled ''The Case for American Greatness'' but is now ''Believe in America.'' 
Perhaps three. When the new paperback edition of ''No Apology'' came out in February, early readers noted that not only had Romney added a new subtitle but also a new preface, ranting about the founders-hating big spenders who are now running the country. And, most notably, he had also changed some critical chunks of the original to make the text more Tea Party-friendly.
For instance, paperback Romney has now noticed that the Massachusetts health insurance law that he championed as governor does have some flaws, all of which are because of anti-freedom provisions that the Democrats in the State Legislature put in. Also, the stimulus was way, way worse than he originally thought.
We all know that Mitt has a habit of, um, mutating to the political winds. So even in its earlier incarnation, the book had a decidedly uneven tone. ''Despite my affiliation with the Republican Party, I don't think of myself as highly partisan,'' Moderate Mitt wrote toward the end. This comes after 300 pages of unrelenting attacks on Barack Obama and every member of his party since Andrew Jackson. He blames Bill Clinton for everything from cutting military spending to presiding over an administration during which ''birth to teenage mothers rose to their highest level in decades.'' I'm sure this week's Romney does not regard that as a partisan statement even though teenage birth rates actually fell spectacularly during that exact period.
The book is heavy into policy and rather sparse on personal history, except for the parts that relate to his dad being a successful businessman and Mitt himself being an entrepreneurial hero along the deal-making, business-closing, job-slashing private equity line. Romney's earlier book, ''Turnaround,'' had some great stories about his Mormon ancestors, including a great-grandmother who single-handedly drove her children to Mexico in a covered wagon during the Indian wars. ''At one point along the way, she came across freshly slaughtered U.S. Cavalry horses. She paused only long enough to pry the shoes from the wasted horses, re-shod her own wagon horses, and journey on,'' he wrote. Truly, ''No Apology'' could use a whole lot more of Hannah Romney and a whole lot less about the causes of the decline of the Ottoman Empire.
Also, there is not a single mention in ''No Apology'' of the fact that Romney once drove to Canada with the family Irish setter strapped to the roof of the car. I regard this as a critical oversight, although perhaps it was Seamus that Romney was thinking of when he chose his title.
But, according to the book, ''No Apology'' refers to Romney's objections to President Obama's alleged habit of going around the world, asking other countries to forgive America for its faults. This Obama apologizing tour is an article of Tea Party faith, but one that PolitiFact analyzed a while back and found it to be false. (''Yes, there is criticism in some of his speeches, but it's typically leavened by praise for the United States and its ideals.'')
Anybody can make a mistake, but it's a bad sign when one of your errors is your title.
Of all the awful books by presidential candidates I have read this year, ''No Apology'' was the hardest to get through. To be fair, Romney does write a lot about the issues, but in a way that makes you feel as if you're trapped at a school assembly where a long-winded donor is telling you what life is all about. (''If I may return to my engine analogy from earlier in this chapter: Our economy is powered by two pistons ...'')
''Turnaround'' is a much easier book to read, even though it requires a pretty keen interest in how the Salt Lake City Olympics planners saved the day after Mitt took over in 1999. I was particularly fascinated by Romney's insistent contention that he is a fun guy. (''I love jokes, and I love laughing.'') There is not much evidence of actual humor, although Romney says that when he visited the Clinton White House, he prankishly protested being given a visitor's badge that had a red A on it, saying, ''I'm not the one that cheated on my wife.''
Maybe you had to be there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); OLYMPICS (70%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (65%); INSURANCE LAW (65%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (61%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%); INSURANCE (51%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); HEALTH CARE LAW (51%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



376 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Breaking Through on Trade: Both parties need to put parochial interests aside and approve these deals

 BODY:
After two years of dithering, it is good to see the Obama administration championing freer trade. Last week, the United States and Colombia announced a deal that will improve, and we hope finally win passage of, a 2006 trade agreement signed during the Bush administration. The amended version will strengthen worker protections in Colombia while boosting American exports. 
Republicans and Democrats in Congress must now overcome their parochial interests and approve the entire set of trade initiatives snagged on Capitol Hill. That includes an amended agreement with South Korea, first signed in 2007, and programs to grant preferential access to imports from Andean countries and to help American workers who lose their jobs because of competition with imported goods. Those lapsed in February.
The agreements with Colombia and South Korea would cement relations with key allies and slash tariffs on a range of American agricultural and industrial goods. The Andean preferences would help to combat the cocaine trade by creating jobs in other export industries. These deals (and another with Panama) have languished for years mainly because of Democrats' -- more to the point, their union backers' -- lack of enthusiasm for free trade.
President Obama seemed to have broken through on South Korea in December, after his aides renegotiated the agreement with Seoul to improve the terms for American carmakers. Then Republicans, who claim to champion trade, refused to pass the agreement or extend assistance for workers until the administration moved to gain approval of the Colombia deal.
Democrats have long opposed that agreement, arguing that Colombia's labor laws are too weak and the government has not done enough to stop attacks against members of labor unions. And they refused to renew the Andean preferences unless the trade adjustment assistance was extended, too.
The new deal with Colombia should cut this Gordian knot. Bogota has committed to restore land to people displaced by conflict, increase state protection of union members and increase prison sentences for those convicted of killing them. It will change its criminal code to penalize with up to five years in prison anybody who interferes with workers' rights to organize and bargain collectively.
The administration also expects that Panama will soon satisfy President Obama's conditions for moving forward on its 2007 trade agreement. Those include passing new laws to protect labor rights and agreeing to international standards to combat cross-border tax evasion.
Some Democrats may never be persuadable. Representative Sander Levin of Michigan and Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio have made clear their opposition to the amended Colombia deal. But these agreements are good for the American economy and good for national security. Congress should waste no more time and approve them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX FRAUD (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); SENTENCING (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (64%); DISPLACED PERSONS (62%); HOMICIDE (61%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (61%); COCAINE (53%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SHERROD BROWN (58%); SANDER M LEVIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%) COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011



377 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; TOP DOWN; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: The 3 Biggest Tax Breaks -- and What They Cost Us

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
If there is one big-ticket budget item on which Democrats and Republicans should be able to find common ground, it's tax breaks. Each of the various bipartisan deficit panels has called for a big reduction, saying such breaks -- exemptions, deductions, credits and other loopholes -- are inefficient and unaffordable. All told, they cost the federal government about $1.2 trillion in lost revenue last year. As it happens, the budget deficit was $1.3 trillion. 
Why else is getting rid of tax breaks a good idea? For one, economists say many of them slow growth by forcing individuals and businesses to waste time complying with the tax code. A tax code with lower rates and fewer loopholes would almost surely be more efficient. Meanwhile, from a political perspective, some Republicans who oppose just about any tax increase think cutting tax breaks is an acceptable way for the government to refill its coffers.
And yet these loopholes have become bigger in the last 20 years, mostly because tax breaks for individuals have grown. Business tax breaks, as a share of the economy, have not changed much but, at roughly $150 billion a year, remain significant.
To the left are details on the three largest permanent tax breaks -- each of which has serious flaws. If Washington is finally going to get serious about the country's long-term fiscal problems, there is no better place to start.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS (DATA SOURCE: 1. JOINT COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
2. TAX POLICY CENTER
 3. OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX INCREASES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



378 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: The Wall of Worry Has Never Looked So High

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE stock market has been climbing a wall of worry -- that's an old Wall Street adage, and it has certainly rung true lately. Calamities abound and there have been setbacks, but the market has been climbing anyway.
Richard Bernstein, who was chief investment strategist for Merrill Lynch until April 2009, says he's never seen anything quite like it. ''This cycle is the biggest wall of worry I have ever seen or will ever see in my entire career,'' he said last week, in the offices of the investment advisory firm he now runs in Manhattan.
The stock market's 80 percent rise since March 2009 has been one of the greatest bull runs in history, he says, and while the American economy has its problems, it is clearly strengthening and corporate profits are rising. Yet anxiety about the American market is profound, he says, and many investors have been avoiding American stocks, pouring money into emerging market stocks and bonds instead. That makes no sense to Mr. Bernstein, a longtime bear who turned resolutely bullish in July 2009. 
''It seems no one wants to believe in the stock market in the United States,'' he said. ''People don't accept that the American economy may actually be strengthening. And they go for emerging markets, which are wildly overpriced. What in the world is going on here?''
Even now, he says, many American investors are disillusioned. There has been too much pain from the financial crisis, a severe bear market and lingering recession. Traders are unusually skittish, and, as I wrote recently, markets globally have become increasingly synchronized and volatile, with ''risk on, risk off'' trades overwhelming all other approaches.
Investors are certainly nervous. But is this a very steep wall of worry -- a classic barrier that will be surmounted as the bull market continues? Or is it something else -- a vast universe of pain that will only get worse as a bear market takes hold? David A. Rosenberg, formerly chief economist at Merrill Lynch, takes the bleaker view.
Now based in Toronto with Gluskin, Sheff, he agrees that equities in many emerging markets are overpriced. Still ferociously bearish, Mr. Rosenberg parts with his erstwhile colleague in much of the rest of his analysis. ''I have great respect for Rich Bernstein, and I tip my hat to him for making that early bullish call,'' Mr. Rosenberg said. ''But I think that people who are still bullish right now will be in for a very big surprise.''
In a telephone conversation on Wednesday evening, Mr. Rosenberg said that the boom in the American stock market was largely caused by the ''radically'' expansionary monetary policy of the Federal Reserve. The Fed's current program of ''quantitative easing'' -- its second bout of purchases of Treasuries and other securities, known as QE2 -- is scheduled to end in June.
''There's no political support'' for an extension, he said, but if the Fed ends its asset purchases, ''it will be a very big deal -- a bad one -- for the equity markets.'' Furthermore, budget cutting at the state and local level is sucking air out of the economy, and that's likely to be accompanied by federal budget cuts, he said, with Republicans in Congress vying with President Obama to reverse the explosive growth in government debt over the last several years.
Mr. Rosenberg ticks off other ''pernicious headwinds,'' including geopolitical risk in the Middle East and North Africa, ''acute risk of sovereign debt default'' in Europe, surging oil and food prices, the battered housing market and a very tepid economic recovery ''that has needed to be propped up by the Fed. ''
While Mr. Rosenberg's relentless bearishness is a minority view, many economists and strategists on Wall Street agree with aspects of it. A survey by Blue Chip Economic Indicators issued on April 10 found that economists on average had downgraded their estimates for real G.D.P. growth in the United States in 2011 to 2.9 percent, down from 3.1 percent only one month earlier. At the moment, they project growth of 3.2 percent for 2012. These are low numbers for an economy rebounding from a recession.
On the other hand, the consensus among Wall Street strategists is bullish: the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index will approach 1,500 within 12 months, according to a Bloomberg News analysis of price estimates for the index's underlying components. That would be about a 14 percent increase over its current level.
Corporate profits are buttressing these projections. The earnings season for the first quarter began last week, and Michael Thompson, an S.& P. managing director, says it will probably be the sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings growth for S.& P. 500 companies. Wall Street analysts expect a 12.2 percent increase over the same quarter in 2010, according to S.& P.'s Capital IQ unit. Mr. Thompson said he was ''guardedly optimistic,'' despite rising energy prices.
The richer price of oil over the last several months -- it has declined a bit since April 8 -- has actually had a positive effect on corporate earnings so far, said Kevin Gardiner, head of global investment strategy for Barclays Wealth. That's because energy companies, which have profited from the increase, account for a large share of major stock market indexes, while heavy users of energy are relatively small components.
Of course, if energy prices were to seriously crimp consumer spending -- and derail the economic recovery -- the implications would be very serious, Mr. Thompson said, but that isn't happening so far. In fact, he said, ''consumer spending is actually very strong.'' Despite high unemployment in the United States, consumer discretionary companies are doing quite well, suggesting that spending by individuals is helping to propel a ''self-sustaining'' recovery, he said.
FOR his part, Mr. Bernstein readily concedes that on an ''absolute'' basis, the picture is hardly perfect, but he says the critical question for the markets is whether the trend is positive or negative. He's convinced that prospects for American companies are quite bright, and expects that investors will grudgingly climb that wall of worry, moving the markets higher. He advises embracing risk in the American market in a big way. For a global mutual fund he runs for Eaton Vance, he is placing large bets on small-cap growth stocks in the United States.
''They'll give you the best return when the market is going up,'' he said. ''And I think it's going to go up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Bernstein, an investment adviser, remains optimistic despite investors' fears. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); MONETARY POLICY (60%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GLUSKIN SHEFF & ASSOCIATES INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (TSX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



379 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Cartel Violence Complicates Tick Eradication Plan

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR. 
jaguilar@texastribune.org

 BODY:
An unexpected casualty of the drug-cartel-fueled lawlessness in Mexico: the cattle industry.
At a temporary inspection site in the industrial sector of Laredo, home to the country's largest inland port, the lowing of cows has been heard not far from the purring of the tractor-trailers that haul millions of dollars worth of goods from Mexico each day. For about the last year, Mexican cattle have been examined here before being cleared for shipment to the rest of Texas and beyond -- part of an effort to eradicate a fever tick infestation that has plagued ranchers along the border for more than a century.
The tick carries an anemia-causing parasite that preys on cattle blood cells and spreads bovine babesiosis, which causes fever, paralysis and often leads to death if left untreated. Until last year, the inspections took place in Mexico, and ticked cattle were kept from the United States. But a ruthless battle between the Gulf and Los Zetas cartels in the northern Mexican state of Tamaulipas forced those inspection sites to close in March 2010. 
''It's become too dangerous for the veterinarians to conduct their inspections on the cattle that are going to be imported into Texas from Mexico,'' said Roland Garcia, a Texas Ranger commissioned by the Department of Public Safety and the Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association. ''That's why these temporary pens in Laredo and Pharr have been established. I don't know how long 'temporary' could be. It depends on how things settle out in Mexico.''
The inspection site is not the only modification being made because of cartel violence.
The United States government takes the lead on regulating cattle in the ''buffer,'' or permanent quarantine, zone, where fever ticks thrive. It stretches more than 500 miles across the Texas border from Del Rio to Brownsville, an area of about 550,000 acres. Temporary zones are also established if an outbreak spreads beyond that. Ed Bowers, the United States Department of Agriculture's director of field operations for the Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program, said the zone is currently 1.5 million acres, including a large swath of Dimmit and Starr counties.
Mr. Bowers and his 97-member staff compose the U.S.D.A.'s fever tick riders, who patrol hundreds of miles of Texas border on horseback searching for infested stray Mexican cattle. Recent floods that have destroyed natural barriers and man-made fences have enabled their migration past the border, potentially aiding in the spread of the tick. And the tick riders have been forced to adjust their routes farther away from the border.
''We don't do our patrol like we did a year ago, which was visible to Mexico and riding right down the riverbank,'' Mr. Bowers said. ''We don't make a target of ourselves, but we still have to patrol that permanent quarantine zone and make sure there aren't any Mexican strays.''
The economic consequences of an extended outbreak in Texas could be dire. An infestation outside the current quarantine zones -- even one considered relatively small by industry experts -- would still cost $123 million in the first year alone, according to a study conducted in 2010 by the Agricultural & Food Policy Center at Texas A&M University. An outbreak spreading to the historic range that includes Texas, a portion of California and 12 Southern states east to Florida and north to Virginia would cost about $1.2 billion in the first year, according to the study.
Texas would have the most to lose, as it currently has more than 13.3 million head of cattle, including 5.14 million beef cows, representing 16.4 percent of the nation's total. The value of the livestock is about $11.7 billion. Todd Staples, the Texas commissioner of agriculture, estimates that Texas imported about 512,000 feeder cattle from Mexico in 2010, or about half of the 1.2 million the country imported..
The economic potential of the industry explains the activity level at the inspection site in Laredo. Dr. Beall Barbee, the port veterinarian with the U.S.D.A.'s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, and his crew of six go through painstaking procedures to inspect every head of cattle imported from Mexico. A herd of six to eight feeder cattle, each weighing between 300 and 500 pounds, is corralled into a pen, and their heads, ears, bellies, rears and topsides are manually inspected. Then, one by one, they are forced into a dipping vat of pesticide, herded in to a pen to dry and shipped off to their buyers.
''It's poisonous enough that you don't want any on you,'' Dr. Barbee said last week of the pesticide. ''But there's not a lot to the process. We just need to make sure they don't have any ticks on them. The goal is not to find any, and some days we don't.''
Adding to the safety concerns are the looming budget woes in Austin and Washington, which could affect the program.
''You know how Washington is,'' Mr. Bowers said. ''Even with the best minds hoping, that doesn't mean that Congress might not cut,'' he said. ''But I would say that all indications are that they would support us as much as they could.''
If financing levels remain close to the current $13 million allocated annually for the project, that should allow what Mr. Bowers characterizes as the continued success of the program to proceed with release of almost two-thirds of the temporary zone.
His confidence is not matched in Austin. As budget writers there grapple with a projected shortfall that could exceed $25 billion, the state's contribution to the fever tick eradication efforts could be scaled back significantly. The Texas Animal Health Commission plays a lesser role, but it assists the U.S.D.A. on the riverbanks and throughout the infested areas in South Texas. Preliminary budget recommendations show the agency facing a cut of about $2.6 million of its current budget, but the financing mechanism is changing from entirely general-revenue funds to a partial fee-based model, which puts the onus on the agency to sustain its own financing.
''We took the position that we weren't going to question the politics or the budgetary considerations and just try and solve the problem,'' said Dr. Dee Ellis, the state veterinarian. ''If we are unsuccessful, if we had to accept the proposed budget cuts of about 50 percent of our agency, it would absolutely impact the fever tick program.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cattle from Mexico are currently being inspected for fever ticks at a temporary station in Laredo before they are allowed farther into the United States. A single tick, below, recently caused an entire herd of 109 cattle to be returned to Mexico. (A23A)
 Federal inspectors checked Mexican cattle for fever ticks before admitting them into the country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALEB BRYANT MILLER/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) (A23B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); CARTELS (90%); TICK BORNE DISEASES (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANIMAL QUARANTINE (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); ANEMIA (69%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAREDO, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



380 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Broker Fee Rules Take Effect

BYLINE: By MARYANN HAGGERTY

 BODY:
THERE have been changes in federal rules covering how mortgage brokers are paid, and while legal challenges to them persist, the question now is how the new system will work in practice.
Regulators and consumer advocates say borrowers are bound to benefit. Broker trade groups say their industry will shrivel and consumer costs will go up.
Mortgage brokers are middlemen who work with multiple lenders to arrange home loans for customers. They say they add value by helping borrowers find the best deal; their detractors say they add costs that have been hidden in complex fees. 
The business has contracted significantly in the last five years. In 2005, during the real estate boom, brokers accounted for 31 percent of mortgages originated, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication. Last year it was just 11 percent, and the market was only half as big.
Brokers used to be compensated by a mix of borrower-paid origination fees and lender-paid fees. The most controversial was a ''yield spread premium,'' paid by lenders when a broker placed a borrower in a loan that charged higher interest than other loans. The justification was that higher rates allowed lower upfront closing costs. The criticism was that the premiums were an incentive to push expensive loans and that the system contributed to a flood of risky loans and thus to the financial crisis.
In response, the Federal Reserve put out rules that prohibit loan originators from being paid by both the borrower and lender on the same deal, and also barring commissions based on anything other than loan size. The rules were set to take effect April 1; two trade groups sued, delaying enactment a few days before a federal appeals court allowed it. Both the National Association of Mortgage Brokers and the National Association of Independent Housing Professionals say they will keep pressing their lawsuits.
On the front line, the problem is that there has been ''no clear guidance'' on exactly how to arrange commission structures for employees who originate loans, said Melissa Cohn, the president of the Manhattan Mortgage Company, a loan brokerage firm.
''To be honest with you,'' she said, ''in some cases it's going to create higher-priced mortgages.'' Although the spirit of the law is to protect borrowers, she added, ''the reality of it is it's just going to cause more confusion.''
Mike Anderson, the director of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers, speaking just two days after the rules went into effect, said: ''It's already happening. Rates have already gone up; fees have gone up.'' Mr. Anderson, who is also a broker in New Orleans, cited situations in which brokers could no longer cut fees to make deals go through, and others in which banks were raising charges. ''The rules basically pick the winners and losers,'' he said, with the winners being the big banks. ''The losers are the small businesses.''
The Facebook page of the National Association of Independent Housing Professionals is full of complaints from what appear to be mortgage brokers saying the rules will hurt their business, and recounting how unnamed lenders have raised prices.
Despite industry opposition, the change is a victory for borrowers, according to representatives of the Center for Responsible Lending, an advocacy group long critical of the yield-spread premium system. Borrowers ''should be getting more honest services from the originator they're working with,'' said Kathleen E. Keest, a senior policy counsel, ''because that originator is no longer going to have a conflict of interest if they put a borrower in a loan with a higher interest rate or riskier terms.''
''If people were saying that the way things worked, worked well,'' she added, ''that's one thing, but it's very clear the way things worked before didn't work for anybody. The notion we need to have the same rules is denying what happened. It's denying that the way the market was working was disastrous for everybody.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); LOAN BROKERS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); LITIGATION (63%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: MANHATTAN MORTGAGE CO (63%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (63%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J ANDERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



381 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (HBO) GAME OF THRONES A cast of seemingly hundreds -- kings and queens, knights and renegades, liars and noblemen -- vie for power in the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros in this adaptation of ''A Song of Ice and Fire,'' the fantasy book series by George R. R. Martin. Filmed in Northern Ireland and Malta, the story unfolds as King Robert Baratheon (Mark Addy) asks Lord Eddard Stark (Sean Bean, above) to help run his kingdom after the death of his right-hand man. Meanwhile, Princess Daenerys (Emilia Clarke) and her brother, Viserys (Harry Lloyd), whose family once ruled the kingdoms, are threatening the throne from the east. At the same time, in the north, Jon Snow (Kit Harington), Stark's illegitimate son, has joined the brotherhood of the Night's Watch, sworn protectors of the kingdoms. 
'' 'Game of Thrones' serves up a lot of confusion in the name of no larger or really relevant idea beyond sketchily fleshed-out notions that war is ugly, families are insidious and power is hot,'' Ginia Bellafante wrote in The New York Times, praising by comparison series like ''The Sopranos,'' ''The Wire'' and ''Deadwood.'' ''If you are not averse to the Dungeons & Dragons aesthetic, the series might be worth the effort. If you are nearly anyone else, you will hunger for HBO to get back to the business of languages for which we already have a dictionary.''
10 A.M. (Fox ) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACE Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood discusses recent suspensions of air traffic controllers who fell asleep on the job.
10 A.M. (TV One) NATIONAL ACTION NETWORK FORUM: MEASURING THE MOVEMENT 2011 WITH AL SHARPTON A broadcast of an April 9 meeting of Mr. Sharpton's civil rights group in which African-American leaders formed goals to advance political, economic and social agendas.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The topic: the budget battle. The guests: Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, and Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner talks about the economy, rising gas prices and the debt ceiling.
8 P.M. (ABC) EXTREME MAKEOVER: HOME EDITION Derek Jeter, the Yankees shortstop, and the Atlanta Braves lend support to the Halls of Wichita, Kan. A year ago, the father, Carl, an all-American college baseball player, was paralyzed below the shoulders in a car crash. He and his wife, Stacey, have four children.
8 P.M. (VH1) MOB WIVES In this reality show, four Staten Island women pick up the pieces and carry on while their men do time. They also try to debunk stereotypes perpetuated, they say, by ''The Godfather,'' ''The Sopranos'' and ''My Cousin Vinny'' -- a near-impossible feat once the daughter of the Mafia informant Salvatore Gravano, known as Sammy the Bull, returns after a 10-year absence.
9 P.M. (13, 49) UPSTAIRS DOWNSTAIRS In Part 2 of this ''Masterpiece Classic'' update of the landmark series from the 1970s, Rachel Perlmutter (Helen Bradbury), a German-Jewish refugee, arrives at 165 Eaton Place as a parlormaid, after having lost nearly everything. Elsewhere, the Foreign Office calls on Sir Hallam (Ed Stoppard) to appease the exiled emperor of Ethiopia, whose country has been annexed by Mussolini. But Hallam's diplomatic skills are also required at home, where his mother, Lady Maud (Eileen Atkins), still finds her daughter-in-law, Lady Agnes (Keeley Hawes), lacking.
9 P.M. (TV Land) 2011 TV LAND AWARDS This ninth-annual ceremony moves to New York City, bringing together the cast of ''The Cosby Show,'' the winner of the Impact Award; ''Family Ties'' (Fan Favorite Award), ''The Facts of Life'' (Pop Culture Award) and ''Welcome Back, Cotter'' (35th Anniversary Award). Regis Philbin, above, will receive the Legend Award; Daryl Hall and John Oates, the recipients of the Music Icon Award, will perform a few of their hits.
9 P.M. (Nickelodeon) FREEDOM TO BELIEVE ... OR NOT In this ''Nick News With Linda Ellerbee'' special, children discuss their religious beliefs.
9 P.M. (USA) BURN NOTICE: THE FALL OF SAM AXE (2011) Jeffrey Donovan, who plays Michael Westen, the hero and blacklisted spy in the series ''Burn Notice,'' directs this prequel, in which Michael's best friend, Lt. Cmdr. Sam Axe (Bruce Campbell), is sent to Colombia in 2005 to advise a military platoon. It turns out he may be allied with the wrong side.
10 P.M (AMC) THE KILLING Detectives Linden (Mireille Enos) and Holder (Joel Kinnaman) put pressure on Rosie's ex-boyfriend, Jasper (Richard Harmon), and his best friend, Kris (Gharrett Patrick Paon), to reveal what really happened at the high school dance. Meanwhile, Sterling (Kacey Rohl), divulges some surprising details about the murdered Rosie's personal life. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the television highlights in some editions on Sunday, about the 2011 TV Land Awards, misspelled part of the title of the show honored with the 35th Anniversary Award. It is ''Welcome Back, Kotter'' -- not ''Cotter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (90%); BASEBALL (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); FAMILY (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); FANTASY LITERATURE (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (62%); BUDGETS (61%); ATHLETES (60%); DEBT CEILING (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (68%); MARK WARNER (55%); DEREK JETER (50%); RAY LAHOOD (50%); AL SHARPTON (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) KANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



382 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING ED CAREERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2212 words

HEADLINE: The Top 10 List

BYLINE: By CECILIA CAPUZZI SIMON

 BODY:
Looming worker shortage. That's not a phrase one expects to hear at a time of high unemployment. But when experts look at the Bureau of Labor Statistics' list of the fastest-growing occupations, that's what they see: more than a million new jobs on the horizon by 2018, and a worker pool that may not be trained to fill them.
Such a list was first compiled in 1946, just after the end of World War II, to help veterans on the G.I. Bill make smart educational choices. One need only pay attention to news reports to guess where the current shortages may be: eight of the fields in the top 10 categories are health care or wellness related; one is in financial services; and the other is in the information technology field.
But, points out Michael Wolf, an economist with the bureau, ''The mere fact that a category is fast growing does not mean you can get a job in it.'' For most of these occupations, training (sometimes years of it) is necessary. 
1. BIOMEDICAL ENGINEER
Job Growth: 72 percent, or 12,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $82,550 mean; $103,000 for scientific and technical consultants
The Field: This relatively new specialty bridges the medical and engineering disciplines, with emphasis on engineering. Biomedical engineers design and build innovative devices (artificial limbs and organs, new-generation imaging machines) and improve processes (for genomic testing, or making and administering drugs).
Why It's Growing: Thank the quick clip of technological advances. Pharmaceutical and genomic industries, in particular, are ''exploding,'' says Helmut H. Strey, associate professor of biomedical engineering at Stony Brook University, which has about 100 students in its master's degree and Ph.D. programs.
Training: If you're attracted to this field, you aren't afraid of math, chemistry, physics and engineering, and already have the coursework. Engineers and biology majors are likely candidates for career transitions, though Dr. Strey believes that engineers will find it easier to complete required biology coursework than biologists will getting through the engineering. Either way, a master's is a must.
2. NETWORK SYSTEMS AND DATA COMMUNICATIONS ANALYST
Job Growth: 53 percent, or 156,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $76,560 mean; $99,000 in top industries (rail transportation, natural gas); $105,000 in tech corridors like San Jose and Santa Clara, Calif.
The Field: Analysts handle the virtual nuts and bolts of an I.T. department -- designing, building, testing and maintaining information systems, internal or Internet-wide. They also know network and data communications hardware and software.
Why It's Growing: The mobile data trend (smartphones, tablets) and ''cloud computing'' (subscription-based or pay-per-use services like apps and data storage) mean companies that scaled back I.T. departments in the 2008 economic downturn are hiring again. As Jonathan Hill, assistant dean of Pace University's Seidenberg School of Computer Science, says, just about every organization needs someone with these skill sets. ''If you have the degree, you can work at Sloan-Kettering, the F.B.I., PNC Bank or the New York City Ballet,'' he says. ''If you are good, you will be employed.''
Training: A background in computer science is not necessary -- ''These are very teachable skills,'' Mr. Hill says -- though students going back to school may need to complete prerequisites. At Pace, students come from across the spectrum, from philosophy majors to working adults ''pulled to the tech end'' of their company's operations. Certificates are useful for career changers, and many colleges will apply those credits toward a master's. Curriculums typically cover networking, database and Web design, mobile technology and Internet architecture.
3. HOME HEALTH AIDE
Job Growth: 50 percent, or 461,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $21,620 mean; up to $40,000 in affluent metropolitan areas
The Field: Home health aides assist the infirm in their homes or at an assisted-living or nursing home facility, preparing meals, doing light housekeeping and bathing patients. These licensed workers also take vital signs, administer drugs and operate medical equipment.
Why It's Growing: With our aging population, this field's high rank should be no surprise. Demand already outstrips supply, says William Dombi, vice president at the National Association for Home Care and Hospice, and that seems unlikely to change. ''Low pay and tough work,'' he says, mean burnout, turnover and continual recruitment. But the job has its rewards for those with the desire to help people and the physical and emotional constitution to do it. It is also a way to test the waters for nursing school.
Training: Community colleges, hospitals and home health care agencies provide programs for licensure -- usually 75 hours of training (some states require up to 120 hours). At Bergen Community College in Paramus, N.J., a new 76-hour course teaches the basics. Watch that programs actually fill licensing requirements.
4. PERSONAL AND HOME CARE AIDE
Job Growth:46 percent, or 376,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $20,280 mean; psychiatric sector and government agencies pay the most.
The Field: Same duties as home health aides, minus the medically oriented tasks. No license required.
Why It's Growing:See No. 3.
Training: On the job, though certificates from vocational schools may enhance employment opportunities.
5. FINANCIAL EXAMINER
Job Growth:41 percent, or 11,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $71,000 mean; the federal executive branch pays the most.
The Field: Call it ''C.S.I.: Accounting.'' Examiners, a k a internal auditors or compliance officials, dig into an organization's books, investigating transactions and minute detail to ensure compliance with the law. Accounting, finance or business backgrounds a must.
Why It's Growing: Implosions and scandals in the last few years involving the banking and insurance industries mean more companies are being scrutinized, internally and externally, and taking proactive steps to stay out of trouble.
Training: Becoming a financial examiner is less a career change than a career tweak. Many examiners have been singled out by their company and trained on the job, and licensing is not necessary. But others find status, job opportunities and a higher salary with credentials, or they may want to hang out their own shingle. The Society of Financial Examiners and the Institute of Internal Auditors offer self-directed courses and exams toward certification. The required accounting coursework can be acquired in continuing-education classes or master's study.
6. MEDICAL SCIENTIST
Job Growth:40 percent, or 44,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $84,760 mean; most jobs are in Massachusetts, California and Pennsylvania, which have supportive academic and research institutions.
The Field: Medical scientists study human disease and conditions, working in biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, university research centers or for the federal government.
Why It's Growing: Overpopulation and increased international travel have quickened the spread of known diseases and given rise to new ones -- think SARS, AIDS and avian flu -- requiring new medicines and cures. The field's big trend is the so-called bench to bedside movement or, more formally, translational science -- the search for practical applications for research that can move quickly to the marketplace.
Training: The heavy lifting is done by Ph.D.'s, or those with a joint Ph.D. and M.D., who design clinical trials and work closely with patients to monitor the application of their research. A general master's, perhaps in biology, can lead to work in a research lab; others specialize with a master's in bio-imaging or clinical investigation. Undergraduate underpinnings: biological science, complemented by math, physics and computer science.
7. PHYSICIAN ASSISTANT
Job Growth:39 percent, or 29,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $85,000 mean; Connecticut, Nevada and Washington are top-paying states at $96,000-plus.
The Field: Not quite a doctor, but not a nurse, P.A.'s are critical members of medical teams who diagnose conditions, and examine and treat patients with routine problems. Many choose the profession for lifestyle reasons: they want the medical and patient connection without the years of school and grueling demands placed on physicians.
Why It's Growing: High health care costs and a shortage of doctors make P.A.'s cost effective. They free up physicians and can spend more time with patients. In some rural and inner-city areas they are the only provider. They are ''absolutely one of the solutions to access to health care in this country,'' says Justine Strand de Oliveira, who heads Duke University's P.A. program, the oldest in the country.
Training: Rigorous. While any undergraduate degree is acceptable, prospective students will need prerequisites in biology, chemistry and statistics, and programs like to see a commitment to patient care as admissions criteria. Graduates get a master's in health sciences, then sit for boards that license them as P.A.'s. Many come from work as military medics, emergency medical technicians or community volunteers. Average age of students: 27. Entry into the two-year programs can be competitive. At Duke, more than 1,000 applied last year for 75 spots.
8. SKIN CARE SPECIALIST
Job Growth: 38 percent, or 15,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $13 median hourly wage; $60,000 or more in affluent areas, especially selling products
The Field: Skin care specialists treat the face and body, but mainly the face, and mainly the faces of women. Ninety-eight percent of practitioners are women (average age: 41), administering chemicals, Botox, lasers, microdermabrasion and skin peels in day spas and doctor's offices.
Why It's Growing: Boomers have dug in their heels on aging. Look at sales of anti-aging skin products, which rose 13 percent from 2006 to 2008, to $1.6 billion, and are expected to jump an additional 20 percent by 2013. Improvements in products and the technology for their application also account for growth, along with a diversifying client base -- a third of spa-goers are now men, and younger people are beginning to ''buy into'' skin care regimens, says Katie Armitage, president of Associated Skin Care Professionals, a trade group.
Training: All states but Connecticut require licensing. Training is at least 600 hours of clinical and classroom education covering anatomy, physiology and procedures. Cosmetology schools offer certificate programs (make sure they lead to a license), as do continuing education departments at community colleges like Houston Community College and Nassau Community College. Some community colleges offer associate's degrees in science or cosmetology that include skin care training and added coursework in business and health.
9. BIOCHEMIST AND BIOPHYSICIST
Job Growth:37 percent, or 9,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $88,550 mean; New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C., pay the best.
The Field:Closely related to medical scientists, biochemists and biophysicists study living organisms at the molecular level -- one focusing on their chemical composition, especially DNA and how it can be manipulated to treat disease and genetic disorders; the other using math and physics to understand how mechanical and electrical energy affect an organism. The three fields are so interrelated that labels are becoming artificial, says Beverly Wendland, chairwoman of the biology department at Johns Hopkins. At Hopkins, a cooperative graduate program -- Cell, Molecular and Developmental Biology and Biophysics -- is typical of the wave of interdisciplinary study in the field.
Why It's Growing: See No. 6.
Training: See No. 6.
10. ATHLETIC TRAINER
Job Growth:37 percent, or 6,000 new jobs by 2018
Salary: $41,340 mean
The Field: Not to be confused with personal trainers, athletic trainers work under a doctor's supervision and are schooled in sports medicine to prevent and treat muscular/skeletal injuries. These are the folks on the sidelines treating injured athletes. But they also work behind the scenes, designing training and strengthening exercises that prevent injury. ''We look at movement patterns or activities that create overuse or injury in many professions, and get workers back to their jobs quickly and safely,'' says Marjorie J. Albohm, president of the National Athletic Trainers' Association.
Why It's Growing:With the rising cost of health care, trainers are becoming an integral player in industry (Boeing and Disney use them), government (the military, F.B.I., Homeland Security and Department of Defense) and the performing arts (Cirque du Soleil and the Rockettes, in their traveling troupes).
Training: To practice, 47 states require licensing, and a bachelor's in athletic training is the minimum requirement. But some 70 percent of practitioners hold a master's in athletic training. Many come to the field through ''entry level'' master's -- five-year B.S./M.A. programs. For admission to a two-year master's program, prerequisite coursework includes biology, chemistry, physics and anatomy, along with electives like nutrition, biochemistry or exercise physiology that suggest knowledge and interest in the field. Certificates are mainly for an established athletic trainer to specialize.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (ED10
 ED12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (88%); BIOLOGY (87%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BIOMEDICAL & DENTAL MATERIALS (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); WORLD WAR II (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); CLOUD COMPUTING (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); SMARTPHONES (60%); TABLET COMPUTERS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



383 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: The Counting-House of Babel

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER. 
Jennifer Schuessler is an editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
Edmund Wilson was the leading literary critic of his generation. He was also an accomplished tax delinquent. From 1946 to 1955, Wilson did not file any income tax returns. Taxes were withheld from his salary at The New Yorker, but the proceeds from his best-selling novel ''Memoirs of Hecate County'' and other freelance work went to pay for his two divorces, three children and various houses. The Internal Revenue Service eventually caught up with him, hitting him with some $68,000 in back taxes and penalties. Even after his death in 1972, his wife was still dealing with the paperwork. 
Wilson's friend Arthur Schlesinger Jr. would later blame the mess on a ''drunken lawyer.'' But in ''The Cold War and the Income Tax,'' a blistering polemic published in 1963, Wilson saw more sinister forces at work. His own ordeal, he argued, was just one example of the ''high tide of taxation'' that was engulfing ordinary citizens and feeding our ''frantic'' nuclear rivalry with the Soviet Union. He was particularly irate about I.R.S. rules on deductions, which he deemed insensitive to writers. ''It is difficult, at my time of life, to think of anything that I do or anywhere that I go which could not be called a business expense,'' he wrote, sounding less like a lifelong man of the left than like Ron Paul. ''It is an insufferable impertinence of the federal government to ask why I have entertained my guests or why I have chosen to travel -- to say nothing of how many times I have been married, whom I have voted for and whether or not I buy my dog a bed.''
One wonders what Wilson would have made of ''The Pale King,''David Foster Wallace's posthumous novel about I.R.S. agents battling extreme boredom at a regional examination center in Peoria, Ill., in the mid-1980s. He certainly would have been baffled by Wallace's obedient taxpayer behavior. Wallace's own interest in the I.R.S., he wrote in a 2005 letter, was ''utterly divorced from my own taxes, which I pay promptly and fully like an Eagle Scout.'' Having no dog bed in the fight, he pursued tax arcana with an exuberantly obsessive relish that belied the novel's premise that the I.R.S. was the most boring subject on earth. In 1997, a year after the publication of his mammoth novel ''Infinite Jest,'' Wallace enrolled in accounting classes at Illinois State University and began plowing through shelves of technical literature, transcribing notes on tax scams, criteria for audit and the problem of ''agent terrorism'' into a series of notebooks.
He also carried on lively correspondence with tax lawyers and C.P.A.'s, peppering them with questions about the Tax Reform Act of 1986, compliance studies, I.R.S. office furniture, and an exotic tax shelter called ''the Silver Butterfly.'' Their replies, now held in the Wallace archive at the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas, evoke some of the big themes of the novel, and suggest that the philosophical Jesuit accounting professor who ''converts'' a character to a career in ''the Service'' may not be a wild invention. Consider the following letter to Wallace, written by one Stephen Lacy, who sounds like a figure from ''The Pale King'' but turns out to be a very real accountant in Evanston, Ill.
''Our tax system, as it currently exists, faces challenges,'' Lacy wrote, before offering a ''philosophical analogy'': ''Imagine someone who wants to have a purely realistic and Aristotelian outlook and metaphysic and wants to avoid thinking of how some of the radical insights of Godel, Wittgenstein, Davidson, Derrida and Deleuze might chip away at his system. The complexity of language and its nature of being contradictory and deconstructing are there all the time. . . . Sooner or later this person's world view will have major problems. Our tax system wants to be a 'modernist' enterprise in an increasingly 'postmodernist' world.''
Wallace's correspondence with Lacy began in 2005, when Lacy wrote to Wallace suggesting he write a book about the unsolved murder of Richard Montague, a U.C.L.A. philosopher whose work on semantics figures passingly in ''Infinite Jest.'' Lacy, in a telephone interview, said that he saw in Wallace a kindred spirit, a fellow Midwesterner and former philosophy student deeply interested in semantics and modal logic, except that Wallace ''obviously didn't have the writer's block that I had.'' But in one of Wallace's letters to Lacy, it sounded as though he was the one looking wistfully down the road not taken. ''Logic and semantics seem like a better prep for an accounting career than for freelance writing, which latter is disorderly and wholly without axiom,'' Wallace wrote.
Lacy sent Wallace some annotated I.R.S. papers and thoughts on the prospect of ''system collapse.'' He may have also given Wallace ballast for a central conceit in ''The Pale King'': that the crushing boredom of tax work may be the gateway to transcendent ecstasy (or, in the case of one agent, actual bodily levitation). In September 2005, Lacy sent Wallace a passage from section 509(a), ''legendary as the most difficult sentence to understand in the tax code,'' adding: ''I find that although I can never quite understand what it says, after I read it several times and concentrate, I can actually get into a kind of weird Zen-type meditation high! (Then again sometimes it provokes a profound anxiety attack.)''
Lacy said that he, like most of the world, had no idea Wallace was writing a book about the I.R.S. until after his suicide in 2008. And for all the stir the novel has caused in the literary world, the accounting profession has been slower to take notice. Joseph Thorndike, director of the Tax History Project and a contributing editor at Tax Notes magazine, expressed incredulity that Wallace had written about the I.R.S. Even for historians of bureaucracy, the subject ''seems incredibly boring,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''Let me tell you what it's like to go to a cocktail party and tell people you're a tax historian.''
Not that some writers haven't tried to make tax work seem exciting. For example, ''The Ultimate Rip-Off'' (1988), the first of more than a dozen ''vocational thrillers'' by D. Larry Crumbley, the KPMG Endowed Professor of Accounting at Louisiana State University, features an upright I.R.S. agent battling a crooked agency commissioner who steals $758 million in tax revenue in connection with a plot to build a neutron bomb.
''All of my novels have massive plots, and I kill a lot of people,'' Crumbley, who calls himself ''pro-I.R.S.,'' said in a telephone interview. ''If I teach a tax principle and it involves someone getting shot, people will remember that.''
Wallace read ''The Ultimate Rip-Off'' -- his heavily underlined copy is at the Ransom Center -- but apparently failed to absorb its lessons about plotting. At one point in ''The Pale King,'' a fertilizer bomb does go off outside an I.R.S. building, though a fragment included in a section of ''Notes and Asides'' suggests it might have just been a load of fertilizer. ''Again,'' Wallace wrote, ''something big threatens to happen but doesn't actually happen.''
Ultimately, the biggest threat to the endlessly exfoliating bureaucracy Wallace studied so closely may not be armed vigilantes, tax deniers or a neutron bomb but the flat tax, which according to its advocates will usher in a new age of prosperity while reducing the information we owe the I.R.S. to what can fit on a postcard. Come Tax Day, citizens of all political stripes may find themselves sympathetic to the idea. But Stephen Lacy calls tax simplification a fantasy, and not just because it would put him and his fellow C.P.A.'s -- not to mention aspiring tax novelists -- out of business.
The tax system tries to ''eliminate all metaphysics and deal with bare-bones facts,'' Lacy said. ''But the system is constantly being undermined by other social forces, by the economy, by politics. The more we try to simplify things, the more complex it gets.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); WRITERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COLD WAR (74%); BESTSELLERS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



384 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; THE GLOBAL CAMPUS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2848 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U. IN THE U.A.E.

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY. 
Suzanne Daley is European correspondent and former education editor of The Times.

 BODY:
IN a small classroom at New York University Abu Dhabi, Paulo Lemos Horta was pushing his students to explore the difficulties of translation. In some ways, it might have been a class on any American campus -- except that virtually everyone was fluent in a second language.
Between them, Mr. Horta's six students spoke Portuguese, Chinese, Russian, Polish and English. They were able to take a poem written originally in Portuguese and, with occasional help from Google, translate it over and over from one language to another, considering the shifts in meaning and emphasis that resulted.
''You can see,'' said Mr. Horta, ''that some things just cannot be said in another language.'' 
N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi isn't much to look at yet -- a low-rise building of steel and purple (one of N.Y.U.'s colors), about the size of a high school, sitting in a drab part of this fast-growing city where minarets and cranes fight for air space.
But it is taking shape nonetheless, opening last September with 150 students and about 45 professors, some like Mr. Horta having moved here for newly created tenure-track jobs. Its modest campus, surrounded by a patch of green grass, belies the scope of the ambition at work here.
Many American colleges and universities have created outposts around the world. But N.Y.U. is the first to open a liberal arts college intending to roughly reproduce the experience students get in Washington Square. It aims to have 2,200 undergraduates within the next 10 years, part of a plan by New York University's president, John Sexton, to create a worldwide network with N.Y.U.'s name on it. Last month, he announced a similar project for Shanghai, to open in 2013. Mr. Sexton says that the original founders of N.Y.U. saw it as a university ''in and of'' the city. Now, he believes, it is time for the university to become ''in and of the world.''
The financing of N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi is noteworthy. The college is being entirely paid for by Abu Dhabi, the largest and richest of the United Arab Emirates, which has so far provided generously, including financial aid for many students and a promise to build a sprawling campus on nearby Saadiyat Island, where branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums are under construction.
Whether the college will succeed, however, remains an open question. It is too soon to say, for instance, what, if any, impact the unrest in the Middle East might have on recruitment. And universities that have tried smaller projects in the region have failed spectacularly in the last year -- some, like Michigan State, losing millions of dollars in the process.
''John Sexton has a very entrepreneurial vision here,'' says Ben Wildavsky, senior fellow at the Kauffman Foundation and author of a book on international education, ''The Great Brain Race.'' ''He is trying to turn N.Y.U. into a global talent magnet. It may not work for many schools. It may not work for N.Y.U. But it is an audacious new way of thinking about a university.''
For now, the students live in a glass office tower, a noisy, dusty 20-minute walk across several eight-lane roads from the purple building, which is already fading in the intense sunlight. But beyond that, they are experiencing a Cadillac education. Most of their classes run like senior seminars. And they don't lack for comfort or entertainment. On a recent evening, a half-dozen students took swimming classes at a local country club. There was kayaking the evening before and a horseback-riding trip planned for the weekend.
Students travel farther afield, too. Mr. Horta's literature class is studying the Portuguese poet Luis de Camoes and the influence that living in the Arab world might have had on him, and he has taken them to a Portuguese fort on the Strait of Hormuz. Ruben Polendo, who teaches a class on theater in the Arab world, is taking his students to India to meet artists and participate in workshops, including one with his mentor.
Laith Aqel says he tried not to describe his school to friends when he went home to Wayne, N.J., over break. ''They would all just be jealous. I don't talk about it.''
The project is not without its critics, many of whom wonder how an American-style university can manage in a country still ruled by a royal family, where most Emerati women cover their heads and wrap themselves in black abayas when they go out, and local universities are single sex. Some N.Y.U. professors have said they feel cheapened by the deal. Some worry that the money can stop at any minute. Others do not want the university affiliated with a country that has a troubling history regarding academic freedom and human rights.
''The faculty was not consulted on this plan,'' says Andrew Ross, the chairman of the N.Y.U. chapter of the American Association of University Professors. ''If it had been consulted, I'm not sure many of them would have said yes.'' But hundreds of faculty members have volunteered to work there on a temporary basis.
''There is a lot of money sloshing around, and that has helped recruit faculty support,'' he says. A faculty member could expect to earn a large bonus -- in some cases the equivalent of two-thirds of a year's salary, Mr. Ross says -- and ''on top of that there are first-class tickets to go over there, your family can go with you, your children can go to private schools for free.''
Officials won't say what kind of deal they have with the royal family, which gave N.Y.U. $50 million before the project ever got off the ground. Beyond that, Mr. Sexton will say only that a yearly budget is discussed (he says he has never been ''disappointed'') and a 10-year plan exists. The new campus is supposed to open in 2014.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY has waded into a market that may be big but is poorly understood. According to Mr. Wildavsky, the number of students traveling outside of their home countries for school has grown to three million in the last decade and could reach eight million by 2025. All sorts of universities are making a bid for those students in all sorts of ways.
In 2009, the Observatory on Borderless Higher Education counted more than 160 branch campuses around the world offering full degrees, outposts of universities from 20 countries. After much resistance to sharing the brand, even Yale is getting in the act. In March, it announced that it would start a liberal arts college in Singapore, also totally financed by the government. The college will be based on Yale's signature resident college concept, in which students live, study and take classes in an intimate setting. Unlike N.Y.U., however, the college will not issue Yale degrees. Diplomas for Yale-N.U.S. College will come from the National University of Singapore.
While Asia, particularly China, has gained traction, the emirates have been at the forefront of the branch campus movement. Qatar's futuristic Education City hosts Carnegie Mellon, Georgetown, Northwestern, Virginia Commonwealth, Texas A&M and Cornell, the first American medical school to offer degrees overseas. The charter class of doctors graduated last year.
But predicting the market may not be so easy. Some efforts to expand in this region have ended badly. Michigan State, which opened a branch campus in Dubai in 2008, announced last July that it would be canceling all its undergraduate programs. Meanwhile, George Mason, one of the first American universities to open in the United Arab Emirates, closed its Ras al-Khaimah campus in May without having graduated a single student. Both institutions had trouble attracting strong students and lost financial backing during the economic downturn.
''There may be a vast untapped market, but how big it is, nobody knows,'' says Philip G. Altbach, an expert on international higher education at Boston College. ''And what it is, nobody knows.'' Mr. Altbach says he has seen too many universities rush in ''starry eyed'' when they are offered money by local governments. ''It makes you very au courant to have a foreign branch,'' he says. ''But they are risking their name brand and reputation. Those institutions that have gone belly up have lost some of their luster or at least looked pretty stupid.''
Mr. Altbach says there are many potential pitfalls out there for the N.Y.U. model. ''For one thing, why would foreign students go to N.Y.U.A.D. if their parents can afford an American education? And for Americans, why go to Abu Dhabi if you are interested in the Middle East? Abu Dhabi is a highly scrubbed, highly unrealistic version of the Middle East. It's kind of a false environment.''
Another issue that has nagged foreign programs is keeping a high-caliber faculty. In the first years, there is some interest, he says. But it quickly wanes.
For his part, Mr. Sexton says N.Y.U.'s presence in Abu Dhabi was simply the natural progression of his desire to make the New York University experience more global. Originally, he was only envisioning another study-abroad program when he went to meet Sheik Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi, in 2006. But the sheik made clear that he wanted nothing less than a full-fledged sister school issuing N.Y.U. diplomas.
The curriculum is based on N.Y.U.'s, but re-engineered for a far smaller institution with cross-cultural perspectives. Instead of focusing on the great books of Western civilization, for instance, the focus is on great books and fundamental ideas of different culture. And classes are small, usually with fewer than 15 students, which for freshmen is practically unheard of.
Several of the professors, like Mr. Horta, who was born in Budapest to Brazilian parents, were attracted to both those aspects. As a bonus, he says, the student body was academically talented and imbued with a certain idealism. ''These kids have an intangible quality,'' he says, ''the way they relate to each other. There is a great level of civility. There really is no clique-ism here. It is a little utopian.''
The generous financing allowed N.Y.U. to take some unusual steps as it sought new students. It hired the Institute of International Education, which administers the Fulbright scholarships, to scour the world for candidates. Top high schools were asked to nominate students. When N.Y.U. admissions officials had settled on about 275 candidates they liked, they flew them to Abu Dhabi for two days -- whether the students had already applied or not.
The same process was repeated this year.
The weekend included a dinner in the desert under the stars, shopping in the massive Madinat Zayed Shopping Center, a visit to the Sheik Zayed Grand Mosque (the chandeliers are the largest in the world, made from gold-plated copper with millions of Swarovski crystals) and a farewell gathering at the opulent Emirates Palace, a $3 billion hotel that offers the sensation of Las Vegas on steroids. There is even a vending machine that sells gold.
The result is a student body that some New York professors who have taught in Abu Dhabi believe is stronger than the one at Washington Square. By any measure the statistics are impressive: the average math and verbal SAT score is 1445.
N.Y.U. will not discuss what percentage of the class receives financial aid -- all supplied by Abu Dhabi, including any travel related to studies -- but the figure is high. Officials say that without significant aid they could not compete for students from Canada, Australia or much of Europe, where higher education is cheap or free. Annual tuition with room and board is about the same as in New York -- $53,000.
The current class was culled from 9,048 applications, but the number is deceptive because N.Y.U. applicants could check a box saying they would also like to be considered for Abu Dhabi. Just 957 applied to Abu Dhabi alone. (Of students accepted, four of five enrolled, and only one student has dropped out.) For next fall, 1,184 applicants wanted to be considered for the Abu Dhabi campus only; another 4,670 were interested in both campuses. The admission rate, officials say, is still 3 percent.
Of the inaugural class, 30 percent is American. Students come from 39 countries and speak 43 languages -- 40 percent speak three or more -- and range from children of wealthy Emerati families to the very poor. One student, Musbah Dilsebo Ormago, grew up in the streets of Ethiopia before being rescued by a charity. He is not sure how old he is, though he guesses 20. He is studying political science. The soccer team is now named after him. ''It is like a small heaven here,'' he says. ''You explain about your life and all they see is courage. It is not like that everywhere in the world.''
On a recent evening, the school team was playing soccer on the outskirts of the city, a huge mosque lit up in the background. Since there are not enough college teams to play against, the students faced a local company's team. The N.Y.U. coach, undeterred, shouted out instructions and encouragement from the sidelines.
Some students complain there is not much contact with the world around them. Administrators may be doing their best to reach out to other campuses, but it isn't easy. For instance, student exchange opportunities often have to be along gender lines. A group of female students will soon meet with the student council from one of the local woman's colleges. N.Y.U.'s men are not invited.
''I expected it to be easier to get into the community,'' says Alistair Blacklock, who comes from Vancouver. ''It has been surprisingly easy to stay in the four-block radius of our own neighborhood.''
Jessica Tattersall, from Sydney, says she will be glad next year when the school is bigger. ''I miss the experience of having upperclassmen who can tell us where to go, even just where to go to buy things.'' The student body is so small that some typical activities have had to be pared back. Ms. Tattersall, who is busy helping found the student newspaper, says weekly publication just ended up being too ambitious. ''There just aren't enough of us,'' she says. ''So, it's once a month.''
The students here are keenly aware of the turmoil in countries around them, issues brought home by classmates from the region. ''We all keep up with it every day,'' says Chani Gatto-Bradshaw, who is from Toronto. They are also well aware of the controversies surrounding their university. They are quick to defend: N.Y.U. has extracted guarantees from the government, they point out, including American-style academic freedom and an understanding that conditions for workers building the campus will be better than elsewhere in the Emirates.
They are more likely to talk about how they might influence conditions than protest them. ''I would like to do something about the environment,'' says Mr. Blacklock. ''There is no recycling system here. If you look around you can see there is not much sense of the desert as a biosphere. It would be nice to be able to raise awareness.''
Ms. Gatto-Bradshaw is fascinated by her host country. She finds the Emeratis to be a lot like her Italian family. ''They are family-oriented and they love to get together and eat,'' she says. She has her own abaya, a present from a classmate who has taken her home for dinner on weekends. She is now skillful at tying her headscarf in both the Emerati and Palestinian style. ''It's kind of fun to wear it,'' she says. ''It's like dressing up.'' The women's taxis, which have pink lights and are driven by women, are a particularly pleasant feature of life for women in Abu Dhabi, she says. ''You don't have to take them, but they are very nice. They always smell good, too.''
Dorms have an all-male and all-female floor that the opposite sex is barred from visiting, in deference to Muslim students who are more comfortable in that atmosphere. Otherwise it's business as usual.
Four floors resemble dorm life in the United States. Posters are stuck all over the hallways, and there is hardly a made bed in sight. And some students have proved savvy at finding liquor -- in stores that cater to foreigners or hotel bars. ''It works just like it does in America,'' says one student. ''The drinking age is 21, but you can get around that.''
Many students, though, prefer hookah bars because they are legal. Public drunkenness is against the law, punishable by fines and jailing, and gay rights are nonexistent. Drug laws are even tougher; dealers can get the death penalty. And tourists have been jailed for kissing on the street.
So far, students have stayed out of trouble. Mr. Sexton says an incident is sure to crop up eventually.
''I have them here,'' he says. ''A couple years ago, I had two students who wanted to copulate on a desk as an art project. So something will happen. I'm sure.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday in the special Education Life section about New York University's Abu Dhabi campus misspelled the name of a student. He is Laith Aqel, not Laif Aquel. The article also misstated, using information from N.Y.U., the number of applicants flown to Abu Dhabi last year to see the campus. It was 274, not 300.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOTHAM EAST: Musbah Dilsebo Ormago, left, and Nicholas Scoulios at New York University's campus in Abu Dhabi. (ED24)
CULTURAL EXCHANGE: Chani Gatto-Bradshaw, far left, socializing in her dorm and in an abaya, a gift from a classmate (her usual street attire: American teen). (ED25)
 WORLDLY WISDOM: Paulo Lemos Horta and his students on a field trip to see original documents. ''It is a little utopian.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE HOAGLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



385 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; NOTEBOOK SPENDING; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Perception

BYLINE: By HENRY E. RIGGS. 
Henry E. Riggs is president emeritus of Harvey Mudd College and the Keck Graduate Institute.

 BODY:
RECENTLY, I joined friends at a lunch table where a lively discussion of college tuition was in progress. The question at hand was a chestnut: why does college cost so much, and why does the cost grow so alarmingly year after year? I interrupted my lunch mates. They -- and most of the public -- misconstrue the issue. They are really asking why the price of tuition is so high.
The reason is simple, and not just semantics. It's explained in every Econ 1 textbook: supply and demand.
Market strategists know that costs are usually irrelevant in determining prices. The optimum price is the one the market will bear, the price at which demand and supply are matched. Tuition in the private higher-education industry is a classic example of price leadership -- the ''top players'' define the sticker price and all others follow suit. Each year, tuitions increase by 1 percent to 3 percent over the previous year's inflation rate, and still more during recent years of low inflation and modest endowment returns. 
Consider the announced tuition and fees for this academic year at these market leaders: Harvard ($38,416), Princeton ($36,640), Stanford ($39,201) and Yale ($38,300). They are not tightly clustered because their costs are identical. Why would it cost almost exactly the same to operate any two institutions as complex as a university?
Further, differences in endowments seem to have little or no effect on how much tuition they charge. Stanford and Yale have almost identical tuition, and yet, with Yale's greater endowment and smaller enrollment, its endowment per student is almost 70 percent greater than Stanford's.
Indeed, they are so tightly clustered because the prospective students and their families who are their customers consider all four institution to be tops, and equal in prestige and quality.
If my argument holds, then prices should reflect perceived quality, with emphasis on ''perceived.'' They do.
Consider the pricing decision at universities just below the super-elites. To charge well below the acknowledged leaders might signal lower quality, not at all the message they wish to convey. So Duke ($40,575), Emory ($39,158), University of Southern California ($41,022), Notre Dame ($39,919), Cornell ($39,666) and Washington University in St. Louis ($40,374) price themselves right with or even slightly above the leaders.
Tuition and fees at top liberal arts colleges -- Pomona ($39,394), Amherst ($40,862) and Swarthmore ($39,600) -- are similarly grouped.
''Prestige'' and ''quality'' are in the eyes of the beholder. Wannabes price themselves accordingly. Ursinus College acknowledged, when it sharply raised tuition, that it did so to build the perception of quality. Claremont McKenna, neighbor to Harvey Mudd College, where I served as president, raised its tuition when it realized it was gaining nothing by being priced below its competition.
The fact that tuitions are set to five significant figures implies precise calculation. But pricing is a marketing, not a cost accounting, decision.
My lunch companions protested: these are nonprofit colleges, not for-profit enterprises.
But neither, said I, are they expense-minimizing enterprises.
Administrators strive to avoid losing money, while achieving only a small excess of revenue over expenses. Once tuition is set, costs are controlled -- or permitted to grow -- to match the maximum revenues each institution believes it can get. One assumption is safe: colleges spend all they can get their hands on. No administrator or faculty member I know is short of ideas on how to spend more.
Consider the cost of educating students at two liberal arts colleges with similar missions, Pomona and Earlham.
For 2009-10, Earlham reports having spent about $40,650 for each of 1,113 full-time equivalent students. Pomona spent just under $77,420 per student, with 1,540 full-time equivalencies. Though its tuition is less than 10 percent higher than Earlham's, Pomona manages to spend almost twice as much.
Now, Earlham's rural Indiana location is unlike Pomona's suburban Southern California location, but geography doesn't begin to explain the difference.
Could Earlham -- current tuition and fees: $36,694 -- charge a lot more? Probably not. For all its fine qualities, it is not perceived as a top-tier college, and the market likely would not bear it. Could Pomona charge more? Yes. But it could also charge less -- and spend less.
Interestingly, if Pomona's per-student spending were the same as Earlham's, it could charge zero tuition and not even have to draw 5 percent from its endowment (a typical annual payout rate).
But why should Pomona spend less as long as the market continues to bear the current rate?
Well-endowed institutions lament that even their high tuitions cover only half the cost of educating undergraduates.
Here's a question for another luncheon engagement: Institutions may be able to spend twice the amount of tuition, but do they need to spend so much? If Ponoma spent the same as Earlham, faculty members might have to teach more than two courses a semester, and dorms and recreational centers would be less luxurious. Of course, not all of this spending is trivial. Spending less means financial aid policies would be less generous and the student body therefore less diverse and stellar.
As sticker prices have increased, so has scholarship aid offered. In effect, prices are discounted just sufficiently to ''clear the market'' -- match supply and demand -- for the students the college wishes to enroll. Many of these scholarships are financed through tuitions paid by wealthier students. To date, parents don't seem to be rebelling against these Robin Hood activities.
But those responsible for setting tuitions at prestigious universities have for years worried that they might soon hit the wall -- that is, price themselves out of the market. Perhaps there isn't an upper limit, or wall, or perhaps that worry has less to do with what a family can afford than with perceptions of price gouging and frivolous spending.
With the demand for top-end colleges and universities only growing, and a finite supply of slots, my bet is that tuitions will continue for some time to rise at a pace well above inflation.
Rich institutions will get richer, dishing out more financial aid, hiring the best teachers, receiving more gifts, amassing bigger endowments and building more fancy rec centers.
The rate of increase in the number of applications in recent years has been more than double that of tuition increases. Obviously, the ''buyers'' believe that the extra investment in tuition has a positive return on investment.
Thus: Who is to blame for escalating tuitions, the ''suppliers'' of higher education or the ''demanders''? Check, please.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM DALY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



386 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Our Cheating Psyches

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
To some it was a fitting end to a pointless witch hunt. On Wednesday, after weeks of graphic testimony about steroid use, a jury in San Francisco could not reach a verdict on charges that Bonds had lied about using performance-enhancing drugs, and the judge declared a mistrial.
But for those who feel most strongly about cheating, the verdict was more like a kick in the stomach. Flouting the rules is, for them, not only morally wrong but a lasting offense to good citizens everywhere: If guilty, offenders should pay, whether they're rich or poor, malingerers or masters of the universe -- like the financial figures central to the economic collapse of 2008. 
The sentiment runs particularly high now at tax time, when almost everyone thinks that he's paying too much while others cheat.
Yet paradoxically, it's often an obsession with fairness that leads people to begin cutting corners in the first place.
''Cheating is especially easy to justify when you frame situations to cast yourself as a victim of some kind of unfairness,'' said Dr. Anjan Chatterjee, a neurologist at the University of Pennsylvania who has studied the use of prescription drugs to improve intellectual performance. ''Then it becomes a matter of evening the score; you're not cheating, you're restoring fairness.''
The boilerplate tale of a good soul gone wrong is well known. It begins with small infractions -- illegally downloading a few songs, skimming small amounts from the register, lies of omission on taxes -- and grows by increments. The experiment becomes a hobby that becomes a way of life. In a recent interview with New York magazine, Bernard Madoff said his Ponzi scheme grew slowly from an investment advisory business that he began as a sideline for certain clients.
This slippery-slope story obscures the process of moving to the dark side; namely, that people subconsciously seek shortcuts more than they realize -- and make a deliberate decision when they begin to cheat in earnest.
In a series of recent studies, Dan Ariely of Duke University and his colleagues gave college students opportunities to cheat on a general knowledge test. In one, students were instructed to transfer their answers onto a form with color-in bubbles, to register their official score. Some received bubble sheets with the correct answers seemingly inadvertently shaded in gray, and changed about 20 percent of their answers. A follow-up study demonstrated that they were unaware of the magnitude of their dishonesty. They were cheating without being fully aware of it.
Yet the behavior changes once a clear rule is in place. ''If you specifically tell people in these studies not to use the answer key and just sign their name,'' said Zoe Chance, a doctoral student at Harvard who worked on some of the experiments, ''they won't look at it.''
David DeSteno, a psychologist at Northeastern University in Boston and co-author of the coming book ''Out of Character,'' about deception and other misbehavior, said: ''With all of these kinds of decisions there's a battle between short- and long-term gains, a tension between the more virtuous choice and the less virtuous one. And of course there are outside factors that can sway that arrow to one side or another.''
That is, low-level cheating may be natural and even productive in some situations; the brain naturally seeks useful shortcuts. But most people tend to follow rules they accept as fair, even when they have the opportunity and a strong incentive to break them.
In short, the move from small infractions to a deliberate pattern of deception or fraud is less an incremental slide than a deliberate strategy. And in most people it takes shape for personal, and often very emotional, reasons, psychologists say.
One of the most obvious of these is resentment of an authority or a specific rule. The evidence of this is easy enough to see in everyday life, with people flouting laws about cellphone use, smoking, the wearing of helmets. In studies of workplace behavior, psychologists have found that in situations where bosses are abusive, many employees withhold the unpaid extras that help an organization, like being courteous to customers or helping co-workers with problems.
Yet perhaps the most powerful urge to cheat stems from a deep sense of unfairness, psychologists say. As people first begin to compete and compare themselves with others, as early as middle school, they also begin to learn of others' hidden advantages. Private tutors. Family money. Alumni connections. A regular golf game with the boss. Against a competitor with such advantages, taking credit for other people's work at the office is not only easier, it can seem only fair.
Once the cheating starts, it's natural to impute it to others. ''When it comes to negative characteristics, we tend to overestimate how much others have in common with us,'' said David Dunning, a psychologist at Cornell University.
That is to say: A corner cutter often begins to think everyone else is cheating after he has started cheating, not before.
''And if they are subsequently rewarded for the extra productivity, they tend to internalize the feeling of pride and view their success as due to inherent ability and not something else they were using,'' said Dr. DeSteno.
Finally, in the winner-take-all environment that characterizes many competitive fields, cheating feels like a hedge against that most degrading sensation: being a chump. The fear of finishing out of the money and hearing someone say, ''Wait, you mean to tell me you could have and you didn't?'' Psychologists argue that the sensation of being duped -- anger, self-blame, bitterness -- is such a singular cocktail that it forces an uncomfortable kind of self-awareness.
How much of a fool am I? How did I not see this?
It happens every day to people who resist cheating. Nothing fair about it.
Correction: April 24, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about cheating misstated part of the jury's verdict in the Barry Bonds trial. The jury could not reach a verdict on charges that Bonds had lied about using performance-enhancing drugs, and the judge declared a mistrial; the jury did not clear Bonds of those charges.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE CONVICTED: Barry Bonds, found guilty last week, but only of obstruction of justice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE ACCUSED: Raj Rajaratnam, insider-trading defendant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 THE FRAUDSTER: Bernard Madoff, Ponzi schemer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY FREIDA)(WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (90%); STEROIDS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); MISTRIAL (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); LITIGATION (78%); SCHOOL CHEATING (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (66%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (54%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



387 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; NEW YORK AUTO SHOW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Showing a Brave Face To Industry Headwinds

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
IN essence, an auto show is just a dealer's showroom with higher production values -- a chance for the local sales force to persuade shoppers that now is the time to buy.
With the 2011 New York International Auto Show preparing to greet multitudes of shoppers on fact-finding missions, the region's dealers would naturally prefer to focus on the latest models and the news of their building sales momentum. But events in the Far East -- the aftermath of natural disasters in Japan and a headline-grabbing auto show in China -- highlight the industry's increased global interdependence and how those links can bring both profit and pain.
As the New York show's two days of media previews start Wednesday at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan, Japanese automakers will be racing to minimize any new-car shortages created by post-tsunami factory shutdowns and slowdowns, especially those popular hybrids, luxury models and niche entries made only in Japan. Showroom arrivals for some promising models displayed at recent auto shows will be delayed, analysts say. 
In China, a scheduling coincidence has the Shanghai auto exhibition, a youngster with just a 14-year history, overlapping New York's century-old event.
Like a married couple divvying up holiday duties with the in-laws, auto companies and their executives must choose which show to attend and which cars to send to each. Citing Shanghai's broader reach, BMW will send global executives to China and deploy its United States officials to New York.
Rather than play favorites, General Motors and Mercedes-Benz each will hold dual unveilings of important cars -- the 2013 Malibu from Chevrolet and an A-Class concept from Mercedes -- in both cities.
No one can blame automakers for cozying up to the Chinese market. Michael Albano, who recently returned to Detroit after three years in Shanghai to become Chevrolet's communications director, acknowledged China's growing influence on G.M.'s designs, sales and profits. Even as business crumbled in the American market and the company slid toward bankruptcy, its Chinese sales were booming, from fewer than 900,000 cars in 2006 to nearly 2.4 million last year.
Shanghai's show won't overshadow Manhattan's exhibition, said Mark Schienberg, president of the Greater New York Automobile Dealers Association. The Javits Center will have more all-new models than any show in decades, with roughly 56 cars making their world or North American debuts, he said, adding that advance ticket sales were up 34 percent. The public show, which drew over 1 million attendees last year, opens on Friday and runs through May 1.
In addition to unveilings inside the convention center, carmakers have scheduled a flurry of off-site press events. Lexus will show its LF-Gh hybrid concept on Tuesday evening, along with an appearance by an ''Iron Chef,'' Masaharu Morimoto.
Toyota, still recovering from its spate of safety recalls, must now scramble to restore its factories to full-tilt production. Since the earthquake and tsunami last month, the company has lost more than a quarter-million units of production; the total shortfall for Japan's seven largest automakers amounts to 510,000, according to a trade publication, Automotive News.
Recovering from those losses won't happen overnight. Even when factories return to full output, filling the pipeline will require some six to seven weeks of overtime to make up for each lost week, said Michael Robinet, director for global production forecasting at IHS Automotive.
Buyers here, however, may be among the first in line: Japanese makes will first concentrate on stocking dealers in North America, Europe and other key export markets, Mr. Robinet said.
''Whatever happens, the Japanese don't want to lose market share outside of Japan,'' he said.
For now, the effects of Japan's disasters on Detroit have been relatively minor. But snafus may yet lurk in the intricate global supply chain, perhaps in the depleting supply of parts in a supplier's warehouse.
''The Detroit Three is putting a brave face on it, but to think that they will escape unscathed would be folly,'' Mr. Robinet said.
Jesse Toprak, vice president for industry trends at TrueCar.com, said that the average vehicle had 30,000 parts, and it took only one to drag production to a halt.
''You can't say, 'Sorry, there's no air-conditioning button or the computer chip for your transmission,' '' he said.
Mike Jackson, chief executive of AutoNation, the country's largest auto retailer, said shoppers can expect to see fewer discounts and incentives as hot models grow scarce on dealer lots.
Mr. Jackson, whose chain comprises more than 2o0 dealerships, expects used-car prices to reach record levels by May. Consumers, many of whom put off vehicle purchases during the recession, will look at pre-owned models if they can't find the new version they want. And today's buyers are less anxious about used cars, Mr. Jackson said, with improved durability and the extended warranties of certified pre-owned programs.
Despite the clouds looming just over the horizon, experts don't expect conditions to markedly hamper the recent sales comeback. According to Automotive News, a consensus of analysts projects sales of about 13 million vehicles this year, up from 11.6 million in 2010.
Pent-up demand and improving economic fundamentals are bringing people back to dealerships despite the threat of $4-a-gallon gas. But conditions might make them buy a different car, Mr. Toprak said.
''If you can't get a Prius, you might buy a Corolla, a Camry Hybrid or even a car from the competition,'' he said.
Fuel prices can also change minds at automakers: Mercedes has shied away from selling its small A-Class in America. But spokesmen say the A-Class concept to be shown in New York is likely to spawn a showroom version for the United States.
Fiat's one-model American line expands slightly with the debut of an open-air version -- a Roman-shade soft top rather than a folding convertible roof -- called the 500c. Nissan will roll out a new Versa, a budget sedan that replaces the current hatchback. Subaru is bringing a more fuel-efficient version of its Impreza compact sedan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AIR TIME: Fiat is introducing the 500c, an open version of its lone American model, at the auto show. (AU1)
PREVIEW: The LF-Gh hybrid hints at the direction of future designs from the Lexus brand.
 SMALL TALK: Mercedes Concept A-Class, a small front-drive car. (AU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); DIRECT SALES FORCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FORCE (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); TSUNAMIS (70%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



388 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; THE GLOBAL CAMPUS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Around the World, and Still Home

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
STUDY abroad is one thing, a degree abroad another. The movement is nascent, but it is possible to earn a degree from an American university without setting foot in the United States, or by flitting among campuses. American colleges and universities operate about 80 branches that offer full degrees, in English, according to the Observatory on Borderless Higher Education, a British research institute. Nearly 80 percent of them have opened since 1999.
The programs largely serve residents of the host country, international students wanting an American education but unable to come to the United States, and American expatriots and study-abroad participants.
Five study-abroad students at the Savannah College of Art and Design in Hong Kong have stayed behind to finish their degrees. Michelle Strickling, an M.F.A. candidate from Decatur, Ala., changed her plans. 
''When fall quarter ended and it was time to go back to the States,'' she says, ''I asked myself if I really wanted to walk away from all of the possibilities that Hong Kong presented for me as a student and an artist. The answer was no.''
The experience is not for everyone. Facilities at branch campuses can be limited, as are majors offered. But officials, in the interest of globalization, are trying to make ''interuniversity transfer'' more seamless. Credits are transferable -- it's the same curriculum, they stress -- and admissions criteria is identical, they say.
''Right now, the American degree is the global degree -- it's the most respected and it carries the most weight,'' says Edward Guiliano, president of the New York Institute of Technology, which has six degree-granting branches worldwide. ''It's not study abroad anymore. It's live in the world.''
BOSTON UNIVERSITY, BRUSSELS
B.U. offers master's degrees in international relations and leadership in Brussels, home to the European Union and NATO. Average student age is 30, and students are likely to be in Belgium for a few years because of career commitments. To accommodate, programs are offered part time as well as full. About 20 of the 100 students are American. ''It's a very smart thing for an American to do,'' says Jay A. Halfond, dean of Boston University Metropolitan College, the continuing education arm that administers the program. ''You can go for a graduate degree in management or a management-related field for less than the cost of an M.B.A. and live in an exciting, cosmopolitan city.''
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY, PANAMA
The branch campus, in a complex called the City of Knowledge along the canal in Panama City, opened more than 50 years ago to educate service members stationed in the canal zone. When the canal transferred to Panamanian control in 1999, Florida State opened its program to foreign students. Now students from about 15 nations are working toward undergraduate degrees in computer science, international affairs, interdisciplinary social science and environmental studies. A quarter of the 416 students this year are American. Citizens residing in Panama usually spend a couple years at the campus before finishing their degree in the United States, says James E. Pitts, Florida State's director of international programs.
NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Mr. Guiliano prefers to think of N.Y.I.T. as a ''connected community'' rather than an institution with branches. It has five: in Abu Dhabi; Amman, Jordan; Manama, Bahrain; Vancouver, British Columbia; and Nanjing, where in 2007 it opened the first bricks-and-mortar undergraduate campus in China. At the sprawling Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, N.Y.I.T. offers degrees in international business, communication arts, electrical and computer engineering and computer science. At the international locations, 70 Americans are enrolled full time in degree programs.
ST. LOUIS UNIVERSITY, MADRID
Some 675 students, about half of them American, study at this Jesuit university's campus, a cluster of buildings not far from the Plaza Mayor and overlooking the mountains north of the city. Perhaps the most interconnected of the branch campuses, it offers six bachelor's in fields like economics and communications and two master's, in Spanish and English. All English majors must spend a semester in St. Louis.
SAVANNAH COLLEGE OF ART AND DESIGN, HONG KONG
In September, S.C.A.D. opened Hong Kong's first art and design school, in the North Kowloon Magistracy hall, a 1960s neoclassical building (complete with jail cell) that was awarded to the college in exchange for restoring it. S.C.A.D. Hong Kong offers 14 undergraduate and graduate degrees in subjects like photography, interactive design and game development. A third of the 148 students currently enrolled are Americans.
Students can also put together a college career by moving among the Savannah, Atlanta and Hong Kong campuses and a study-abroad site in Lacoste, France, all for the same tuition. ''We do not tend to use the term 'study abroad,' '' says John Paul Rowan, vice president for S.C.A.D. Hong Kong.
Oh, and its honorary professor: Jackie Chan.
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY JAPAN
The Tokyo campus opened in 1982 as the first and largest foreign university in Japan. For many of its American students, according to the dean, Bruce Stronach, Temple Japan has been their first-choice college: ''They want to study Japanese and/or Asian studies in situ or either live or have parents who are posted closer to Tokyo than Philadelphia.''
What impact Japan's nuclear crisis will have on enrollment is unclear. Typically, more than 1,200 students -- about 40 percent of them American -- are enrolled here in degree programs, including a law school and M.B.A. program. With safety warnings from the State Department, regular classes were suspended and the spring study-abroad program canceled, and about 220 of Temple's American students left the country.
But undergraduate classes resumed on April 4, and two-thirds of students returned. A few study-abroad students, too, have decided to finish up their year as regular students. And Temple continues to look forward: a dual bachelor's/master's degree is still on the drawing board for fall, with the hope of increasing synergy between campuses. Students would spend three years in Japan, and two on the main Philadelphia campus.
WEBSTER UNIVERSITY
Webster is based in St. Louis but has more than 100 bricks-and-mortar locations. Its first foreign outpost, in Geneva, opened in 1978 to school Americans living in Europe, says Elizabeth J. Stroble, the university president. More than 2,000 students are now enrolled abroad, and each campus offers undergraduate degrees (except China) and an M.B.A. Students are urged to sample life at the different campuses; the university offers a program in which students spend 11 months shuttling among the campuses abroad, including in Leiden, the Netherlands; London; Vienna; Shanghai; and Cha-am, Thailand.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY INTERNATIONAL
CHIA CHONG/S.C.A.D.
 CLAUDIA BURRIS/WEBSTER UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CURRICULA (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); CITY LIFE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); DECATUR, AL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (92%); BELGIUM (92%); PANAMA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



389 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: CONTRIBUTORS

BYLINE: By KATHRYN BRANCH

 BODY:
Tati Cotliar
As a child, the Argentine model Tati Cotliar loved to play make-believe: ''I always imagined things that couldn't happen to me in the real world.'' So posing in ''A Diamond in the Roughage'' (Page 66) as an exotic overgrown garden, with rose petals and yellow dandelions on her face, was no great feat for the 22-year-old portena and cinema nut. Cotliar just walked the fall 2011 runways for Louis Vuitton, Prada and Marc Jacobs.
Joshua Levine 
''I wish I was in the position to care more deeply,'' the writer Joshua Levine jokes about his inability to buy diamonds in excess. Levine, a native New Yorker -- he wrote ''The Rise and Fall of the House of Barneys'' -- lives in Paris and travels the world for publications like Forbes and Time. For ''A Beautiful Mine'' (Page 74), he visited the De Beers Orapa mine in Botswana. ''I have technically been to Africa before, but it didn't really feel like Africa,'' he says. ''This felt like Africa.''
Peter Philips
''I love a little tongue-in-cheek,'' says the makeup artist Peter Philips. In the '90s, Philips drew a gothic-looking Mickey Mouse face onto a model for a Raf Simons-inspired fashion shoot. ''We didn't exactly keep a low profile here, either,'' he says of our green story (Page 66). Philips is a fixture at Fashion Week -- he did the makeup for Fendi and Alexander McQueen this past season -- but his home remains Chanel's gilded headquarters in Paris, where he is its global creative director of makeup.
Angelo Pennetta
''I've always enjoyed photographing people, and I'm almost happier on a portrait shoot than a fashion shoot,'' says the photographer Angelo Pennetta, who shot our fall looks in ''Say Yes to the Dress'' (Page 78). ''So I try and treat each fashion image as a portrait.'' Pennetta, who was ''rubbish at art in school,'' forewent a bachelor's degree in business and Italian at the London School of Economics and is now a frequent contributor to Love and Japanese Vogue.
Daphne Merkin
In February, smack in the middle of Oscar madness, Daphne Merkin flew to Los Angeles to have breakfast with Cate Blanchett (''Vanishing Act,'' Page 60). It was something of an encore: Merkin first dined with the actress in 2003 (also for The Times). Merkin says Blanchett remains ''as inscrutable as ever.'' An influential voice in New York's literary scene, Merkin also teaches a Hunter College course on writing a personal essay. It's called ''Truth or Dare.''
Lynn Yaeger
Although she's a trend-savvy fashion writer and a ''big shopper and buyer of things,'' Lynn Yaeger may never completely convert to the kind of green-only grooming she writes about in ''A Diamond in the Roughage'' (Page 66). But she's doing her part for the planet: ''I live in a 1920s apartment, I do not have an air conditioner, I do not have a car.'' (The one seen here belongs to the Parisian boutique Merci.) Yaeger is a regular contributor to Vogue and Travel & Leisure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIPS: WILLY VANDERPERRE
MERKIN: PATRICK MCMULLAN
 YAEGER: JULIA FRAKES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); WRITERS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); COSMETICS (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (55%); CATE BLANCHETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) AFRICA (90%); BOTSWANA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



390 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2053 words

HEADLINE: Big on CampusBig Blog on Campus

BYLINE: By PAMELA PAUL. 
Pamela Paul is an editor in The Times Book Review.

 BODY:
COLLEGE campuses have always had their boldface names: professors who've logged time in a White House cabinet, opined on ''PBS NewsHour'' or written Pulitzer Prize-winning best sellers. To this venerated lot we can add the academic blogger. A remarkable variety of scholars have achieved blogosphere fame, particularly those devoted to subjects related to the public sphere -- politics, economics, legal affairs. Law school bloggers are practically their own category.
''I think a lot of us have a desire to catch the issue of the day and put a personal stamp on it, and we're in a good position to do so,'' says Ann Alt/house, who teaches at the University of Wisconsin Law School and whose eponymous blog (tagline: Don't you love Althouse?) is often one of Technorati's Top 25. Being able to connect with ''the real world'' is another potent lure. ''In academia, you talk to a fairly small group of people and become insulated from real criticism,'' says Professor Althouse, who regularly ruffles feathers on her blog. ''Of course, not everyone wants to do that because their ideas will be ripped and pulled apart.'' 
Online, professors are often highly political, deeply personal and, per the format's wont, downright snarky in ways they are not in the classroom. Some academic blogs are pure polemic; some are substantive and scholarly, bringing to the national conversation a bit of policy perspective grounded in actual research and expertise. Some speak to their students; most aim for the widest of audiences. What the below blogs share, for better or worse, is influence.
ALTHOUSE
Professor:Ann Althouse, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Law School
Bent:''I consider myself fairly moderate -- I even voted for Obama, though I'm perceived by people on the left as very right wing.''
Sample: ''By the way, what is 'hands-on interdisciplinary study'? Do we get to fondle a sociologist?''
Ann Althouse enjoys courting controversy. Part of her appeal may be her willingness to tweak the left. She defended Glenn Beck's right to attack Frances Fox Piven, the left-wing City University of New York sociologist, and poked fun at the American Sociological Association.
When she first started blogging, other bloggers were taken aback: ''You're a law professor,'' they told her. ''You can't say that!''
Her Internet life and her academic life, however, occupy largely separate silos. ''I'm more vigorous, mocking and deliberately humorous online,'' she says. ''But I would never make fun of a student or tear one down.''
She adds: ''I don't have people coming up to me at the law school saying, 'Oh, that was an interesting post.' It seems silly but it's almost like they think they're reading a secret diary of mine and they're not supposed to talk about it.'' But, she says, ''I would like it if they did.''
Her offline and online worlds did intertwine, intimately and famously. After a flirtation with one of her commenters, a garden designer in Cincinnati, the two finally met face to face. They married in 2009.
INSTAPUNDIT
Professor:Glenn Reynolds, University of Tennessee College of Law
Bent: ''I used to be a card-carrying libertarian. Now I'm a libertarian transhumanist.''
Sample:''I think preparing for climate-change apocalypse is just one step shy of getting ready for the zombie hordes, but whatever.''
Founded in 2001, Instapundit is the apotheosis of academic blogs, the inspiration for many that have followed. Professor Reynolds is still surprised: ''I get e-mails from people who I think of as much bigger deals than me, and they're trying to get attention by having me link to something on my blog.'' He describes his readers as ''people on Capitol Hill,'' ''technogeeks'' and ''a truck driver who e-mails me regularly from the road.''
While the blog gets up to 14 million page visits a month, it is also a ''thought leader'' in social networking circles, as measured by klout.com. Instapundit actually reads more like Twitter feed than academic discourse, with a relentlessly updated selection of links to sites and news bytes that Professor Reynolds agrees with, disagrees with or despises. Expect pithy annotation to links, including jabs at the culture and President Obama and defense of the Tea Party. One regular item, ''Higher Education Bubble Update,'' critiques academia.
''Prior to blogging, I was an inveterate letter-to-the-editor writer,'' says Professor Reynolds, who teaches Internet law. One dean told him he considered the blog to be scholarship. ''His theory was that experimenting with a new form of communication was a kind of research,'' he recalls, ''which I thought was uncommonly generous.''
THE VOLOKH CONSPIRACY
Professors:Eugene Volokh, University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law, and various others
Bent: ''Libertarianish conservative or conservativish libertarian.''
Sample:''This time they are pro-Israel thugs as opposed to extremist Muslim thugs (and various other thugs), but thugs are thugs.''
''I was a loyal reader of Instapundit,'' Professor Volokh says. ''I had co-written an article with Reynolds and would e-mail him various story suggestions and eventually he said, 'Get your own blog!' '' Professor Volokh not only started his own blog, he also recruited his brother Sasha, a professor at Emory Law School, and 17 others through ''a closely guarded selection process.''
Focused on free speech, gun rights and constitutional law -- with the occasional personal digression, favorite recipe or discourse on a popular song thrown in -- the Volokh Conspiracy is fairly consistent in its libertarian point of view. (One recent posting -- a court decision that air pistols are not arms under the Second Amendment -- happened to land next to an advertisement for a video game that featured a buxom mercenary holding a semiautomatic.)
The blog routinely figures in Technorati's Top 100, and is among the most cited of the many legal blogs out there. The best part, Professor Volokh says, is exposing the public to legal experts not otherwise accessible. And ''it's just fun. I blog a joke and feel the reward of reading, 'That's a funny thing Volokh said.' ''
CROOKED TIMBER
Professors:Various
Bent: ''Social Democratic leaning'' (says Kieran Healy).
Sample:''I guess if you use fake facts it's easier to write editorials in favor of unlimited and unaccountable state power to detain U.S. citizens'' (writes Henry Farrell).
Crooked Timber is sometimes considered the liberal equivalent of the Volokh Conspiracy (during Crooked Timber's first few years, back-and-forths between the two sites would often brew). But it's heavy on philosophers and social scientists -- with not a law professor among the 17 regular contributors. And, emphasizes Dr. Healy, a professor of sociology at Duke, ''There's not a party line here. We're really a loose affiliation of people who like to read each other's stuff.'' Many of the bloggers have never even met.
The blog's title stems from the Kant quotation ''Out of the crooked timber of humanity no straight thing was ever made,'' and it has built a reputation as an intellectual global powerhouse, with members from the University of Bristol, University of Rotterdam and National University of Singapore. Others: Michael Berube, professor of literature at Penn State; Henry Farrell, professor of political science and international affairs at George Washington University; and Eszter Hargittai, professor of communications at Northwestern.
''On lots of other blogs, you have people going off on rants,'' Dr. Hargittai says. ''But we have experts in different fields, so you get an expert perspective on a wide range of topics, which is pretty exciting. The people here think about these topics for a living.''
GREG MANKIW'S BLOG
Professor:N. Gregory Mankiw, economics, Harvard
Bent: ''Slightly right-of-center mainstream.''
Sample:''Chapter 7 of my favorite textbook has a case study about whether there should be a market for kidneys. A similar issue is now making its way through the U.S. court system.''
Dr. Mankiw's blog has a professorial feel, alternating chatty bits on macroeconomics with advice for first-year students, suggestions for class discussions and links to textbooks he likes.
The site evolved from the mass e-mails he was sending to point his students to interesting articles. ''By and large, they enjoyed it, though some thought it was information overload,'' Dr. Mankiw says. But most were eager to read anything they could get their hands on by Professor Mankiw.
Even before he turned to blogging, Dr. Mankiw was a star at Harvard. He has bobbed in and out of politics, and was chairman of George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. He writes economics columns for the New York Times business pages and is author of a widely used textbook.
Expanding to a blog platform, which he did four years ago, seemed logical. ''It helps my students, it helps textbook sales, my publisher loves it,'' he says. ''I try to keep politics out of my textbooks. But whenever I have an opinion I want to get off my chest, the blog is a great way to express it.''
INFORMED COMMENT
Professor:Juan Cole, history, University of Michigan
Bent: ''Left of center, politically.''
Sample: ''An Arab country with neither secret police nor censorship is unprecedented in recent decades.''
Professor Cole began blogging in response to Sept. 11. ''As a Middle East expert who had lived for a long time in the Middle East, South Asia and Pakistan and who worked for years at a newspaper in Beirut, I had a lot of things to say and a lot of people had questions,'' he says. ''If somebody wanted to know about the context of Al Qaeda, I could answer.''
But the architecture of e-mail was unreasonably onerous, and thus, the blog evolved. At first, it was merely an archive of his old e-mails, which students would regularly request. Then he'd see an interesting Arabic-language newspaper article and paraphrase it on the site. With the war on Iraq, his writing, readership and public profile exploded. ''A lot of students take my class because they've seen me on 'Colbert,' '' he says.
Academics are uniquely positioned as bloggers, Dr. Cole believes. ''People value the information and analysis more than my stray opinions,'' he says. ''I present information that I can dig out because of my academic expertise, language knowledge and cultural knowledge that's not present in other news reporting.''
While he strives for a neutral tone in the classroom, online ''you do let your flag fly,'' he says. ''Good blogging involves attitude and snark.''
THE BECKER-POSNER BLOG
Professors:Gary S. Becker, economics and sociology, University of Chicago Graduate School of Business; Richard A. Posner, University of Chicago Law School
Bent:''Relatively small government -- private sector is preferable over public sector solutions'' (says Dr. Becker).
Sample:''The right to bargain collectively should be available to government workers. Yet since these workers face only limited competition from the private sector they should not have the monopoly power that comes with the right to strike. Regrettably, many government unions do have this option'' (writes Dr. Becker).
In 2004, after 19 years as a BusinessWeek columnist, Professor Becker hung up his print hat and asked his longtime friend Richard Posner -- a federal judge and author of more than 40 books -- to join him on a blog. ''We would be free of copy editors,'' Dr. Becker says. ''We wouldn't have a strict length restriction, we could write about what we want.''
Defying the somewhat loose definition of a blog -- an online journal obsessively updated -- Becker-Posner offers one post from each professor a week. ''I hope to analyze a problem using good economic sense and relevant data, but a lot less formally and with a lot less math'' than in a lecture, Dr. Becker says.
Much of their current discussions concern the faltering economy, but they will digress to ask whether women's earning power will surpass men's or to analyze the relationship between Catholicism and contraception.
''I've heard from parents who read it that the blog is one of the reasons they want their children to come to the University of Chicago,'' Dr. Becker says, echoing other professors who blog.
Dr. Becker returns the compliment to his readers. ''I always look at the comments,'' he says. ''Sometimes, they make points I wish I had made myself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEPHEN MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED20)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRADLEY C. BOWER/BLOOMBERG
LIN JONES
 REUTERS/PHIL MCCARTEN) (ED21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



391 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; MAIN COURSE CHRISTINE BARANSKI; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words

PERSON: Christine Baranski 

HEADLINE: 'I Was Never Beautiful'

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
CHRISTINE BARANSKI arrived at Michael's, the media hangout on West 55th Street, at 12:30 p.m. on the dot. A somewhat later arrival would have guaranteed an entrance, a gust of warm curiosity, but as she passed the empty tables at the front, the few patrons nosing their menus, I realized, or perhaps remembered, that such impromptu moments were best not left to chance. I should have reserved for 1 p.m.
Apparently, though, Ms. Baranski didn't feel the need to contrive scenes, least of all small ones. Occasionally, over the next three hours, her voice hit a haughty key -- Diane Lockhart in ''The Good Wife'' raising a triumphant glass of Scotch -- but this was to be expected and savored, like Gilda's hair. She had on a sparkling cream dress (Saint Laurent, she revealed), with a necklace of gold chains, and her own lustrous mane looked freshly washed. She asked for my portion of bacon on her Cobb salad, which eventually she consented to have wrapped (''I feel guilty'') and a cup of coffee, followed by a cappuccino (''for dessert''). 
Between 12:30 and 3:15, when we left the table and Ms. Baranski automatically put on her dark glasses and we walked leisurely up Fifth Avenue to 68th Street, where we said goodbye, she gave the impression that she had nothing better to do. The dark glasses startlingly brought her celebrity to life and deflected a dozen stares outside Bergdorf's, but during lunch I don't think she noticed that the news mavens Barbara Walters and Arianna Huffington were seated two tables away, nor they the actress.
Of course, that is how it should be. Who cares, right? Yet she observed something about New York that threw a different light on all those confident people. Although her remark was made about another occasion -- a recent cocktail party Ms. Baranski attended at the Time Warner building, where many literary stars and journalists were present -- it seemed a valid comment about the cultural shifts taking place, when the world you know is suddenly not the world you possess.
We had been talking in a meandering way about careers and marriage. For 27 years Ms. Baranski, who is 58, has been married to the actor Matthew Cowles, the black sheep member of a family with ties to Cowles publishing and Drexel banking who has made a respectable living playing bad guys and white-trash types, beginning with a small part in ''Midnight Cowboy.'' ''He's the one you should be interviewing,'' Ms. Baranski said.
I asked her how they met. ''We did an Ibsen play in Garden City, Long Island,'' she said. ''And he asked me if I wanted to ride home on his motorcycle one night. He was this shaggy blond-haired guy who smoked unfiltered Mexican cigarettes. He was really exotic. I was in my early 30s. He loved riding around lower Manhattan -- back when SoHo was a little dark. Anyhow, that's how our romance began. We lived in a few funky lofts downtown. I was doing 'Midsummer Night's Dream' in Central Park. That's the first role I played in New York that got some real recognition.'' In fact, Mel Gussow, in his review in The New York Times, raved that her Helena was the show's ''single stylish performance.''
That was 1982. Eventually the couple moved to Litchfield, Conn., where Mr. Cowles's family had an old homestead, so they could raise their two young daughters with fewer hassles. For several years in the mid-'90s, when she was playing the mouthy Maryann in the sitcom ''Cybill,'' Ms. Baranski commuted to Los Angeles, while Mr. Cowles stayed home. Today, their daughter Isabel Cowles, 26, is a law student, and her sister Lily, 23, is doing graduate work in anthropology at Oxford.
I said, knowing the answer, ''They didn't want to follow their parents into acting?''
Ms. Baranski looked at me and then toward the busy room of diners, her ski-bump nose coming into sharper view. ''I almost consider that an achievement, I must tell you,'' she purred in her Juilliard-trained voice.
All this talk about former haunts led Ms. Baranski to observe: ''We're kind of all over-stylized. Did you read the Patti Smith book?'' She meant ''Just Kids,'' Ms. Smith's memoir of the '70s and '80s. ''God, I loved that.'' She then mentioned the Fran Lebowitz documentary -- had I seen it? ''Well, she talks about how New York of the '70s belonged to artists and intellectuals and people coming with big dreams. Now it's for people with money and tourists.''
Still in this vein, I told her I'd picked up the recent New York magazine issue about apartments, with a touching piece by Gay Talese.
Ms. Baranski grinned. ''I was standing behind Gay Talese last week. I was at a screening of the Jerry Weintraub movie. We were up in the Time Warner building, with that beautiful view. I was standing behind Gay Talese, who was waiting to get his martini. I thought, This is such a New York moment. Everybody dressed in black.''
She paused, brooding. ''The city kind of doesn't belong to them anymore.''
''Oh?'' I said, interested.
''Don't quote me on it,'' she said, in a higher key.
I preferred to -- it was innocuous enough. And, anyway, she can't be the only person to have this thought. She had begun our conversation by saying, ''I got here in 1970,'' simple enough words for a girl of Polish descent from Buffalo, but words uttered by a million people with similar dreams and sweltering apartments and, like her, scholarships to prestigious schools. She delighted in recalling how she received $1,000 for being ''the most hard-working economically needy student'' in her Juilliard class, with the expectation that it was to be used for living expenses in the coming term. ''And of course I took that money and was at the passport office the next morning,'' she said with a laugh. ''I was actually able to go to Europe for two months. I remember 10 days in Paris at the cheapest hotel.'' Ms. Baranski sighed. ''I just felt such a sense of pride that I did that. I was 19. And I did it alone.''
Yet in another way, Ms. Baranski seems uniquely positioned to comment on fame. Her career has had a strange imperishability without ever really ripening. Not only is she in a hit television show, ''The Good Wife'' on CBS, but she is also playing a dramatic role, after years of doing comedy and musical comedy. As Ms. Baranski herself once noted, she seems in a perpetual state of being ''discovered.''
This first time was legitimate -- as Shakespeare's Helena. Then, in 1995, at the age of 42, with two Tonys, Ms. Baranski took the plunge into sitcoms, finding a new audience with ''Cybill.'' Fans reacted to her deadpan and taste for fashion as if she had buzzed down from Mars, one writing, ''Who are you? Where did you come from?'' ''Cybill'' led to Mike Nichols's hiring her for ''The Birdcage,'' the 1996 film in which many people first discovered her charms. The following year, Ben Brantley of The Times opened his review of ''Promises, Promises,'' a revival that turned on her performance, with a plea: ''Christine Baranski, come home!''
When she got the role in ''The Good Wife'' shortly after finishing ''Boeing-Boeing'' on Broadway, she said the drama's creators, Robert and Michelle King, didn't ask her to read for the part of Diane Lockhart. But she heard that the pilot's director had some reservations. ''He didn't know my work,'' she said. So she decided to meet them in Los Angeles. She was going anyway because her friend Chuck Lorre, the creator of ''Cybill,'' was getting a star on the Walk of Fame.
''On my way back to the L.A. airport -- I love stories like this,'' Ms. Baranski said, her eyes shining. ''Literally the car was waiting. I went in and met Robert and Michelle. David Zucker, the producer, was there. And I had a great meeting. We talked, and two days later I got the job.''
Although it's Alicia, Julianna Margulies's character, who carries the show, Diane has emerged as its surprising moral center -- tough, liberal, flawed but essentially principled -- and with a sexy boyfriend to boot. The sporadic appearances of the gun-toting, conservative Kurt -- who lately suggested that Diane chuck her career and come away with him -- have taken some of the cling out of her Dolces, to the delight of middle-aged fans.
''I know!'' Ms. Baranski exclaimed. ''How cool is it that the writers gave me a love interest. I can't tell you how many women come up to me and say how cool it is that it's the woman who says, 'My job is too important right now.' I love it!''
By 3 p.m., the restaurant was virtually deserted. Ms. Baranski, who is usually on the set two or three days a week, didn't seem in a hurry. I asked about her weekend plans. ''Oh, spring cleaning,'' she said happily. Of course, we discussed clothes -- Ms. Baranski, who has a great figure, told me she flew to Paris last summer just to see the Saint Laurent retrospective. But I was more curious to know what she thought of her looks. Not being a beautiful woman, she has had to keep people interested in other ways.
Ms. Baranski agreed. ''I attribute the longevity of my career to the fact I didn't have to carry that mantle. I was never beautiful so I'm not unbeautiful. I may not have been a leading lady, but I had great clothes and funny lines. I think I had more flexibility.''
The next day, Ms. Baranski sent me an e-mail thanking me for lunch. The note began with a line from Tom Stoppard's play ''The Real Thing,'' which earned her her first Tony -- ''Happiness is equilibrium... shift your weight.'' She thought that she and her husband had done a lot of weight-shifting in the last 27 years. The missive ended with Ms. Baranski noting that her jaunt to Paris last summer was ''my first solo trip to Europe since that adventure at the age of 19 ... in the words of Joni Mitchell, I was 'a free man in Paris.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VARIED ROLES: Christine Baranski with, from far left, Dianne Wiest and Hank Azaria in ''The Birdcage''
Julianna Margulies in ''The Good Wife''
and her husband, Matthew Cowles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVERETT COLLECTION
DAVID M. RUSSELL/CBS
 BEN HIDER/GETTY IMAGES)(ST8-ST9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ISABEL KLETT)(ST1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (78%); MARRIAGE (74%); WRITERS (65%)

ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (50%); BARBARA WALTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

CATEGORY: Popular Entertainers

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



392 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3429 words

HEADLINE: The B-SCHOOL BLAHS

BYLINE: By DAVID GLENN. 
David Glenn is a senior writer for The Chronicle covering teaching and curriculum.

 BODY:
This article is a collaboration between The New York Times and The Chronicle of Higher Education, a daily source of news, opinion and commentary for professors, administrators and others interested in academe. David Glenn is a senior writer at The Chronicle covering teaching and curriculum.
PAUL M. MASON does not give his business students the same exams he gave 10 or 15 years ago. ''Not many of them would pass,'' he says.
Dr. Mason, who teaches economics at the University of North Florida, believes his students are just as intelligent as they've always been. But many of them don't read their textbooks, or do much of anything else that their parents would have called studying. ''We used to complain that K-12 schools didn't hold students to high standards,'' he says with a sigh. ''And here we are doing the same thing ourselves.''
That might sound like a kids-these-days lament, but all evidence suggests that student disengagement is at its worst in Dr. Mason's domain: undergraduate business education. 
Business majors spend less time preparing for class than do students in any other broad field, according to the most recent National Survey of Student Engagement: nearly half of seniors majoring in business say they spend fewer than 11 hours a week studying outside class. In their new book ''Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses,'' the sociologists Richard Arum and Josipa Roksa report that business majors had the weakest gains during the first two years of college on a national test of writing and reasoning skills. And when business students take the GMAT, the entry examination for M.B.A. programs, they score lower than students in every other major.
This is not a small corner of academe. The family of majors under the business umbrella -- including finance, accounting, marketing, management and ''general business'' -- accounts for just over 20 percent, or more than 325,000, of all bachelor's degrees awarded annually in the United States, making it the most popular field of study.
Brand-name programs -- the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Notre Dame Mendoza College of Business, and a few dozen others -- are full of students pulling 70-hour weeks, if only to impress the elite finance and consulting firms they aspire to join. But get much below BusinessWeek's top 50, and you'll hear pervasive anxiety about student apathy, especially in ''soft'' fields like management and marketing, which account for the majority of business majors.
Scholars in the field point to three sources of trouble. First, as long ago as 1959, a Ford Foundation report warned that too many undergraduate business students chose their majors ''by default.'' Business programs also attract more than their share of students who approach college in purely instrumental terms, as a plausible path to a job, not out of curiosity about, say, Ronald Coase's theory of the firm.
''Business education has come to be defined in the minds of students as a place for developing elite social networks and getting access to corporate recruiters,'' says Rakesh Khurana, a professor at Harvard Business School who is a prominent critic of the field. It's an attitude that Dr. Khurana first saw in M.B.A. programs but has migrated, he says, to the undergraduate level.
Second, in management and marketing, no strong consensus has emerged about what students ought to learn or how they ought to learn it. And finally, with large student-faculty ratios and no lab equipment, business has historically been cheaper to operate than most departments. Cynics say many colleges are content.
''At the big public universities, the administrations need us to be credible, but I'm not sure that they need us to be very good,'' says J. David Hunger, a scholar-in-residence in the management program at the College of St. Benedict and St. John's University, in Collegeville, Minn. ''They need us to be cash cows.''
IN ''Academically Adrift,'' Dr. Arum and Dr. Roksa looked at the performance of students at 24 colleges and universities. At the beginning of freshman year and end of sophomore year, students in the study took the Collegiate Learning Assessment, a national essay test that assesses students' writing and reasoning skills. During those first two years of college, business students' scores improved less than any other group's. Communication, education and social-work majors had slightly better gains; humanities, social science, and science and engineering students saw much stronger improvement.
What accounts for those gaps? Dr. Arum and Dr. Roksa point to sheer time on task. Gains on the C.L.A. closely parallel the amount of time students reported spending on homework. Another explanation is the heavy prevalence of group assignments in business courses: the more time students spent studying in groups, the weaker their gains in the kinds of skills the C.L.A. measures.
Group assignments are a staple of management and marketing education. In dorm lounges and library basements around the country, small cells of 20-year-olds are analyzing why a company has succeeded or failed (Drexel University); team-writing 15-page digital marketing plans (James Madison University); or preparing 45-minute PowerPoint presentations on one of the three primary functions of management (Tulane University).
You can see the typical model in Angela D. Stanton's marketing research course at Radford University, a small public institution in southwestern Virginia. Radford students' SAT scores are close to the national median, and its proportion of business majors (19 percent) is also close to the national average. For the most part, the business program does not aspire to send anyone to Wall Street. Its graduates tend to find jobs at banks, insurance companies and government agencies in Virginia.
The charismatic Dr. Stanton peppers her lectures with anecdotes about her past work in the corporate world. In her marketing research class, she has parceled her students into teams of four or five, and over the semester those teams are expected to write a series of reports on college students' perceptions of online marketing.Students don't compose a complete paper of their own.
The project's first ''deliverable'' is to conduct and analyze a survey of nonbusiness students on campus, asking them questions like this: ''What does it say about a company or brand if they are not involved with social networking sites like Facebook or Twitter?''
The pedagogical theory is that managers need to function in groups, so a management education without such experiences would be like medical training without a residency. While some group projects are genuinely challenging, the consensus among students and professors is that they are one of the elements of business that make it easy to skate through college.
Donald R. Bacon, a business professor at the University of Denver, studied group projects at his institution and found a perverse dynamic: the groups that functioned most smoothly were often the ones where the least learning occurred. That's because students divided up the tasks in ways they felt comfortable with. The math whiz would do the statistical work, the English minor drafted the analysis. And then there's the most common complaint about groups: some shoulder all the work, the rest do nothing.
''I understand that teamwork is important, but in my opinion they need to do more to deal with the problem of slackers,'' says Justin Triplett, a 2010 Radford graduate who is completing his first year in Radford's M.B.A. program. From his perch as a teaching assistant, he estimates that a third of students in the business school don't engage with their schoolwork. At Radford, seniors in business invest on average 3.64 hours a week preparing for class, according to the National Survey of Student Engagement.
Jerry M. Kopf, a management professor at Radford, was a first-generation college student like many of his students. He grew up poor in Arkansas and dropped out of college before returning and completing school at age 30. So he has a tolerance, even an affinity, for students who have trouble finding their way.
And yet, when he talks about students who don't invest energy in his classes -- not a majority, he stresses, but a persistent minority -- Dr. Kopf's eyes go distant. ''We've got students who don't read, and grow up not reading,'' he says. ''There are too many other things competing for their time. The frequency and quantity of drinking keeps getting higher. We have issues with depression. Getting students alert and motivated -- even getting them to class, to be honest with you -- it's a challenge.''
One senior accounting major at Radford, who asked not to be named so as not to damage his job prospects, says he goes to class only to take tests or give presentations. ''A lot of classes I've been exposed to, you just go to class and they do the PowerPoint from the book,'' he says. ''It just seems kind of pointless to go when (a) you're probably not going to be paying much attention anyway and (b) it would probably be worth more of your time just to sit with your book and read it.''
How much time does he spend reading textbooks?
''Well, this week I don't have any tests, so probably zero,'' he says. ''Next week I'll have a test, so maybe 10 hours then.''
He adds: ''It seems like now, every take-home test you get, you can just go and Google. If the question is from a test bank, you can just type the text in, and somebody out there will have it and you can just use that.''
This is not senioritis, he says: this is the way all four years have been. In a typical day, ''I just play sports, maybe go to the gym. Eat. Probably drink a little bit. Just kind of goof around all day.'' He says his grade-point average is 3.3.
Faye Gilbert, dean of Radford's College of Business and Economics, has no doubt that most students in her program work hard, but she acknowledges that professors are concerned. A faculty committee recently established several dozen learning goals in each major -- and if classes need to be made tougher to make sure students meet those goals, that is what will happen, Dr. Gilbert says. ''Can they use a financial statement to make a decision? Can they use statistics to inform a decision? Can they -- which sounds deceptively simple -- define a problem? Can they look at an ethical dilemma from many perspectives and define the ethical and legal components of that problem? It's not easy to measure these things, but we're going to try.''
If one measures success by income, Radford's graduates fare decently. In a typical year, 65 percent had jobs three months after graduation, with a mean starting salary just above $40,000. On average nationally, business students enter the work force with higher starting salaries than humanities and social science majors. By mid-career, however, some of those liberal arts majors, including political science and philosophy majors, have closed the gap.
IN a dimly lighted classroom at Ohio University, a public institution of 17,245 undergraduates, 20 students are spending a long evening preparing for final exams. They've gravitated to this room because this is where they've spent the entire winter quarter, in what Ohio calls its ''cluster'' program -- one term of integrated courses that give fledgling business students an introduction to accounting, finance, management and marketing.
Tomorrow's final is in finance, and the students, mostly sophomores, are sweating over practice questions. (''If you invested some money in a fund seven years ago that offered a fixed 5.99 percent nominal interest rate with quarterly compounding . . .'')
''I know this is going to be tricky, but I think I've learned from the mistakes I made on the last finance test,'' says Adrianna Berry, a junior who started out in marketing but added a second, more challenging major -- management information systems -- after an injury forced her from the swim team. In contrast to finance, she says, the marketing final she took earlier in the week consisted mostly of multiple-choice questions that had already appeared on previous tests this quarter. For the management final, students could bring a cheat sheet. Ms. Berry's sheet, in tiny multicolored script, is a thing of beauty: the five-factor model of personality. Bounded rationality. Anchoring bias. Distributive versus procedural theories of fairness.
It is near-universal student folklore that accounting and finance are where the hard work happens. Accounting majors write cash-flow statements and conduct audits. Finance majors learn how to design investment portfolios and (one hopes) how not to destroy the global economy with collateralized debt obligations.
For a career-oriented major, management strikes many business educators as too theoretical and amorphous -- a potpourri of psychology, economics, game theory, ethics and international relations.
Walk down the hall from Ms. Berry's classroom to Ohio's equity-management club, which is dominated by finance majors, and you'll hear complaints that management courses are irrelevant to the real world. One recent class asked groups to write short papers on the theories of leadership exemplified in the movie ''Apollo 13.''
Ohio's business dean, Hugh Sherman, says that some of the most important learning in his program happens outside the classroom. The equity-management club oversees more than a million dollars of university investments. The business school's best marketing students are invited to join a sales team that competes nationally. Both clubs engage students for many hours each week, with no course credit involved. Dr. Sherman concedes, however, that some students go through his business school without such experiences. In particular, it has been hard to devise projects for management majors. Partly for that reason, Ohio's business school has begun to strongly encourage management students to double-major in a field with more currency in the job market, like finance or information systems.
Some believe it is a mistake to fetishize job preparation and the ''rigor'' of fields like accounting and finance. Those departments might demand more hours from their students, but they don't necessarily provide well-rounded educations, says Henry Mintzberg, a professor at McGill University in Montreal who is a dogged critic of traditional business programs. He says it is a ''travesty'' to offer vocational fields like finance or marketing to 18-year-olds. Instead, he supports a humanistic, multidisciplinary model of management education. The diversity of topics reflected on Adrianna Berry's cheat sheet is a feature, not a bug, he says.
''The object of undergraduate business education is to educate people, not to give them a lot of functional business stuff.''
A coming report from the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching praises 10 American colleges of business as models for integrating the liberal arts and practical training.
One of the institutions praised is Babson College, a business school in Massachusetts. Its president, Leonard A. Schlesinger, says that concrete business skills tend to expire in five years or so as technology and organizations change. History and philosophy, on the other hand, provide the kind of contextual knowledge and reasoning skills that are indispensable for business students.
''If we didn't provide that kind of timeless knowledge to our students, we would be providing a seriously inadequate education,'' Dr. Schlesinger says. At the same time, Babson requires an ambitious practicum experience. In groups of 30, first-year Babson students plan and create actual small businesses, with real money at stake. Last spring's businesses sold flip-flops, speakers and chocolates. Any profits at the end of the year are donated to charity.
''We take student teams through the entire cycle from idea creation to business creation to business dissolution,'' Dr. Schlesinger says. ''For some students, they confront all sorts of things about their interactions with others and about themselves. They learn things that shape the way they attack the world when they get out of here.''
In the University of Virginia's business school, which is often ranked in the top five, students spend the entire junior year in integrated, team-taught courses with as many as three instructors in the classroom at once.
On a recent morning, a strategy professor led 40 students through a case study of the missteps that led to Arthur Andersen's debacles a decade ago with Enron and WorldCom. When it came time to discuss the details of the accounting fraud, she handed the baton to a colleague who is an accounting professor.
The students in the room know they'll be grilled on each day's case study. And when they hand in papers, they're marked up twice: once for content by a professor with specialized expertise, and once for writing quality by a business-communication professor.
Most business schools can only look on with envy. Virginia's integrated course system is possible because the business school is swimming in money, thanks in part to a series of corporate sponsorships (the first page of this course's syllabus carries a Rolls-Royce logo). But even with abundant resources, it was a challenge to persuade faculty members to do team teaching, according to the dean, Carl P. Zeithaml. Few instructors wanted to lose control of their syllabuses or lectures. Only after a trial period did the full faculty approve the design.
Many schools are groping their way toward experiments like those at Virginia and Babson, prodded in part by new accreditation requirements. Since 2003, the more prestigious business accreditor, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, has expected departments to set learning objectives and to adjust their curriculums to help students reach them. But the association has given colleges broad latitude to define and measure objectives, which are often vague (Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio, for one, has chosen this management-concept goal: ''Students will be able to understand the complexities of decision making'').
To Dr. Mason of North Florida, such efforts are also fighting upstream against the tendency to dumb down courses. Along with two colleagues, he developed a game-theory model of the ''market'' for courses. The model predicts that, over time, courses will inexorably become easier as students (even the conscientious ones) choose courses where they can expect higher grades, and professors (even the most dedicated) turn to strategies that they expect will improve their student evaluations.
It's a simplified model -- it assumes students are motivated only by grades and instructors by evaluations. But Dr. Mason believes it offers a fair approximation of reality. In a 2003 paper in the Economics of Education Review, he buttressed that model with a national survey of 259 business professors who had been teaching for at least 10 years. On average, respondents said they had reduced the math and analytic-thinking requirements in their courses. In exchange, they had increased the number of requirements related to computer skills and group presentations.
Dr. Mason says that without some kind of hard constraint -- like the licensure tests that accounting and finance students must face -- courses inexorably become less rigorous.
And what about employers? What do they want?
According to national surveys, they want to hire 22-year-olds who can write coherently, think creatively and analyze quantitative data, and they're perfectly happy to hire English or biology majors. Most Ivy League universities and elite liberal arts colleges, in fact, don't even offer undergraduate business majors.
J. David Hunger, the St. John's fellow, wrote a monograph about the travails of undergraduate business education back in 1978. He has never quite resolved his ambivalent feelings about the field. ''At some times in my life, I've argued that we don't really need a business major,'' he says.
That's not to suggest that Dr. Hunger isn't gung-ho about business education. ''We should have a business minor that would be offered to everybody, or even required,'' he says. ''But I realize now that that's not going to happen. Students are demanding these majors, and we have to learn how to do them right.''
This article is a collaboration between The New York Times and The Chronicle of Higher Education (chronicle.com), a daily source of news, opinion and commentary for professors, administrators and others interested in academe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NAP TIME: Anxiety is pervasive about apathy among business majors. Above, a management class at Radford University in Virginia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIELLE RETTING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CRIB SHEET: For a management final at Ohio University, one page of notes is allowed. Adrianna Berry, a junior, made the most of it. (ED16)
TEAMWORK: University of Virginia courses are integrated to capitalize on expertise. William J. Kehoe teaches strategic issues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VANESSA VICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
GROUP THINK: Team assignments are a business-school staple. In her market research class at Radford, Angela Stanton guides a group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIELLE RETTING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED18-ED19) CHARTS: Today's Business Major: Options, Investment and Futures: More undergraduates major in business than any other field -- one in five of all degrees awarded in the United States. The students, though, fall behind other majors on assessments of writing, reasoning and quantitative skills. (Sources: National Center for Education Statistics (degrees)
National Survey of Student Engagement (studying)
adapted from ''Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses'' by Richard Arum and Josipa Roksa (learning)
 Graduate Management Admission Council) (ED17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CURRICULA (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); WRITERS (72%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); FOUNDATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



393 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Moscow's Drinking Problem

BYLINE: By MARK LAWRENCE SCHRAD. 
Mark Lawrence Schrad, an assistant professor of political science at Villanova University, is the author of ''The Political Power of Bad Ideas: Networks, Institutions and the Global Prohibition Wave.''

 BODY:
Villanova, Pa.
IN an effort to reduce both its sky-high alcoholism rate and its budget gap, Russia recently announced plans to quadruple the tax on the country's eternal vice, vodka, over the next three years.
But while the move might be well intentioned, the long history of liquor taxation in Russia exposes a critical obstacle in the path of any anti-drinking campaign: the Kremlin's own addiction to liquor revenues, which has derailed every previous effort to wean Russians from their tipple.
Russians consume about 18 liters of pure alcohol per person a year, more than twice the internationally recommended limit, a rate that President Dmitri A. Medvedev has called a ''natural disaster.'' Thanks in part to lifelong heavy drinking, the life expectancy for the average Russian man is now about 60 years, just below that of Haiti. Alcohol poisoning alone kills 40,000 Russians a year (compared with about 300 in the United States), and alcohol plays a role in more than half of all premature deaths. 
Rampant alcoholism is nothing new, and Russian governments since the Middle Ages have introduced liquor taxes to reduce drinking rates.
But in almost every case, the public-health goal has been undermined by the state's efforts to increase tax revenue. In Russia, the demand for vodka persists even when prices go up, so the state has an ever-present temptation to raise taxes and fill the treasury under the political cloak of making vodka more dear. Yet government after government has taken the following step of then promoting drinking to produce more revenue.
In 1591, for example, the English ambassador Giles Fletcher lamented that Ivan the Terrible encouraged his subjects to drink their last kopecks away in state-owned taverns where ''none may call them forth whatsoever cause there be, because he hindereth the emperor's revenue.''
Later, the ideological godfather of the Russian Revolution, Nikolai Chernyshevsky, denounced the state's abdication of its responsibilities of ''promoting national honor, the moral welfare of the nation, justice and fairness,'' all of which he argued had been sacrificed to a system of hefty vodka taxes. ''The only reason for its existence is monetary,'' he complained. ''Its sole purpose and concern is money, money, money.''
Though he was exiled to Siberia for this sort of criticism, Chernyshevsky's argument was sustained by his revolutionary disciple, Lenin, who banned vodka during the early years of the Soviet Union.
But the siren song of liquor-tax revenue proved too tempting for Stalin, who lifted the ban to support the communist autocracy. ''What is better, the yoke of foreign capitalism, or the sale of vodka?'' he said. ''Naturally, we will opt for vodka.''
Vodka revenues even played a role in the collapse of the Soviet state. In 1985, Mikhail S. Gorbachev restricted vodka sales to get Russian workers back to the assembly line; because vodka taxes provided a full quarter of the entire Soviet budget, the result was a substantial drop in government revenues. The Kremlin tried to patch the budget hole by printing more money, which worsened the hyperinflation that hastened the downfall of the communist state.
To his credit, Mr. Medvedev seems to grasp the pitfalls of trying to tax an entrenched culture of drinking out of existence, and he favors incremental, realistic policies like public-service messages and advertising restrictions rather than the bombastic and often hollow policy pronouncements of his predecessors.
Yet the proposed quadrupling of vodka taxes now threatens to undo this gradual progress, and return to not only the autocratic timbre of policymaking, but also the traditional harnessing of state finances to the vodka bottle. It will be hard to avoid the allure of maintaining, or even increasing, the estimated $11.2 billion in extra revenue that the proposed taxes will bring in.
Is the Kremlin poised to again stumble into this eternal liquor trap? It definitely seems so: in the fall of 2010 Russia's finance minister, Aleksei L. Kudrin, told reporters that the best thing that his fellow citizens could do to help the country's flaccid national economy was to smoke and drink more, thereby paying more in taxes.
''Those who drink,'' Mr. Kudrin said, ''are giving more to help solve social problems such as boosting demographics, developing other social services and upholding birth rates.''
Not only will the government be tempted to dial back its anti-drinking campaigns to preserve its liquor tax revenues, but the higher prices for legal alcohol -- from about $3.50 for a half-liter bottle today to $14 -- will, if experience holds true, drive Russians to drink dangerous and unregulated homebrews, as well as poisonous surrogates like eau de cologne, shoe polish and even jet fuel. Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin recently based his opposition to the tax increase on precisely these past lessons.
Yet if Mr. Putin and Mr. Medvedev are to invoke the lessons of the past in dealing with Russia's alcohol epidemic, they need to look more broadly at the dubious historical role of alcohol as a pillar of state finance. The only real solutions entail significant increases in public-health spending, rehabilitation programs, youth awareness campaigns and stricter advertising limits, as well as incremental rather than radical changes to pricing and availability.
Even then, the problem will take decades to solve. Most important, the Kremlin should take the first step to its own recovery and admit that it too has an alcohol problem, and not make the health of Russian finances dependent on the misery of its people.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKEL JASO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); POISONINGS (75%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); HAITI (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



394 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; VENTURE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2061 words

HEADLINE: The Ruler of the Cosmos

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
As a theme for a downtown party, a salute to late-'70s American professional soccer sounds a little on the you've-got-to-be-kidding side. But anyone who walked into Openhouse Gallery in NoLIta one rainy night in mid-February would have seen a young crowd in a huge room celebrating the New York Cosmos, the long-defunct team that briefly turned the world's most popular sport into a glamorous New York fad.
In the back of the gallery, on a riser, a D.J. remixed pop classics like Eddy Grant's ''Electric Avenue'' while a grainy film loop of Cosmos triumphs played on a wall. The food could be described as haute stadium -- miniature hot dogs topped with sesame pickled-red-cabbage slaw. Propped up around the room were vintage trophies and photos of Pele, Brazil's beloved superstar, and Giorgio Chinaglia, Italy's egomaniacal striker, who together in 1977 helped the squad win one of its five championships in the North American Soccer League. 
''We're very, very privileged that we've got the original Cosmos superstar striker here tonight,'' Paul Kemsley, an impish 43-year-old Briton in a dark suit, said into a microphone. ''Giorgio Chinaglia, here tonight!'' The audience cheered as Chinaglia, now a hulking 64-year-old with a hangdog smile, nodded slightly. ''We've also got the original Cosmos goalie, Shep Messing, here tonight!'' More cheers, more nods. Then Kemsley wrapped it up.
''Thanks so much for coming,'' he said, turning serious. ''We hope you get it. It's gonna be huge. Support us. The Cosmos are back.''
Hang on /-- the team that gave Americans their first taste of soccermania, once packing Giants Stadium with more than 77,000 fans? That rum band of night prowlers with their own table at Studio 54 and Hollywood hangers-on? The franchise that vanished not long after Steve Ross, the head of Warner Communications, decided that pro soccer had no future? Those Cosmos are back?
Certainly the brand is back. Amid all the team memorabilia on display at that February party were plenty of crisp new Cosmos shirts, shorts and warm-ups, part of a recently unveiled line of clothing from Umbro, the English company that co-sponsored the shindig.
But Kemsley's ambitions far exceed retro sportswear. A former real estate mogul who flamed out spectacularly in England when the recession struck, he is now chairman of the Cosmos, whose rights he bought recently. Since then, the team has been his all-consuming passion; he talks about building a stadium as well as Cosmos-related restaurants and hotels in New York City. He predicts that he and Umbro will sell a fortune's worth of shirts in Europe and Asia. He has a staff of 16 already (including an executive named Terry Byrne, a close friend and former manager of David Beckham's). He is touring the world to spread news of a second coming.
''I'm going to Singapore, to a dinner with the president,'' Kemsley told me a week before the party. ''The whole thing is just sick, do you know what I mean?''
For now, Kemsley is missing just two essentials: players and a league to play in. Players are easy; they can be bought. Breaking into Major League Soccer is trickier. Now in its 16th season, the country's biggest professional soccer league will soon sell off rights to its 20th team, which Commissioner Don Garber has earmarked for New York City. The hope is to start a local rivalry with the New York Red Bulls, who play in Harrison, N.J.
The winning bidder for the 20th franchise will have to fork over as much as $100 million, Garber says, and have enough left over to build a stadium in the city. As important, prospective owners need to buy into the league's modus operandi. ''We need good owners, good stadiums, good marketing, serious guys who can be serious about the sport,'' Garber says. ''The Cosmos haven't lived for 30 years. And unless it's relaunched the right way, it won't be successful.''
''Bless Don,'' Kemsley said one afternoon not long ago, sounding like one of those charming rogues in a Guy Ritchie film. ''I accept it's not a done deal. But he's got to give me that franchise.''
The Cosmos were the brainchild of Ahmet and Nesuhi Ertegun, Turkish-born brothers and executives at Atlantic Records, a division of Warner Communications. In 1971, the Cosmos joined the struggling N.A.S.L. and initially played their games in dingy little stadiums. Then Ross, a natural-born impresario, decided in 1975 that what ailed the team could be cured by the biggest celebrity in the sport. So he coaxed Pele out of retirement and into a Cosmos jersey with a multiyear contract that paid more than $1 million annually. At the time, the highest-paid athlete in baseball, Hank Aaron, earned $200,000 per season.
Pele was introduced to Manhattan at a media-mobbed 21 Club on June 10, 1975. He was soon followed by the arrivals of Chinaglia and Franz Beckenbauer, a soft-spoken defender who captained West Germany to a World Cup championship in 1974. The Cosmos started drawing huge crowds to Giants Stadium, and during a summer best remembered for a blackout and the Son of Sam murders, the team was a gorgeous diversion. Mick Jagger showed up in the locker room. Liza Minnelli, Grace Jones, Andy Warhol and Bjorn Borg hovered around the team at Studio 54.
But when Pele departed after the 1977 season, the buzz vanished. When the 1986 World Cup was awarded to Mexico rather than to the United States, the league was doomed. As players, coaches and executives scattered for the exits, nobody except for a former teacher named Peppe Pinton saw much value in anything Cosmos-related.
Pinton, who was Chinaglia's personal assistant, gathered up what was left of the Cosmos -- the gear, the trophies -- and loaded it all into a storage facility. For years, he kept the trademark alive by running Cosmos-branded training camps for kids and by suing anyone who tried to exploit the Cosmos name. (By selling T-shirts, for instance.) ''I spent $800,000 to $900,000 in legal fees over the years,'' says Pinton, now 64 and the owner of a restaurant in Tappan, N.Y. For years, he looked and waited for a buyer who shared his particular fervor.
''I love the man,'' Kemsley says, ''but he drove me absolutely mad.''
Kemsley heard about Pinton from a prospective tenant at a building Kemsley owned in Manhattan. A year of sometimes agonizing negotiations ensued. ''Because Peppe kept changing the terms,'' Kemsley says, with a trace of lingering exasperation. ''The moment he signed the deal was the moment I thought it would happen.''
Kemsley's first move was to empty out those Cosmos storage bins. ''It was like Aladdin's cave,'' he recalls. ''Box upon box upon box. Peppe had kept everything'' -- including the formal blazers that players wore when traveling. ''We were pulling girls' phone numbers out of the breast pockets of these jackets,'' Kemsley says. ''I even called one of them.''
Today the trophies are on display in the Cosmos' office in SoHo. Kemsley himself has moved from London into a five-bedroom apartment on the 75th floor of the Time Warner Center that reportedly rents for $57,500 a month.
When I visited him there recently, Kemsley perched on a sleek sofa under huge black-and-white photos of Dean Martin and Frank Sinatra. About 5-foot-8 and a bit oval-shaped, he has a stubbly gray beard and often wears the look of a man who is irritated by something but can't quite remember what it is. He was dressed in jeans and a sweater, one sleeve of which was rolled up enough to reveal part of a tattoo, ''This too shall pass,'' in large, bold Hebrew letters.
''I got it last summer in L.A.,'' he explained. ''It was after a very sad time for me. The world tipped upside down with the credit crunch, and I was treated very badly by a bank that went bust themselves. It was like a bereavement for me, because I'd built this business and I was very passionate about it. And someone told me, 'This, too, shall pass.' And I thought if this ever passes, I'll get that tattooed on my arm.''
He paused for a moment. ''And in truth, I'd had a few drinks that night.''
The business that Kemsley built was called Rock, which he started at age 27. Raised in North London, the middle-class son of an accountant, he left school at 16 and began his career in the basement of a commercial brokerage. He had a talent for spotting real estate value that others overlooked, which yielded its first big payday in 1996, when Kemsley asked two friends and a relative to buy a tram shed. He had it rezoned as a pub, and a property that cost him $:179,000 sold three months later for $:330,000. ''That was life-changing for me,'' he told me. ''Then what happens is people start backing you.''
Kemsley's investors would eventually include some of England's most successful businessmen. But in 2007, he wanted to pick up the pace of his acquisitions, and he teamed with HBOS, a bank and an insurance company that provided equity and $:500 million of debt. The timing was catastrophic. In a matter of months, HBOS was acquired by Lloyd's Banking Group during the most panicked phase of the credit crunch. Rock was placed into the British version of bankruptcy and liquidated.
''They sold my real estate for giveaway money,'' says Kemsley, who resigned from Rock as part of the bankruptcy. ''Just got ripped off. Morons they were.''
A spokesman for PricewaterhouseCoopers in London, which oversaw the liquidation, says the company will not comment. Kemsley says he did not challenge the sale of Rock's assets because a legal fight would have been futile. ''I saw the end of the movie and didn't want to spend the next two years'' in court, he said.
A very different reason for his uncharacteristically quiet departure from Rock is suggested in a lawsuit brought last year by two of Kemsley's former U.S. partners, who managed Rock's American buildings. In that suit -- which names HBOS and others but not Kemsley -- it's said that HBOS granted Kemsley a personal loan of $35 million, described as a ''self-dealing'' transaction in a legal filing by the plaintiffs. Kemsley, it further said, was allowed by HBOS to keep that money if he walked away from Rock without a fight.
''I'm not commenting on that,'' Kemsley says. ''I'm bound by a confidentiality agreement.''
The British public's first hint of Rock's collapse came in June 2009, when Kemsley failed to appear on an episode of ''The Apprentice,'' on which he was a regular. There were later rumors that he had been fired by Sir Alan Sugar, the endearingly caustic entrepreneur who occupies the Donald Trump role. Not true, Kemsley says. He quit because playing Sugar's ''Rottweiler in chief,'' as the British press tagged him, no longer made sense in a reality-TV show all about financial success.
''Inevitably people were going to say: 'Who are you to interview anyone? You've just gone bust.' ''
Exactly how bust Kemsley has gone personally is unclear. When asked what he was left with after Rock failed, he says with a laugh, ''My two front teeth.'' Then he adds: ''No, I was O.K. I'd made a lot of money. But I'd lost my business. I lost what got me out of bed in the morning.''
He found it again with the Cosmos. To drum the team back into the public consciousness, Kemsley hopes to recruit dozens of the world's greatest players for a charity game to be played this year, perhaps at Citi Field. It would be the first time that a squad wearing Cosmos jerseys takes the field in more than 25 years. Kemsley says he'll give a Studio 54 party, maybe even at the theater that now occupies its spot. ''We're going to try to get Mick,'' he says.
This is just the start. Kemsley's ultimate ambition is to turn the Cosmos into ''the No. 1 soccer franchise in the world,'' which is precisely the sort of talk that spooks M.L.S. It's not clear how many would-be owners are competing with Kemsley to spend as much as $100 million to acquire the new franchise, because Garber won't name any interested parties other than the Wilpons, the embattled owners of the Mets. Still, Garber comes off as Kemsley's negotiating equal. ''They need to believe in the M.L.S. system, which is not about one team dominating everybody else, like the Cosmos did 30 years ago,'' Garber says. ''And if they don't believe in our system, we won't sell them the team.''
Not a problem, Kemsley promises as earnestly as he can. ''We intend to meet the requirements of the M.L.S.,'' he says. ''We intend to play nicely.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Glory Days: With the goalkeeper Shep Messing directly behind him, Pele mingled with Mick Jagger after a match at Giants Stadium in 1977. To the far right was one of the team's founders, Ahmet Ertegun. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE NEW YORK COSMOS ARCHIVE) (MM22)
 Today: Pele, still the face of the Cosmos, joined the new owner, Paul Kemsley, at a news conference in Hong Kong. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT YU/ THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MM24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); SOCCER (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); POP & ROCK (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CLOTHING LABELS (64%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (59%)

PERSON: MICK JAGGER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); HONG KONG (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



395 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Brazilian Says Wealthy Nations' Policies Hurt the Developing World

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Brazil's finance minister said Saturday that developed nations like the United States were seeking to solve their own economic problems at the expense of the developing world.
The minister, Guido Mantega, said wealthy countries were attempting ''to export their way out of difficult economic situations'' by printing money and keeping interest rates low. Those policies are driving up the prices of food and oil, causing particular pain for the world's poorest people, Mr. Mantega told the policy-making committee of the International Monetary Fund.
His strong remarks highlight the challenges the United States and Europe face as they try to change their economic relationship with the developing world. In place of unsustainable borrowing to fuel consumption of imported goods, they would like to sell more goods and services to those countries. The problem is that developing nations, losing business from their best customers, hope to replace sales by increasing domestic consumption -- selling to the same customers developed nations are trying to reach. 
It is a dispute that plays out largely in terms of exchange, with both sides charging that their rivals are boosting exports by artificially suppressing the value of their currencies.
The two sides spoke past each other over the last week, during the annual meetings of the major forums for international economic coordination -- the monetary fund, the World Bank and the Group of 20.
The United States says that higher prices are not a necessary consequence of American policies, but instead have resulted from the efforts of developing countries to hold down the value of their own currencies in the face of the capital inflows from developed countries.
The treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said Saturday that developing nations should allow the value of their currencies to be determined by open-market trading. The United States believes that the exchange rates set by the market will contribute to a more sustainable allocation of economic activity among nations, and increased international growth.
''Major economies -- advanced and emerging -- need to allow their exchange rates to adjust in response to market forces,'' Mr. Geithner said.
Rising concerns about inflation shadowed the debate. Commodity prices and asset values are already rising sharply in the developing world, and there is concern that those pressures could contribute to inflation in developed countries.
Economic development in China and other emerging markets has long been felt in the United States largely in the form of lower prices. As those countries absorb a larger share of the world's raw and finished goods, the impact instead may be felt in the form of rising prices.
''Interest rates rising in the emerging world could drive up interest rates in the developing world,'' said Tharman Shanmugaratnam, the finance minister of Singapore and the new chairman of the International Monetary and Financial Committee. ''We've learned from very painful experience during the last few years that nothing is isolated.''
Economic policy makers in the United States have played down the impact of commodity prices on domestic inflation. European policy makers, by contrast, are increasingly concerned.
Didier Reynders, the Belgian finance minister, warned in a statement that ''one should not underestimate'' the possibility that food and oil price inflation could travel from the developing world to Europe and the United States. He noted that those pressures would pass through the same financial and trade channels that helped to lower global inflation in the past by holding down prices. ''Central banks everywhere should be highly vigilant,'' Mr. Reynders said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Finance Minister Guido Mantega of Brazil on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE THEILER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (72%); FOOD PRICES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (94%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



396 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1756 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Short- Timer, Park It Here

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

 BODY:
FOUR adults, 3-year-old twins and a new baby in a two-bedroom Manhattan apartment?
No way, thought Arnhold Fox.
But that was precisely the situation Mr. Fox and his wife were facing when they arrived in Manhattan from Melbourne, Australia, to lend a hand to their daughter and her husband, who were about to have their third child. A few days of multigenerational cohabitation confirmed that they needed to find a roof of their own. (And the baby hadn't even been born yet.)
Manhattan hotel prices were prohibitive -- the tab could have approached $20,000 for their three-month stay, even for the most modest of rooms in an inconvenient neighborhood. So they set out to rent a place of their own.
With that, the couple became consumers in a vast but underrecognized market in New York City. The short-term rental business is diverse, encompassing everything from a cluttered closet-sized walk-up in the outer reaches of Queens to an impeccably restored 1840s town house with 18-foot ceilings, seven bedrooms and a roof deck at 11 Cranberry Street in Brooklyn Heights. Most properties are available for as briefly as a night or for as long as a year. 
A weekend at a short-term can cost anywhere from $250, for a garden apartment in Harlem, to many thousands of dollars for an entire town house. At 11 Cranberry, said Vicki Negron of the Corcoran Group, who has the listing, a weekend could run you $4,000 to $5,000. (Want it for a month? That will be $22,000.)
The city's temporary denizens include actors in town for an Off Broadway run, student interns, business consultants on assignment, Hollywood stars on location, and tourists from all over the world. Corporate types often bunk at the ''extended stay'' residences operated by large hotel chains, including the luxury AKA Suites, the Marriott ExecuStay apartments and the Sutton Court Hotel Residences.
And that doesn't count the short-term renters who already live in the city but need somewhere to crash as a consequence of marital discord, an extended renovation project, or even an illicit tryst -- brokers say they've seen it all.
They also say demand for short-term leases has been growing stronger recently. Paul Macapagal, a vice president of the Real Estate Group NY, said he had represented many clients who bought condos as investment properties for the purpose of renting them short-term. ''The clients I deal with -- their business is flourishing,'' Mr. Macapagal said. ''They don't have enough properties to meet the need. I have one client who picked up two properties last month and is looking to pick up three or four next month.''
To explain the heightened demand, brokers point to a curious mix of economic vitality and caution. Employers are starting to hire again, so people are moving to the city and need short-term housing while they look for a permanent home, said Gary L. Malin, the president of Citi Habitats, which has a division called Citi Furnished that offers short-term rentals. At the same time employers and tourists are looking for ways to avoid hotel costs.
Asher Alcobi, the president of Peter Ashe Real Estate, said he had clients -- both prospective buyers and prospective sellers -- who were beset with lingering uncertainty about the real estate market. He recalled the owners of an alcove studio in the East 60s who were so unhappy with the price they were likely to get for it -- considering what it might have fetched three years ago -- that they opted for Plan B: renting it out for a time. They leased the studio for eight months to a couple from New Jersey who wanted to sample living in the neighborhood before taking the plunge and buying.
Ms. Negron, the Corcoran Group's top rental broker in Brooklyn, said 20 percent of her rental business was in short-term leases. It used to be about 5 percent, she said, but it picked up sharply over the past two years, at a time when the economy was sputtering.
But the increased demand is coming as short-term rentals are subject to greater scrutiny and control. Mr. Macapagal said more condo boards were taking steps to ban subleases. But what could really crimp the practice is a state law scheduled to take effect next month that prohibits rentals of less than 30 days in most apartment buildings.
The legislation was heavily promoted by the hotel industry. Other supporters, including Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, say it will help crack down on illegal hotels as well as preserve quality of life and safety for permanent residents of apartment buildings.
Two Upper West Side single-room occupancy buildings filed suit in February to block the law. A coalition called Protect Vacation Rentals -- which it says includes property owners and managers, bed-and-breakfast proprietors and brokers -- has been disseminating information about the law and urging members to sound off against it.
It will be difficult to enforce the new law, if enacted, and there are many signs that short-term rental businesses are poised to proceed as usual. Web sites like HomeAway.com and VRBO.com (which stands for ''vacation rentals by owner'') are packed with New York properties renting by the night or the week and available well after the law takes effect.
''It's going to be very interesting because a lot of companies, that's all they do,'' said Marie-Claire Martineau, an owner of Maison International, a brokerage that focuses on finding short-term rentals for celebrities who are in town to shoot movies.
For property owners, she said, profit is often considerably less if the lease is for a month at a time. ''We have people calling us now because they are getting ready to try to rent their apartments for more than 30 days. But the problem is that they are used to charging $250 per night. I say, I can get you $3,500 for the month.'' (Do the math: $250 per night comes out to $7,750 over 31 days.)
But especially in condo buildings with only scattered units under sublease, it will be hard to police the practice. In fact, it has long been mostly unregulated.
As the Foxes found, there are many individual players, some offering less-than-ideal deals. Before the couple left for New York, they poked around the Internet on sites like Craigslist. But they were wary of committing to a place without seeing it first. ''They paint a very pretty picture,'' Mr. Fox said. ''But it isn't always the truth.''
Indeed. After they arrived in New York, they contacted five or six landlords (''No one had an agent,'' Mr. Fox said). The apartments they saw seemed to them to be astoundingly expensive for what they were. Mr. Fox shuddered to recall one particular place. ''It was a five-floor walk-up,'' he said. ''You open the front door and, honestly, you had to push yourself in to get past the bed.'' The closets were spilling over. ''There was no light, no nothing,'' he added. And it could be had for $3,000 a month.
Another apartment, in a nice building near Central Park, looked beautiful in the listing photograph. But it actually was in a dark basement.
They decided to secure an agent to help them navigate. They found Crystal Cave, an agent with Platinum Properties, on a corporate rental Web site, Mr. Fox said. Ms. Cave questioned them carefully about what they were looking for, sent them five or six options, and within a few days they had located a large alcove studio with nice light and a view of a pretty garden. The building, on West 57th Street, was close to Central Park -- very convenient for taking the 3-year-old grandchildren on trips to the playground.
The rent, at $2,600 per month, was within their price range and cheaper than what was being asked for many of the unprepossessing places they had seen.
But as is the case with many short-term rentals, the transaction wasn't that simple. For one thing, it wasn't taking place at a hotel. ''You can't just say here's my credit card, let me check in for two months,'' Ms. Cave said.
They had to supply character references and proof of income, and submit to a credit check -- basically anything that a tenant entering into a long-term lease would have to provide. ''They wanted my first born; they wanted everything,'' Mr. Fox said. He wondered why he had to supply proof of income: ''I was paying it all right then. I paid the whole three months plus the security.''
Though landlords may require prospective tenants to jump through numerous hoops, Mr. Malin of Citi Habitats emphasized that there are few enforceable checks on the market, so prospective renters need to look out for themselves as well. For example, he said: ''If someone says I'm willing to give you a guest agreement, that's a first sign of potential problem. It should be a short-term lease.''
Also, he said, dealing with a large provider is usually safer than doing business with individual landlords. Clients would be well advised to contact the managing agent of any condo where they plan to rent, to make sure the arrangement is allowable under the building's rules, he said.
''A lot of times people are trying to get around the rules of their boards,'' he said. ''You need to be very leery about that.'' Otherwise, he said, ''the next thing you know, you will be evicted.''
Brokers say that because short-term rentals are almost always furnished (and some leases include cleaning services), monthly rents usually are 20 percent to 40 percent higher than unfurnished long-term rentals -- a premium that can sometimes come as a shock.
But for $12,000 to $22,000 a month at the Chelsea Mansion, 436 West 20th Street, you get antique chandeliers and 21st-century appliances like Liebherr refrigerators and Viking wine coolers. All five units at the mansion, a 19th-century town house, are short-term rentals.
The ambience appealed to Vanda Nascimento, a house-hunter from Monaco, who looked at a lot of short-term options that did not suit her taste. ''Inside they were terrible,'' she said.
She is now renting a two-bedroom apartment at Chelsea Mansion with her husband and young son. The inviting atmosphere of their temporary place has allowed them to relax and take their time searching for a new home.
''Chelsea Mansion was different,'' Ms. Nascimento said. ''It's a good place, well decorated. We want to stay here until we find something that really changes our lives.''
Correction: April 24, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption last Sunday about short-term rentals in New York City misstated the street where a two-bedroom apartment rents for $5,600 a month. It is 406 West 45th Street, not 46th Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PACK LIGHT: The parlor floor of the Chelsea Mansion, 436 West 20th Street, above, rents for $12,000 a month. A twobedroom apartment, left, rents for $5,000 a month at 29 Willow Street, Brooklyn Heights, an entirely short-term 10-unit building. A two-bedroom, below left, at 406 West 46th Street, rents for $5,900 a month. At 1 Wall Street Court, a studio, below, rents for $2,100 a month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY GETTY IMAGES) (RE1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); CELEBRITIES (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (57%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



397 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Preservationists Fight to Save Prentice Women's Hospital

BYLINE: By JUAN VELEZ. 
jpvelez@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
In a last-ditch effort to block Northwestern University's demolition of the old Prentice Women's Hospital, historical preservationists have enlisted a team of architects to imagine three possible futures for the striking cloverleaf-shaped tower: research laboratory, medical office and student housing.
Built in 1975, Prentice was designed by the acclaimed Chicago architect Bertrand Goldberg, who designed Marina City. Northwestern wants to raze the building -- which many architects consider worthy of landmark status -- in September to make way for a medical research facility. 
''Without any legal tools available to prevent demolition, it really does fall down to trying to convince the powers that be that the building is viable for their needs,'' said Lisa DiChiera of Landmarks Illinois, a historic conservation group that will issue a reuse study for the largely vacant hospital next week.
When pressed about the possibility of repurposing the building, university officials have said Prentice's ceilings are too low to fit the mechanical systems that modern research laboratories depend on, citing an internal study they would not make public.
But those familiar with the reuse study flatly disagrees and argues that Prentice can accommodate labs if they forgo dropped ceilings and leave the pipework exposed.
''With Prentice, Goldberg advanced an innovative plan centered on the human body, with communities of nurses and patients forming 'villages' of care in the building's four circular wings,'' said Zoe Ryan, curator of the first major retrospective of Goldberg's work, which will have its debut at the Art Institute the same month that the hospital is scheduled to face the wrecking ball.
The study says these wings, which are column-free and give the building its cylindrical form, are highly flexible and adaptable spaces for reuse.
If converted to research facilities, each wing could house a 16-person lab, for 64 researchers per floor or 448 in the building, the study says. It adds that the open floor space would allow each lab's layout to be tailored to its research team's needs. Walls could be built anywhere, allowing partner labs to partition themselves from the rest.
A continuous walkway hugging the perimeter of each floor would make it easy to move from lab to lab, while a central breakout space would encourage conversation and collaboration, the study said.
A green roof, complete with bocce court and running track, would cap the concrete tower's rectangular base, or podium. The podium's somber glass surface would be lightened to lend it a less imposing air.
Al Cubbage, a spokesman for Northwestern, declined to comment on the reuse study, saying only that the university would ''certainly consider it carefully and thoughtfully once it comes out.''
To allow time for discussion, Alderman Brendan Reilly (42nd Ward) has persuaded Northwestern officials to delay their application for a demolition permit until June.
To justify its intent to demolish the building, the university said the Prentice property could support a building with three times the square footage, though it has no timetable for its development.
''I think they'll say, 'Thanks, but no thanks,' '' said Jim Peters, the president of Landmarks Illinois. ''All we can do is demonstrate how this building can be economically reusable, take it out to see if folks like this idea and see if public pressure can develop.''
Prentice's fate could hinge on the public's response. There is one wrinkle: although many architects agree that the former hospital is a masterpiece, the public's fondness for the bulbous concrete tower seems mixed at best.
''There's this 50-year rule that's often invoked,'' said Gunny Harboe, a preservation architect, who recently renovated the Carson Pirie Scott building in the Loop. ''When you get these buildings that are less than 50 years old, a lot of people just have this reaction that 'I don't like it 'cause it's ugly,' which has really has no merit or bearing on the issue of whether or not it's an important building.''
Jeanne Gang, the architect who was the creator of the undulating Aqua Tower overlooking Millennium Park, does like the building's looks. ''Actually, I think it is pretty,'' she said. ''It's engaging. It challenges your assumptions. When I come down the street, I always look for it, like a friend.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prentice Women's Hospital, built in 1975, may be demolished to make room for expansion of Northwestern's medical center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); GREEN BUILDING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



398 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Teach, Pray, Live

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN. 
Fred A. Bernstein is an architecture writer based in New York.

 BODY:
WHEN 10 Jesuit priests moved into their new home at Fairfield University about a year ago, some of them couldn't fit their old desks into their new bedrooms. And ''we live out of our desks,'' says the Rev. Mark P. Scalese, who teaches at the university. He was referring to the Jesuits' penchant for learning, as reflected in a 10-year training period known as ''formation'' that includes extensive graduate education. Many end up with three or four advanced degrees.
But if the Jesuits at Fairfield had to sacrifice their old furniture, they were doing so to magnify their presence. Their new residence, boldly contemporary and centrally located, was designed to increase their visibility at a time when the number of Jesuits on campus has been falling.
At Fairfield's leafy campus in southwestern Connecticut, the Jesuits teach subjects as diverse as philosophy and film production, while trying to help students develop ''spiritual depth,'' in the words of the Rev. Dr. Paul J. Fitzgerald, the university's senior vice president for academic affairs. Their goal is to remain relevant, a problem on a campus where student concerns range from the shortage of parking spaces to rules forbidding the distribution of condoms. 
Once there were nearly 100 Jesuits -- members of an order founded by St. Ignatius Loyola in the 16th century -- at Fairfield. Today, there are 22. Only six are professors; the others are administrators, or retired. That means some of the university's 3,200 undergraduates will make it through four years without having a single Jesuit professor.
The graying of the Jesuit population is felt at each of the 28 Jesuit-run institutions of higher learning in the United States, from Georgetown University in Washington, founded in 1789, to Wheeling Jesuit University in West Virginia, established in 1954. Nationwide, the number of Jesuits has declined, to under 3,000 from about 10,000 in 1965. More than half are over age 60. That they aren't being replaced by younger Jesuits is the result of social and economic circumstances, including increased opportunity for poor Catholics and the stringent requirements of the priesthood. (''In my experience, mandatory celibacy is far and away the biggest deal breaker,'' says Father Scalese.)
But the declining numbers ''don't mean we're all sulking off into the sunset,'' says the Rev. Dr. Charles L. Currie, president of the Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities.
Fairfield's new Jesuit home, a 22,000-square-foot eco-friendly building, is part of an effort to reach out to students and non-Jesuit faculty. Unlike their previous house, in an isolated spot on the periphery of campus, the new structure commands a prominent hillside overlooking a main thoroughfare.
''There was a conscious desire to have a front door that opens to the campus,'' says Father Scalese, who was on the committee that helped plan the new building. It was designed by Gray Organschi Architecture, a New Haven firm, as both a symbol of openness and a tool for reaching out to the university community. The building contains a chapel, counseling rooms and a large social hall. ''We can have people over, to talk about how, together, a small group of Jesuits and hundreds of faculty and staff do the Jesuit university thing,'' Father Fitzgerald says.
The Jesuit university thing, he says, includes helping students avoid fragmented lives -- ''when they party with their friends, they are tempted to have one personality and set of values, and then in class they have a second personality and set of values, and then they come home to see their parents for holidays, and they have a third personality and a third set of values.''
ONE way Fairfield hopes to help is by requiring freshmen to take classes with their dorm-mates, so that they live and study with the same group. Sophomores choose dorms with themes derived from Jesuit teachings, including justice, leadership, environmental stewardship and creativity. One with a religious focus offers monthly mentor meetings to discuss such questions as ''Who am I called to be?'' Seven Jesuits live in apartments in the undergraduate dorms, where they hold weekly Mass and open-door hours.
Imparting Jesuit values with so few Jesuits in the classroom, though, requires making ''the lay faculty true partners in the enterprise of Jesuit education,'' Father Fitzgerald says. All new faculty members are exposed to Jesuit pedagogical methods, which he describes as ''analysis of evidence and reflection upon experience rather than a mere memorization of theory.''
Some lay faculty simulate part of the formative Jesuit experience -- a 30-day silent retreat. ''But most people don't have 30 days,'' Father Currie says. So there are new options, including a retreat divided into six months of hourlong sessions. One Jesuit college, Creighton University, in Omaha, offers an online retreat -- the Web site guides participants through spiritual exercises devised by St. Ignatius.
The Jesuits' goal, Father Fitzgerald says, is to create engaged students ''whose life project is bigger than themselves.'' A fourth of Fairfield's students are not Catholics. ''If they become better Muslims or better Jews or better Episcopalians, great,'' he says.
The Jesuits at Fairfield haven't always been so proactive. In 1974, they ceded control of the university and moved from campus to a new house on an isolated nine-acre site. Back then, in an era of social upheaval, they were looking to step back, Father Scalese explains.
In exchange for returning their nine acres to the university, Fairfield covered most of the $12.5 million cost of the new structure. The building committee, advised by the Rev. Gilbert Sunghera, an architecture professor at the University of Detroit Mercy and consultant on the design of sacred spaces, met with a dozen architecture firms. When they visited a New Haven jazz club by Gray Organschi, Father Sunghera recalls, ''We were immediately captured by the quiet environment they created by modest means of bent wood.''
The architects, Lisa Gray and Alan Organschi, have written on ways that architecture can express a community's values. Last semester, Gray Organschi served as ''firm in residence'' at the architecture school at Roger Williams University in Rhode Island. Mr. Organschi is also a professor at Yale, where he coordinates a course in which first-year graduate students design and construct a building for a nonprofit client.
The Jesuits, having taken vows of poverty, hoped the building would ''make use of materials that a person of modest means could obtain,'' Father Sunghera says. The architects achieved that with a striking combination of concrete floors, glass walls, unadorned wood panels and corrugated metal siding. The contemporary forms seem to make clear that the Jesuits are looking to the future. At the same time, they interpret their vows of poverty as requiring them to tread lightly on the land, which led them to incorporate a number of sustainable features.
The Jesuits have few private possessions. University paychecks are deposited directly to the account of the Jesuit Community of Fairfield. And those who couldn't fit their belongings -- in some cases what they had accumulated over nearly 40 years -- into their new rooms received assistance from the community's rector. (Rooms are only about 200 square feet.) ''He kept returning to the principle that Jesuits had taken a vow of poverty, that they're not supposed to have things that won't fit into their rooms,'' Ms. Gray says.
The new building may help attract younger members of the order from other Jesuit colleges. Its attractions include a social hall with comfortable seating, stunning views and a bar stocked with Skyy Vodka and Dewar's scotch -- which Father Fitzgerald calls ''the altar of our small 's' spirits.'' The lower level contains a gym and a TV room with a large collection of DVDs.
But there is another way in which the building may slow the decline in Jesuits on campus. The old building was hard to navigate; a narrow stairway linked a basement kitchen to the upstairs bedrooms. The new building, by contrast, easily accommodates wheelchairs. ''I'm a celibate, and my shower is big enough for five,'' Father Fitzgerald jokes. At the same time, the social hall is located between the chapel and bedroom wing, specifically to encourage interaction.
Accessibility and forced sociability should allow retired Jesuits to remain ''in community'' longer than they otherwise might, says Catherine R. Morency, the health care coordinator for the Jesuits' New England province. Ms. Morency works at a retirement community in Weston, Mass., where Fairfield Jesuits go when they can no longer take care of themselves. ''It's finishing school,'' Father Fitzgerald says, wryly. ''No one wants to go.''
Still, the Jesuit population at Fairfield will continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. As part of their deal with the university, the Jesuits agreed that if declining numbers make it impractical for them to hold onto the building, it will revert to the university, which would likely use it as a conference center.
According to Father Fitzgerald, there should be enough Jesuits at Fairfield to operate the building for about 25 years.
And after that? He says, ''God will decide.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOUSE OF GOD: The new eco-friendly residence for Jesuits at Fairfield University in Connecticut is centrally located on campus in the hopes of increasing the priests' visibility. Expansive yet modest, it has a chapel and large social hall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRAY ORGANSCHI ARCHITECTURE
 TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



399 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Sarah Rapawy, Roberto Gonzalez

BYLINE: By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

 BODY:
Sarah Gerber Rapawy and Roberto Jose Gonzalez were married Saturday evening at Hacienda del Sol Guest Ranch Resort, a hotel in Tucson. Frank R. Zapata, a senior judge of the United States District Court in Tucson, officiated.
The bride, 31, is a lawyer in the office of the general counsel at the United States Agency for International Development in Washington. She graduated from Stanford, from which she also received a master's in international policy studies. She received a law degree from Georgetown.
She is the daughter of Beverly Gerber Rapawy and Walter Rapawy of Harrington Park, N.J. Her parents both work for Prominent Properties Sotheby's International Realty. The bride's mother is a real estate agent in the Tenafly, N.J., office, and her father is a broker and agent in the Alpine, N.J., office. 
The bridegroom, 32, is a deputy general counsel of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which begins operating on July 21, in Washington. He is responsible for advising the bureau on issues of law and policy. He was an associate counsel to President Obama from 2009 to 2011. From 2004 to 2005, he was a clerk to Justice John Paul Stevens of the United States Supreme Court. He graduated summa cum laude from Duke and received a law degree from Stanford.
He is the son of Roseann Duenas Gonzalez and Bob Gonzalez of Tucson. The bridegroom's mother is a professor of English at the University of Arizona at Tucson. She teaches linguistics. She is also the director of the National Center for Interpretation, Testing, Research and Policy there. His father, an electrical engineer, works in Tucson and Phoenix for the signal and interface division of ON Semiconductor, a maker of semiconductors.
The couple met in fall 2006 when they were associates at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr, the Washington law firm, and working together, Ms. Rapawy said, on ''a litigation matter stemming out of events in Nicaragua.''
Their offices were a floor apart. They called each other, often five times a day, and occasionally reviewed documents together in a conference room.
''I thought he was charming, witty and funny,'' she said.
He was also interested in her -- instantly. ''She's beautiful,'' he said. He added: ''We were in the same foxhole together. It was a bonding experience.''
In spring 2007, at a party for a colleague, Mr. Gonzalez said, he built up the courage to profess his feelings by drinking several Moscow mules.
''I was surprised, and really hesitant,'' she said. ''Regardless of what happened, we had to work together. I told him I was really flattered, but cautious.''
About a month later, Ms. Rapawy became less cautious. ''I liked him, and threw caution to the wind,'' she said, and they had their first real date at a restaurant.
They began dating seriously, but kept the relationship quiet at work, Mr. Gonzalez said. Then, in 2009, he left the law firm to work at the White House; she followed in 2010, landing at the Agency for International Development. This past January, Mr. Gonzalez, who had just left the White House counsel's office, invited Ms. Rapawy to take the customary departure photograph with him and President Obama in the Oval Office.
Ms. Rapawy said that when they mentioned their wedding plans, the President ''asked about the date, and if I had my wedding dress.''
She said she was tempted to share all the details, but instead answered with a simple, ''Yes, Mr. President.''
''It was amazing and very surreal,'' she added.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2011/lnvxe:date>

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A report last Sunday about the marriage of Sarah Rapawy and Roberto Gonzalez misstated the surname of the bridegroom at one point. He is Mr. Gonzalez, not Mr. Rodriguez.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JUDGES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (64%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (63%); ELECTRONICS (63%)

COMPANY: WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (84%); SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (70%); ON SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (54%)

TICKER: ONNN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN PAUL STEVENS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (96%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%) ARIZONA, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); NICARAGUA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



400 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: A Makeover In Mott Haven

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
FOR decades Bruckner Boulevard in Mott Haven, the Bronx, was known more as a place to pass through than visit, especially by drivers trying to beat the toll for the Triborough Bridge. By taking the Willis or Third Avenue Bridge, which feed into the boulevard, travelers can enter and exit Manhattan without paying.
There may not have been much of a reason to linger in this corner of Mott Haven anyway. Despite the recent construction of apartments and an ongoing effort to create an antiques district, the neighborhood sometimes seems to have barely shaken off its industrial past. Warehouses line unpaved streets near waste transfer stations, and highways and train tracks are close by. 
Yet these blocks have a different look as of late. Much of that change has to do with Bruckner by the Bridge, a 419-unit low-income rental complex from the Atlantic Development Group that takes up much of the block bounded by Bruckner, Willis Avenue, Alexander Avenue and East 132nd Street.
For the studios, which rent for $710 a month, renters must earn $26,126 to $33,300 a year. For the largest two-bedrooms, which will be $979 a month, the income range is $35,417 to $47,520.
At 12 stories, the structure is far taller than others in the vicinity, and with alternating tan, brown and white sections that give the facade an almost striped appearance, it is clearly noticeable from the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive across the Harlem River in Manhattan. The block was rezoned in 2005 to allow for residential development.
Though Bruckner by the Bridge, which cost $135 million and is being financed in part by the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development and the Housing Development Corporation, appears to be one building, it is actually three separate ones.
The first to be completed and occupied is 80 Bruckner, on the north side. As of late last month, residents had moved into about 50 of its 83 units, which range from studios to two-bedrooms, and almost all the rest were leased, said Sharon Smith, an executive vice president of Atlantic. Another building, at 105 Willis, with 115 units, is now being leased, and the third, at 331 East 132nd Street, with 221 apartments, is under construction.
Mott Haven and its surrounding South Bronx neighborhood do not lack for affordable housing; the 10-building Mitchel Houses complex, a red-brick public housing project, is just around the corner. But most of that stock is run-down and outdated, Ms. Smith said on a tour of a two-bedroom with wood floors, a pass-through kitchen and built-in air-conditioners.
''Yes, the South Bronx can be a tough place to live,'' said Ms. Smith, alluding to the area's high poverty rate and other issues. ''But the families who live here deserve a quality product.'' Some of the blame for the neighborhood's ills has fallen on the highways, which slice up the South Bronx and whose cars contribute to the area's high asthma rates, critics say.
A step toward addressing at least part of that problem is happening right outside Bruckner by the Bridge's windows: a $612 million project to upgrade the Willis Avenue Bridge.
The project's first phase was to replace the aging bridge itself, and that was completed last fall. Now the city is raising, adding and widening on- and off-ramps between the bridge and the Major Deegan Expressway, which are to be completed in 2012. The Third Avenue Bridge was replaced in 2005.
The reconfigured roads are expected to get vehicles off local streets, allowing residents to cross them on foot more easily, said Mario Bodden, who handles community development for the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, or SoBro. The new infrastructure will also give travelers a more favorable impression of the borough, he said.
While any new housing has undeniable benefits, some question whether the latest offerings are the right fit for Mott Haven. Critics see two-bedrooms as too small for most neighborhood families, who tend to have multiple generations under one roof.
Also, though half the apartments at Bruckner by the Bridge are reserved for residents of the borough's Community Board 1, the minimum salary required to qualify to live there -- about $35,000 for a family of four -- is far too steep for the area, critics point out.
That's not necessarily a fault of the developers: qualifying income levels are set using area median income, which is $48,060 for New York City as a whole.
If not enough local residents qualify, developers can open up the leasing to residents of other neighborhoods, which would in turn increase the number of low-income residents in Mott Haven, said Mychal Johnson, a Mott Haven homeowner and a Citi Habitats broker who serves on Community Board 1. ''What we're looking for is some economic diversity,'' which could be better achieved with for-sale properties like condominiums, Mr. Johnson said.
But Ms. Smith said there wouldn't be much of a net gain in residents. ''You do not see a mass exodus from one borough to another,'' she said. ''People want to stay within the Bronx.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEW RENTALS: Bruckner by the Bridge, which is being financed in part by the city, appears to be one building, but it is actually three separate ones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); POOR POPULATION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); ZONING (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); POVERTY RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

 
