

401 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Obstacles Still Hinder Camden's New Chief 

BYLINE:  By JILL P. CAPUZZO 

DATELINE: CAMDEN 

 BODY:
MELVIN PRIMAS hopes to start work as the chief operating officer here next week, nearly a month after Governor McGreevey appointed him to take over this troubled city. Though Mr. Primas plans to move into his new office in City Hall, crucial elements of the Camden Recovery Act are being challenged. 
 The $175 million recovery package that appeared to be a sure thing when the State Legislature approved it and the governor signed it into law this summer is on shakier ground these days, with one court challenge having been upheld, and two more pending. Add to that a grass-roots campaign to block implementation of the bill and a Supreme Court case that could tie up most of the state financing for months, and it becomes less clear how the city can move forward with revitalization plans. 
 Earlier this month, one activist, Frank Fulbrook, filed a civil lawsuit against the governor and Mayor Gwendolyn Faison, challenging the act as unconstitutional, particularly the portion that allows the governor to appoint a chief operating officer with more power than the elected officials, who will not be able to veto the officer's actions.
Mr. Fulbrook filed his case in Mercer County's Superior Court, the same one that last month upheld a challenge to bill's proposed restructuring of the Camden school board, which would have created six governor-appointed positions. Judge Andrew Smithson of Superior Court ruled that the law was unconstitutional because it applied exclusively to Camden. The governor plans to appeal the court ruling, while the bill's two Democratic sponsors, State Senator Wayne Bryant and Assembly Majority Leader Joseph Roberts, both from Camden, are reworking its language to make it more universal.
The anticipated revision has spurred Ali Sloan El, the City Council's holdout on a vote approving the Recovery Act, to write to mayors of the state's 567 municipalities warning that the measure "set a precedent for virtual occupation of urban cities." The councilman, who said he had heard from 10 mayors interested in nullifying the measure, noted, "I don't have a problem with Randy Primas running some of the operation of the city, but I'm not going to give him a dictatorship."
While the revised language is intended to apply to all municipalities, Mr. Roberts said that few cities were in straits as dire as Camden's and that therefore most would be exempted. "To be eligible under this legislation, you'll see that the overwhelming majority of municipalities will not be at risk," he said.
Still, there are signs of progress. Across from Camden County College, a crane spikes the ground to lay pilings for the school's second building. Colored signs spell out the newly delineated neighborhoods.
But most of the current projects were already under way, using funds previously approved, while the $175 million in new financing -- to be raised through a state bond issue -- may not be accessible for several months, since the State Supreme Court decided to re-examine the constitutionality of issuing state bonds without voter approval. 
In addition to the bond funds, the Recovery Act included $8 million from the state for general operating expenditures that can be tapped for State Police training and for covering administrative costs like Mr. Primas's salary, expected to be $160,000 to $180,000. But 6 of the 15 members of the newly formed Economic Recovery Board, which must set his salary, have not yet been appointed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPEALS (89%); CITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VETO (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); APPROVALS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

PERSON: PRIMAS, MELVIN; CAPUZZO, JILL P; FULBROOK, FRANK; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); FAISON, GWENDOLYN (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) CAMDEN (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



402 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2993 words

HEADLINE: Office Vacancies Rise, As Do Building Prices 

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
THE underlying fundamentals of the commercial real estate market in Manhattan are behaving in the mirror image of expected patterns. 
 Financial industry companies continue to cut jobs and the dot-coms and telecommunications companies are a fraction of what they were. Because of this shrinkage of the work force, companies are offering unneeded space for sublease at discounted rates, adding to the forces that are depressing overall rent levels. 
 According to figures compiled by Julien J. Studley, a brokerage that represents tenants, the average asking rent for prime buildings in Midtown has fallen to an average of $67.55 a square foot compared with $75.48 per square foot before Sept. 11, 2001. And, it notes, because of better terms being offered by landlords, deals can be made with effective rents of about $60 a foot. Effective rents downtown are about half of those in Midtown, the company said. 
Since occupancy rates and rent levels create the cash flows that underwrite the value of properties, sales prices usually move in parallel with a leasing market. When vacancies are low and rents high, prices rise; when vacancies are high and rents are dropping, prices decline.
Not now. With many investors moving their money out of the stock market and into what is perceived as the comparative safety and stability of real estate, buildings in Manhattan have been fetching record prices. The decision by Boston Properties, a real estate investment trust, to pay $1.06 billion, or $630 a square foot, for the building at 399 Park Avenue, between 53rd and 54th Streets, was cited by many real estate executives as an example of the exceptional demand for prime properties.
Although leasing fundamentals are currently weak, they can be expected to improve with a recovery of the overall economy, real estate specialists say. Meanwhile, capital is moving out of the stock and bond markets looking for a safe haven in real estate. "I get calls every day from people who want to lend me money," said Leslie W. Himmel, a partner in Himmel & Meringoff Properties, an investment company. 
John Lyons, the president of Granite Partners, a New York-based real estate finance group, said: "There is tremendous uncertainty in the equities market that is prompting people to look for hard-core assets with a steady income stream from long-term leases. There is tremendous demand for Class A properties in central business districts."
Many real estate executives say they fear the current level of demand for office space is not yet at the bottom of the cycle. They do not expect a recovery until most of the sublet space is absorbed and the leasing market returns to a more normal condition, possibly by early next year.
"I don't think we are on the way up yet, but we're not far from the bottom," said Stephen B. Siegel, chairman of Insignia/ESG, the brokerage and services company. "The wave of sublet space creates uncertainty about rents because 75 percent of it has no asking price."
Sublet space can be a smart alternative for a company that does not want to make a large capital expenditure in uncertain economic times, because the space is usually fully built out and equipped for use. Companies moving into space being marketed directly for a landlord usually have to pay most of the expense of converting raw walls and floors into usable offices.
"Say we are looking for 60,000 square feet of direct space downtown for a client," Mr. Siegel said. "You could make a deal in the high $30's or low $40's and get some modest contribution to work from the landlord. But you would still have the capital expenditure for the buildout.
"But you could sublet for $25 a square foot with fully built-out offices and a phone system," he said. Subleases tend to be of shorter duration than direct leases, but a short-term solution that conserves cash in uncertain times may be just what some companies are looking for, Mr. Siegel said.
This may be especially true of space once occupied by dot-com companies, which lavished money to turn space in old, poorly equipped buildings into locations suitable for doing business on the Internet, said James S. Meiskin, president of Plymouth Partners, a tenants' broker. "The dot-coms poured millions into their spaces," he said. "There is a lot of demand for highly improved dot-com space."
Mr. Meiskin said space once occupied by failed or greatly shrunken Internet and telecommunications companies has swelled the amount of sublet space available to the point that sublet space is 35.6 percent of the total on the market. Typically, sublet space runs in the single digits of the total.
Because companies seeking to sublet space are trying to reduce the cost of their lease obligations, he said, they are willing to price the space lower than the primary landlord, to get a paying subtenant in as quickly as possible. "The owners feel pinched because the sublease space is priced below direct space," Mr. Meiskin said. 
In addition to the dot-com and telecom spaces, which tend to be in older Class B or C buildings, vacancies in Class A space -- the most-modern, best-located properties -- have increased in the current quarter, according to figures complied by the Studley firm. The Class A vacancy rate in Manhattan was 10.7 percent at the beginning of this month, up from 7.8 percent at the end of June, as 1.64 million square feet was added to the rolls during the period.
There is now approximately 13.2 million square feet of vacant Class A space in Manhattan, divided almost equally between Midtown (6.86 million square feet) and downtown (6.34 million square feet.) Much of the recent increase has been concentrated in Midtown, according to the Studley figures. There was 3.64 million square feet of Class A space available in Midtown before Sept. 11, 2001. That increased to 4.82 million square feet in the second quarter of this year.
Nevertheless, these Class A spaces are likely to attract tenants more quickly than the older Class B and C properties, said Mitchell Steir, vice chairman of Studley. "The best quality product will always lease first, even if the number is a little lower than the owner would like," he said. "An example is the Times Square Tower, where all the Andersen space should be leased by the end of the year."
The accounting firm of Arthur Andersen was to have been the anchor tenant in the building now under construction at 42nd Street between Broadway and Seventh Avenue. But then the firm was enmeshed in the financial scandal surrounding the Enron Corporation and is being dismantled.
Some brokers are suggesting that this is a good time for companies to lock in leases while rates are near their cyclical lows. "We have seen real estate cycles where tenants have subsidized their business by signing 15-year leases near the bottom of the market," said Michael T. Cohen, president of Williams Real Estate.
He said this particularly applies to downtown, where a combination of a soft market, willingness of landlords to negotiate and government incentives have made rents far lower than in Midtown. According to Studley, the cost gap between the two submarkets has grown substantially. Midtown costs, which were 64 percent higher than those downtown on Sept. 11, 2001, are now twice as high, by Studley's estimates.
Mr. Cohen said the buildings of the World Financial Center, which were close to the World Trade Center and damaged in the attack, represent particularly good bargains. "The World Financial Center is some of the best real estate in the country with some of the best urban planning since Rockefeller Center," he said. The buildings are "such a howling bargain," Mr. Cohen added, that they are filling up again.
But other properties downtown are much harder to fill, many brokers report, because of the lingering transportation problems, the questions about what will happen at the Trade Center site and the emotional aftermath of the Sept. 11 attack. "People kick the tires downtown" but are not quick to commit to relocating there, said Patrick Robinson, managing principal in the New York office of the Staubach Company, a tenants' broker. "In a down market, tenants will go to quality," he added. "As rents come down and spaces become available on Sixth and Park Avenues, that's where people want to go."
"Midtown is the preferred location," said Francis A. Doyle, managing director of the New York office of Jones Lang LaSalle.
The low sale price of an interest in one of the buildings in the World Financial Center last week is indicative of the difficulties in Lower Manhattan. Brookfield Financial Properties, the successor to the company that developed the center, paid $127 a square foot for a 51 percent interest in 3 World Financial Center, as compared with sales prices of several hundred dollars a square foot for major buildings in Midtown.
Many real estate executives say they expect the office vacancies to drop and rents to increase in a fairly short period if the economy improves, because there has been little new construction and what has been built has been for specific tenants like Reuters and Ernst & Young in Times Square. "There has been no speculative building, so the market could tighten up quickly," Mr. Meiskin said.
But some argue that there is more office space overhanging the market than is generally recognized. Old industrial buildings on the West Side of Manhattan that have been converted to office use are just as much a part of the market as shiny new towers, they argue.
One adherent of this school is James B. Buslik, a principal of Adams & Company Real estate, a brokerage. "Between 14th Street and 40th Street on the West Side there have to be 100 buildings of 50,000 to 200,000 square feet that have been converted from industrial to office," he said. 
Just listing a few of the giants -- 111 Eighth Avenue, a former Port Authority terminal; the Starrett-Lehigh building at 601 West 26th Street; and Chelsea Market at 75 Ninth Avenue -- quickly produces impressive space totals. "You can get to 8 million square feet with just five buildings, and you can add the whole Trinity portfolio to that," Mr. Buslik said, referring to the properties owned and managed by Trinity Church, which have largely been converted from industrial uses, such as printing, to offices over the last decade.
"People say there has been no new construction, but it has been reconstruction that has added to the supply," Mr. Buslik said. "Those buildings are not going back to manufacturing; this is not a manufacturing city any more."
Although brokers tend by nature to be optimists, some will admit that the prospects for the office market in Manhattan are clouded. Job shrinkage in the financial services industry means less space is needed to house workers, and the accounting scandals have made many companies reluctant to make real estate decisions, they say.
"We are going to be in the doldrums for a while," said Mark P. Boisi, chairman of Colliers ABR, a brokerage. "We have not seen the last of the layoffs yet, and we have not seen the last Enron. Have we hit bottom? I don't know, but I suspect the next few months will tell."
But if prospects for office leasing are uncertain, the investment sales market is quite clear. Investors like real estate in New York and are willing to pay to buy it. In paying $630 a square foot for the building at 399 Park Avenue, Boston Properties well exceeded the per-square-foot price paid for trophy properties in the recent past.
According to Robert L. Sammons, director of research for Colliers, the Seagram Building at 375 Park Avenue sold in late 2000 for $519 a square foot. Earlier, in August 1998, the General Motors Building at 767 Fifth Avenue was sold for $439 a square foot.
The lowest interest rates in decades make it relatively easy for buyers to finance purchases, and the gyrations of the stock market are driving investors to the stability and predictability of real estate. "Investment sales seem to be responding to the capital markets rather then the rental market," said Mr. Cohen of Williams. "The assumption is that, while rentals are sluggish, economic expansion will resume in the future." 
Bruce Mosler, the president for United States operations for Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company, said: "There is a flight of capital from the stock market to real estate, and prices are increasing. The problem is there is a dearth of quality product."
The ultralow interest rates mean that buyers may not have to wait for the leasing market to improve to start making money, Mr. Lyons of Granite Partners said. This is because, recently, some buildings immediately produce a greater percentage return than it costs the buyer to borrow. For example, if a building produces an 8 percent annual return on investment, and the buyer can borrow for 6 percent, the buyer pockets the 2 percent spread between borrowing cost and income. "People can make millions on the spread, which is why it is very beneficial to buy buildings at this time," he said.
In a research note on Boston Properties issued in connection with the purchase of 399 Park Avenue, David Shulman and Stuart Axelrod, securities analysts with Lehman Brothers, raised earnings expectations for the REIT as a result of the transaction. They noted that 75 percent of the building's 1.6 million square feet are leased for 15 years at rental rates slightly above the current market.
"The interest rates today make what might have been a marginal deal look like a great deal," said Peter Hauspurg, the chairman of Eastern Consolidated Properties, a sales brokerage in New York.

Regional Trends
A Similar Pattern To Manhattan
Demand for office space in the areas around New York follows the same pattern as in the city: vacancy rates are rising and rents are declining.
In Jersey City, where the Class A space is a clear alternative to Manhattan, the vacancy rate increased to 14.2 percent at the end of the second quarter from 12.9 percent at the start of the quarter, according to estimates by Colliers, , while the average rent declined to $29.43 a square foot from $32.56 a square foot.
The vacancy rate in Class A space in Westchester County rose to 14.9 percent on June 30 from 13.9 percent at the beginning of the second quarter and from 8.9 percent at the end of 2000. However, asking rents held steady, at an average of $26.08 a square foot.
Layoffs in Fairfield County placed more space on the market than could be absorbed, with the vacancy rate spiking to 16.8 percent at the end of the second quarter from 11.2 percent in September 2001, according to the Colliers study. Average asking rentals for Class A space declined slightly, to $29.65 a square foot.
As in Manhattan, sublet space has become an important factor in Westchester and Fairfield Counties, said John D. Goodkind, managing principal of Newmark & Company Real Estate's Westchester and Fairfield office. "Sublet space is about 25 percent in Westchester and about a third in Fairfield," he said. "These markets mirror what is happening in New York."

Retail Space
Shopping Areas Remain Attractive
Demand for retail space has held steady in most parts of Manhattan this year, despite the decline in the office sector, according to brokers specializing in such space. "The luxury brands are still flocking to Fifth Avenue," said Robert K. Futterman of Robert K. Futterman & Associates. He noted that Boucheron, a subsidiary of the Gucci Group, leased a space in the St. Regis Hotel at Fifth Avenue and 55th Street to sell high-end jewelry, perfume and watches. And De Beers, the diamond merchant, has said it will open its first United States retail store in 2004, also in the St. Regis. 
Other areas in Manhattan's traditional shopping districts have been attracting attention as well, said Alan Victor, an executive vice president of the Lansco Corporation. "There is a space available on the northwest corner of Madison Avenue and 57th Street with about 3,300 square feet on the ground floor and mezzanine levels," he said. "The asking price is $1,000 per square foot for the first floor and $250 a square foot for the mezzanine, and they have already had several offers."
And the interest is not just along the Gold Coast of upper Manhattan. Although some stores in SoHo closed after tourist traffic dropped off after the attack on the World Trade Center, "the death of SoHo has been exaggerated," Mr. Futterman said. "The international tourist has not come back to SoHo, but the local tourists have," he said. "People from suburban New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are much more comfortable about coming back to SoHo."

Hotels
The Customers Are Less Well-Heeled
New York's hotels are fairly well occupied now, but with a lower-priced crowd that is keeping average room revenues substantially below the levels of before Sept. 11, 2001.
"We have lost a lot of high-rate business travelers," said John A. Fox, senior vice president of PKF Consulting, a company specializing in the hospitality industry. He said many international business executives had been reluctant to visit New York and the economic downturn domestically made many businesses curb travel or opt for more modest lodgings. 
The result is that the occupancy rate of 73.5 percent for the first seven months of this year was just slightly below the rate of 75.3 percent for the corresponding period in 2001, according to PKF's figures. But the average room rate for this year was $183.67 a night compared with $207.28 in the same period last year.
"Demand is reasonably strong, but the market mix has changed," said Arthur Adler, managing director of Jones Land LaSalle Hotels, a brokerage and consulting company. "Airline and hotel promotions are bringing in more of a leisure business than corporate expense account business."
He said the outlook was for more of the same, until the economy rebounds. "Room rates will be difficult to recover until the corporate market develops more confidence in the economy," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leslie W. Himmel, partner in Himmel & Meringoff, an investment firm. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); Stephen B. Siegel, chairman of Insignia/ESG, a brokerage firm. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 6); The sale of 399 Park Avenue brought a record price of $630 a square foot. (Angel Franco/The New York Times); 1515 Broadway (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); 745 Fifth Avenue (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart shows some of the major changes in control of Manhattan office buildings so far this year. (pg. 1) Graph tracks vacancy rates for all categories of office buildings below 62nd Street in Manhattan, and for major submarkets, as of Aug. 2. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BOND MARKETS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BONDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RENTING AND LEASING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

ORGANIZATION: STUDLEY, JULIEN J, CO; BOSTON PROPERTIES 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



403 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Mortgage Rates May Be Low, but Beware the Fees

BYLINE:  By LEAH BETH WARD 

 BODY:
WITH mortgage rates at four-decade lows, homeowners are again racing to refinance their loans. But in the rush to lock in the best possible rate, some people may be paying less attention to the accompanying fees and transaction costs that could easily whittle down, or even wipe out, any potential savings.
 Homeowners looking to lower their monthly payments, and possibly save thousands of dollars over the life of their loans, may become so fixated on rates "that they may not be buying the right program," said Paul Hirschauer, a senior loan consultant in Washington, Conn., for Washington Mutual, the large savings institution based in Seattle. He and other mortgage experts, along with consumer groups, are urging borrowers to shop for closing costs as well as rates. 
 Fees, which generally are 1 percent to 2 percent of the total loan amount, are inescapable. They are necessary, lenders say, to cover the costs of following strict government guidelines for loans -- completing title searches, for example, or credit checks. 
Some lenders may agree to waive certain fees to get or keep your business. But industry experts note that others have been tacking on processing fees or "junk fees" that critics say are intended to squeeze out extra revenue. Recently, a few lenders have even added so-called commitment or refinancing fees, usually around $500, which essentially penalize borrowers who walk away before the closing date, experts say.
Jack M. Guttentag, emeritus professor of finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, says fees are a growing concern for many homeowners who have decided to refinance. "People are writing to me and saying they've already paid $1,000 in fees and now the bank wants another $300," he said.
Professor Guttentag, who runs a Web site for consumers at www.mtgprofessor.com, says the commitment fees, in particular, are new to this latest, particularly competitive round of refinancing. Some banks and mortgage companies, he said, worry that consumers may switch lenders because the Internet gives them access to a wide range of information about loan terms and rates. "Some borrowers have become very shrewd," he said.
Mortgage rates have fallen to levels not seen since the mid-1960's, largely because of the Federal Reserve's moves in recent years to loosen its credit policies to keep the economy moving. By early this month, 30-year fixed-rate mortgages fell to 6.15 percent and 15-year mortgages to 5.56 percent, according to Freddie Mac, formerly the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. As of last week, rates were at 6.18 percent for 30-year mortgages and 5.59 percent for 15-year loans.
AS they post their low rates and lure in customers, lenders and mortgage brokers are also required by law to provide "good faith" estimates of closing costs, to give borrowers an idea of the type of fees they will be expected to pay. Some lenders may break down their fees, but others may bury them in the mortgage documents or simply add them to the loan amount, experts say.
Mark Oleson, the director of the financial counseling clinic at Iowa State University in Ames, said many clients are drawn to loans advertised as having no fees, when in fact the fees are rolled into the principal of the loan at the closing, becoming subject to interest. "People think these are free loans but the appraisal, title search and origination fees show up on the back end and can cost as much as $2,500," Mr. Oleson said.
The federal Department of Housing and Urban Development is proposing rules for the closing process to discourage surprise costs and keep lenders to their up-front good-faith estimate. HUD officials say they will be accepting public comments until the end of October, when the agency is expected to act on the proposal. 
Mr. Guttentag advises borrowers to calculate the total cost of their loan -- and how long it will take to pay off that cost -- instead of trying to break apart the myriad fees. An oft-quoted rule of thumb is that closing costs should not exceed 2 percent of the loan value, but Mr. Guttentag says that such a simple yardstick does not necessarily work with today's more complicated loan products. In some "no cost" or "low cost" deals now being offered, borrowers get a higher interest rate and the bank assumes the closing costs. In other deals, borrowers pay points to get a lower rate. (A point is equal to 1 percent of the total loan amount.)
Mr. Oleson said more borrowers should take on shorter-term loans even if that means increasing their monthly payments. "I think that's where the true value of refinancing lies," he said. "In fact, I'd be less concerned about fees and more interested in trying to do some serious damage to that loan balance." He also advises consumers against using a refinanced loan to consolidate other debt like credit cards by increasing the loan amount. Unless there's a change in spending behavior, consumers could run up their credit card bills again.
Whatever the deal, consumers should be willing to negotiate, and stand their ground, before signing on the dotted line.
Edwin Thompson, 53, of Horsham, Pa., said he went into refinancing with his mind made up. "I told them I wasn't going to get nickeled and dimed to death," he said.
Apparently, he was not. Last April, Mr. Thompson, who owns a pharmaceutical manufacturing company, refinanced a $1 million loan on his $7 million home with Washington Mutual. He received a five-year fixed-rate mortgage at less than 5 percent, which is well below his previous rate of 8 percent. After five years, the rate is adjusted annually. The financing plan, with its favorable terms, is available to clients who have built up substantial equity in a home.
In addition, Mr. Thompson said, the bank agreed to his request to have his mortgage payments deducted from an account at another bank on a date of his choosing, and to exclude taxes and insurance from his mortgage payments. He also chose the closing date and asked that it occur in his office. "My experience was painless," he said.
Many banks, including Washington Mutual, say they tell prospective customers to first approach their current lenders or mortgage brokers because that can be the quickest and least expensive route to refinancing. (After all, the lender already has the pertinent paperwork handy.) To keep their customers from going elsewhere, many lenders will refinance a 30-year loan at 15 years, or even 10 years, even though the shorter terms are less profitable for the bank.
When Kathleen Thaxton, 47, who works at a computer security firm, and her husband, Don Mangus, 43, a teacher, refinanced the mortgage on their home in Arvada, Colo., this year, they stayed with their previous mortgage broker, the Morrison & Sartini Group of Lakewood, Colo. They said that certain fees were waived, and that they paid about half the closing costs, around $1,500, as they did in the early 1990's, when they last refinanced. 
Because the couple had previous credit problems they did not get the lowest rate available. Through World Savings, which is owned by Golden West Financial in Oakland, Calif., the couple borrowed $125,000 on a home worth $225,000 and received an adjustable-rate mortgage with an interest rate of 6.25 percent. The rate is adjustable each month, but after three years they can convert to a 15- or 30-year fixed-rate loan. "We'll most likely try to do the 15-year to make up for all the refinancing time we've lost," Ms. Thaxton said.
Brad Conner, manager of real estate lending for Bank One in Phoenix, said that "there is an increasing movement to 15 years in order to shorten the loan without increasing payments." 
"People like to plow that savings right back into a shorter term," he added.
CONSUMERS seeking to refinance small loan amounts, usually $60,000 or less, may be out of luck: many lenders say they consider such amounts too small to refinance. It may not be cost-effective anyway: borrowers will pay the same fees whether the loan amount is $50,000 or $500,000. The average appraisal fee is around $270, for example, while the title insurance fee is around $450, according to a survey last year by Bankrate.com, which tracks mortgage rates and fees.
To save money on your title insurance, HUD suggests asking your current insurer if the policy can simply be reissued. Mr. Oleson says you can shop for an appraiser, too.
Dan King, president of the Millennium Funding Group in Portland, Ore., says now is a good time to negotiate the cost of a loan, and to save money. For a fee of one point, he said, you can borrow $200,000 for 30 years at 6.5 percent, for a monthly principal and interest payment of $1,264. Or, you can avoid points and pay a rate of 6.75 percent for a payment of $1,297, or $33 more a month, he said. 
"If you stay in the house less than five years, you're better off paying the higher rate and avoiding the points," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathleen Thaxton with her son, Sean Mangus, and dog, Bilbo. The family saved by refinancing its home with the previous broker. (Barry Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE RATES (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (67%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%)

PERSON: WARD, LEAH BETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



404 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES; 
Stock Options?Try Union Dues

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
REMEMBER the new economy? Back when young workers were hopeful and dewy-eyed and planning their retirements to Juan-les-Pins, France? True, they also were falling asleep at their desks from overwork, earning barely enough to buy their ramen noodles and sometimes going without health insurance. But it didn't matter: their cups ran over with stock options.
 Then the dot-com bubble burst and they learned just how much -- or how little -- they were worth. Had they only had union representation. 
 "A union contract gives you an enforceable right," said Hanan B. Kolko, a lawyer at Meyer, Suozzi, English & Klein, which represents dozens of unions. "It gives people protection from unfair treatment."
Union membership has declined over the last two decades, but that might be changing as more young professionals accept unions. A survey this year by Peter D. Hart Research Associates for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. found that 58 percent of young workers, those 18 to 34, would vote to be unionized if given the chance. 
"When you're young and out of school and you enter the workplace, you're willing to trade long-term employment security for potential opportunities," said Amy B. Dean, 38, the founding director of Working Partnerships USA, a nonprofit organization for contingent and temporary employees in Silicon Valley. "That was particularly true through the 1990's. But a few years into your work experience, you realize you're coming up short and you begin to feel disappointed with your employment and your employer."
A union provides job security, which isn't a bad idea in this economy. A 1999 Hart study found that young union members are more likely than young nonunion employees to have full-time, permanent jobs (74 percent versus 49 percent), earn more than $20,000 a year (70 percent versus 38 percent), be covered by a pension plan with an employer contribution (63 percent versus 39 percent) and have an employer-provided health plan (76 percent versus 40 percent).
Perhaps no one could benefit from unionization more than so-called free agents, the 8.6 million independent contractors and 1.2 million temporary workers who have become a pivotal part of the working world. More than half of all temporary workers are under 35; temps in the 18-to-34 age group earn 16.5 percent less, on average, than permanent workers. Only 15 percent of temps have retirement plans, and only 5 percent receive employer-provided health insurance.
Mr. Kolko says today's free agents, which also include freelancers, "are where workers were 100 years ago." 
"They were disorganized and not treated well," he said. "Their concerns weren't being presented in an organized way and they didn't receive statutory protections."
How do you mobilize today's workers? By law, you cannot be fired for supporting a union or trying to bring one into your workplace. But it's a different story for freelancers or independent contractors, as Raj Jayadev, 27, discovered. Two years ago, he took an $8-an-hour temp job through Manpower, the temporary employment agency, as an assembler at a plant run by a contractor of Hewlett-Packard in Sunnyvale, Calif. When he tried to organize long-term temporary workers, he was handed a pink slip. He appealed his firing to the state labor commissioner. He was not reinstated, but the commissioner ruled that his right to express health and safety concerns at work had been violated. Mr. Jayadev was awarded a week's back pay by Manpower, amounting to about $240.
Mr. Jayadev says the current union model needs to be overhauled to entice young people. "You have to meet them where their identities are," he said. "You can't stand outside of the gates with a flier; there are no gates. You need to go where people are grouping."
Unions have been trying to attract more young people. In 1996, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. created Union Summer, a month-long internship that teaches students about unions and union organizing. Students work in union offices in various cities, attending rallies and meeting with union leaders. This year, the program had more than 500 applicants for 150 slots. Two years ago, Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union representing New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut, created the Youth Brigade, a paid summer internship that also gives young people work experience in the labor movement.
Their efforts may be paying off, at least on college campuses. Students have organized on behalf of graduate student teaching assistants, sanitation workers and food service workers. And there have been some triumphs in the working world, notably when nearly 10,000 so-called permatemps at Microsoft filed a federal lawsuit against the company 10 years ago to get benefits. In 2000, they won a $97 million settlement.
Advocacy groups are also popping up. One of them, Working Today, represents independent workers, including freelancers, consultants, temps and contingent employees. "Freelancers need to have their own organization to build a constituency to advocate for them politically and with employers," said Sara Horowitz, the group's executive director in Manhattan. "Unions come from the beginning of time, in different shapes and forms -- crafts, unions, and guilds. Every era of a new kind of work leads to a new kind of representation."
She's right. Keep that in mind the next time your boss offers stock options instead of health insurance, refuses to give you a raise or won't promote you to full-time status.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%) LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: MEYER SUOZZI ENGLISH & KLEIN PC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (70%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (70%)

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY; KOLKO, HANAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



405 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Ensuring Competition For Military Contracts

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
THESE are halcyon days for military contractors. The Bush administration has raised its targets for military spending, and the president's single-mindedness about attacking Iraq is sending the shares of Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and others skyward.
 Tax dollars pay for military projects. Yet the way the Defense Department contracts with its suppliers, experts say, gives few incentives for good performance. 
 Last week brought a case in point. On Monday, the Air Force extended by three years Lockheed Martin's share of a contract for a long-overdue chain of high-altitude satellites, intended to spot enemy missile launches.
The contract, initially priced at $1.8 billion in 1996, will now cost $4.2 billion. For failing to deliver on time and within its budget, Lockheed was penalized about $95 million over the last few years. The Air Force admitted that it shared the blame, having tinkered with the specifications of the satellites. 
A law required the Air Force to either recertify or cancel the ballooning program -- and 20 others like it -- in May. Recertification came on May 2, but Lockheed's share price barely quavered. It also hardly budged when the contract was extended last Tuesday. Most likely, analysts and investors had correctly assumed that recertification, and a bundle of new money, would arrive.
They might also have assumed that Lockheed's poor performance would not cost the company any consideration for future contracts. During the last 15 or 20 years, said William P. Rogerson, a professor of economics at Northwestern University, the Defense Department has lost much of its ability to punish poor performers. 
"There had always been, over the medium run, relatively intense competition to get the next program," he said. "You did that by performing well on this program. That's becoming less and less the case."
Military contracts are increasingly of the blockbuster, multibillion-dollar variety, he said. Only one or two "super-prime" contractors -- often behemoths resulting from the merger wave of the 1990's -- can legitimately compete for each of the big new projects, he said. Of money paid to the Air Force's top 50 suppliers in fiscal year 2001, more than half went to the top two -- Lockheed Martin and Boeing.
Even if a contractor does a poor job, the government may have no choice but to buy from it again. For one thing, the company may be the only one with the skill to build a major, sophisticated system. And denying a company any part of a contract may put an otherwise valuable competitor out of business forever.
Often, as in the case of Lockheed Martin's satellites, the Pentagon can't threaten to use an alternative military system to keep up the pressure on a supplier. That wasn't always the case. When F-18 fighters were being built, Professor Rogerson said, they had to compete with F-14's and later with the Joint Strike Fighter.
Steven C. Grundman, a former deputy under secretary of defense who now works for Charles River Associates, a consulting firm in Boston, said growing contract areas, like surveillance, could offer competition among ground-based, air-based and space-based platforms.
Professor Rogerson said he considered this type of competition -- among suppliers of competing products at a given point in time -- far more important than any incentives that can be built into a single contract. Setting incentives can be difficult, he said, because contractors know far more about their productive abilities and technical challenges than the government does.
IT'S also hard to open up competition to more companies. Professor Rogerson suggested requiring that components of big systems be "plug and play," so that several contractors could bid on easily integrated parts of the same system. 
Another proposal, said an expert from the military establishment who insisted on anonymity, was to keep at least two companies in on a contract right up until production. Yet the armed forces rarely regard the gains of competition as large enough to justify doubling expenses. On the other hand, the expert said, allowing more companies, even those that couldn't actually mass-produce an arms system, to stay in competition longer might promote innovative ideas.
Creativity could be especially important given the range of terror threats facing the United States. "There's a real issue today, with 9/11, with all the different varieties of terrorist threats," he said. "You have to really wonder whether these demands for national security writ large aren't going to dominate 'Do we need another tank? Do we need another fighter?' "

GRAPHIC: Chart shows percentage of all Defense Department major project dollars paid to the 10 largest contractors from 1997-2001. (Source: Defense Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (95%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (97%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (58%); BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (91%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (97%); NOC (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



406 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Oil Prices And the Drums Of War

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
SOME traders in the world petroleum market believe that oil is priced at a war premium. Resolve outstanding issues with Iraq, the reasoning goes, and oil, which has been trading around $30 a barrel this summer, becomes a good bit cheaper. 
 That line of thought seems prevalent among investors. Prices of big, integrated oil companies have outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index this year. 
 David Wheeler, a vice president and oil industry analyst at J. P. Morgan , talked last week about Iraq and big oil. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. Spot oil is up 15 percent since mid-June. Is there a war premium in the price?

A. There are those who say that this is a weak-fundamentals oil market inflated by a war premium. We don't agree.
I don't think there is that much of a war premium because at this point demand is growing faster than supply. Right now OPEC is not producing enough. Global oil supplies are down about 2 percent versus a year ago, and demand is up about 1 percent. And a year ago, prices were about $26 to $27 a barrel.

Q. So even if there is a war with Iraq, you don't see prices spiking much from here?

A. I think upside price risk is very controllable. The case of an uncontrollable upside would be if Saudi Arabia were unwilling or unable to increase production. But the odds of that happening are very, very long.
I am not a Middle East expert, but I don't imagine the Iraqis have had a lot of money to upgrade their missiles. 
Right now Iraq is just not producing that much oil. They are pumping 700,000 to 800,000 barrels a day. A decade ago, they were at 3.5 million barrels a day.
The Saudis, who have the capacity to pump an additional 4 million barrels a day above their current production level, have pledged to make up the shortfall if Iraqi oil becomes unavailable.

Q. Would oil prices soften if there were a change in government in Iraq?

A. It will take a long, long time for Iraq to gear up production. At best, they could keep production flat for two years. Then they could start to grow it a bit. They have huge reserves.

Q. For the last two years investors have been assuming that oil prices would soften and have basically refused to bid up the integrated oil stocks. Is that view warranted?

A. The stock prices reflect an expected oil price of $19 to $20 a barrel. That said, the stocks have been pretty much flat this year, which means they have outperformed the stock market by 20 percent or more.
Our view is that oil prices are likely to stay higher than most in the equity market think. We are expecting oil prices to be in the mid-$20-a-barrel range all the way through next year. That is the good news. 
The other piece of good news for the stocks is that the integrated oil companies have characteristics that in today's market ought to be highly valued, things like accounting transparency, excellent cash-flow generation, very strong balance sheets and an average dividend yield of around 3 percent.

Q. And yet you have a neutral rating on the sector. What is the bad news here?

A. The negative news is that we have extremely weak refining margins because oil prices have moved up and global economic growth remains weak. That makes it tough to have any pricing power for refined products, which normally account for about 30 percent of profits. We think refining margins could remain under pressure for the next six to nine months.
In addition, earnings momentum for the group is slowing, as weak refining margins are negatively impacting higher oil prices. 
Finally, relative to the overall market, these stocks are no longer cheap. We estimate the group is trading at 15 times this year's earnings, which is about a 10 percent discount to the S.& P. 500 multiple. In the past, the discount has been in the 25 percent to 30 percent range.

Q. Are there stocks in the sector that you like, despite your overall neutral rating?

A. Our top two picks are BP and Occidental Petroleum. BP is our top pick among the five supermajors because they have industry-leading volume growth, an accelerating cost-reduction program in the second half of this year, and they are attractively valued versus the other supermajors. We think fair value for the stock is 15 percent to 20 percent above current levels.
Occidental is our favorite among midsized companies. They will be a huge beneficiary of high oil prices because 85 percent of their production is oil, as opposed to natural gas. Their earnings are most sensitive to changes in oil prices. Second, they have no refining assets, which means they are not exposed to the weak refining market. And management has transformed the asset base from middling to top tier. They have not yet been given credit by the market for that internal change.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Wheeler 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); SPOT MARKET (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%) MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; WHEELER, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



407 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/G. Paul Matthews; 
Matthews Asian Growth and Income Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
OUTSIDE Japan, the Pacific region is a roaring tiger, says G. Paul Matthews, who runs the $151 million Matthews Asian Growth and Income fund. 
 "I'm a long-term believer in the prospects for above-average continued growth in Asia," Mr. Matthews said from his office in San Francisco. "I lived and worked in Hong Kong in the 1980's, and I witnessed firsthand the extraordinary achievements of Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea as newly industrialized countries." 
 Still, he cautioned, the road may be bumpy. "I would expect that the development will continue to be accompanied by geopolitical and economic crises," he said, "but that doesn't detract from my long-term opinion of the region."
To reduce risk, Mr. Matthews buys dividend-paying stocks and dollar-denominated convertible bonds -- generally, bonds that convert to common stock at a preset price. About five years ago, the convertible bonds accounted for roughly 70 percent of the fund's assets. Now, the allocation is about 40 percent, he said, because yields have fallen.
Over all, he says, the fund is "a less risky way to play the region."
The fund returned 13.4 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, placing first among the 73 funds tracked by Morningstar Inc. that invest in the Pacific region outside Japan. That group lost 6.8 percent, on average, versus a 11.7 percent loss for the Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe Australasia Far East index.
The fund returned 24.3 percent in the last 12 months, versus 10 percent for its group and a 7.2 percent loss in the index.
Mr. Matthews, 46, is chief executive of Matthews International Capital Management, the fund's adviser, which manages about $570 million in six mutual funds that invest in the Pacific region.
To pick the 50 or so holdings of the Growth and Income fund from eight Pacific countries, Mr. Matthews uses computer screens every two weeks. The screens look for companies that had above-average price-to-earnings and price-to-book multiples over the last year and are expected to do so in the next 12 months.
The screens also identify companies with strong cash flows and dividend yields exceeding local market averages. Over all, the portfolio companies yield about 4 percent, compared with about 2 percent for the index.
"A number of Asian companies have sustained high dividend payouts because they are quasi-government agencies with access to capital markets," Mr. Matthews said. "We're more excited about companies that use operating cash to make dividend payments."
HE finds high dividend payers mostly among utilities and domestic consumer and financial services companies, he said, adding that the dividends mitigate short-term volatility. He generally avoids manufacturing exporters, whose shares tend to be more volatile.
Today, he says he is finding especially good value among Asian utilities. "In Hong Kong, opportunities for electric, gas and telephone utilities are limited because only eight million people live there," he said. "But the opening of the borders to mainland China is creating new long-term opportunities."
He sells shares when a company's yield falls below the local market index or when its finances deteriorate. 
In March, Mr. Matthews bought shares of Singapore Exchange, which operates the Singapore stock exchange, for 1.32 Singapore dollars, or 72 American cents. They now trade at 1.19 Singapore dollars, or 67 American cents. The company, which pays a 6 percent dividend, is "well positioned to continue in its role as a respected regional exchange," he said, "and to continue developing a range of new products."
For example, he said, management recently introduced several new index investments.
He also likes Huaneng Power International, a Chinese utility that is traded on the Hong Kong exchange and as American depository receipts on the New York Stock Exchange. He began buying the A.D.R.'s in July 2000 at $14.25; they now trade at $30.85. The company's long-term prospects are very favorable, Mr. Matthews said, despite short-term concerns that government regulators will tightly control utility prices as the power industry develops. The company's recent acquisition of the Shandong Huaneng Power Company, another Chinese utility, should help earnings growth, he added.
Mr. Matthews owns preferred shares of LG Household and Health Care, an affiliate of the LG Group of South Korea. While consumer products are not historically associated with Korean growth companies, he said, "this company has the dominant market share of products under the kitchen sink" and on bathroom counters. 
Despite its less-than-exciting business, he added, "it's a good, stable business that should continue to pay dividends." The shares now yield about 5 percent.
He first bought shares in October 2001 for 13,764.79 Korean won, or $10.68. They closed on Friday at 20,500 won, or $17.10. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fund manager G. Paul Matthews says he is finding especially good value among stocks of Asian utilities. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) Chart: "Matthews Asian Growth and Income" Category: Pacific/Asia excluding JapanNet assets: $151 millionInception: September 1994Manager: G. Paul Matthews since inceptionMinimum purchase: $2,500 ($500 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 34%3-year annualized return through Thursday: +13.4%Category average: -6.8% Country breakdown Other: 6%Indonesia: 1%Thailand: 7%Singapore: 7%South Korea: 24%China/Hong Kong: 55% Fees Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.90% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); CASH FLOW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMMON STOCK (73%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: MATTHEWS INTERNATIONAL CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (67%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; MATTHEWS, G PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) HONG KONG (94%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SINGAPORE (90%); THAILAND (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



408 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Sales of Municipal Bonds Soar, but Risks Loom

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIMELMAN 

 BODY:
MUNICIPAL bonds, which provide tax-sheltered income, have long played a supporting role in many portfolios. 
 But as stocks have continued to disappoint, and as yields on Treasuries have declined sharply, investors have been piling into munis at a record pace. 
 "Brokers are hearing people saying: 'I have to be invested in munis. Buy me something,' " said Jim Lynch, the president of Lynchmunicipalbond.com, a firm based in New York that advises investors interested in building muni bond portfolios. "While it's not quite the tulip bulb craze, it does have that feel to it." 
Fed by that surge in investor demand, and all too happy to take advantage of low interest rates, states and other public entities are on track to issue a record dollar volume of municipal bonds in 2002. The amount of municipal bonds issued this year through Tuesday -- $183 billion -- exceeds the amount for the corresponding period last year by 22 percent, according to Thomson Financial.
During the first eight months of this year, municipal bond funds have taken in $17.4 billion in net cash from investors, an increase of 36 percent over the corresponding period last year, according to AMG Data Services. That is a far cry from 2000, the peak year of the bull market in stocks, when muni funds had $13.8 billion in net outflows. 
Mr. Lynch and other muni watchers say many investors, however, may not be aware of the potential pitfalls in municipal bonds. 
Holders of munis, as well as other fixed-income investments, face the risk that rising interest rates and inflation will erode bonds' value. With interest rates and inflation at low historical levels, any increase in rates would cut the price of bonds.
The likelihood of default is low for the vast majority of municipal bonds. But the default rate jumps significantly for bonds tied to some public works projects, particularly some backed not by government entities but by for-profit companies like airlines and department stores.
Moreover, many bond watchers are convinced that prices of relatively safe, state-backed munis could drop if rating agencies continue to downgrade debt of states like California, New Jersey and North Carolina in the coming year. "Right now, many muni investors aren't being circumspect enough about what they are getting into," Mr. Lynch said. "If it's a bond and it's tax free, that's good enough."
Traditionally, investors in high tax brackets have sought out municipal bonds because their interest income is exempt from federal taxes. Bonds issued within an investor's home state provide relief from state and local taxes as well.
BUT market events have given munis a bloom that extends beyond their tax advantages. The stock market, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500 index, is down 22.5 percent this year, after two calendar years of losses. By contrast, a 10-year, AAA-rated municipal bond hadan interest rate of 3.48 percent through Tuesday, on average, giving an investor in the 30 percent tax bracket a taxable-equivalent yield of 4.97 percent. This yield comes with little risk of default, a concern for muni investors.
That yield also easily beats the 4 percent yield on the taxable 10-year Treasury note, according to Thomson Financial. 
The yield differences between munis and Treasuries become more pronounced as maturities lengthen. A 30-year muni rated AAA yielded 4.79 percent, or a taxable-equivalent of 6.84 percent for an investor in the 30 percent tax bracket. That is two percentage points more than the 30-year Treasury.
While yields on munis have fallen over the last year, Treasury yields have dropped more sharply, thanks in part to the flood into Treasuries that helped push up their prices. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.
Muni bond mutual funds have generated respectable total returns: 7.1 percent this year through Thursday, on average, versus a loss of 20.2 percent for domestic equity funds, according to Morningstar Inc.
But some major risks threaten munis' value. One of the most important is the possibility of rising interest rates. A rate increase of just one percentage point would drive down the value of a 20-year muni bond with a 5 percent annual coupon or cash yield by almost 12 percent, according to Christopher Cordaro, a certified financial planner and chief investment officer at RegentAtlantic Capital, an financial planning firm in Chatham, N.J. 
"In an environment of low interest rates, people are trying to go out on the yield curve to find additional yield and that is particularly dangerous," said Mr. Cordaro, referring to the practice of acquiring bonds with longer maturities. "If interest rates go up, they will lose a substantial amount in principal. And there isn't a lot of room for interest rates to go down."
The value of a two-year muni would decline less than 2 percent if interest rates rose by one point, he said.
Still, some bond managers say the Federal Reserve is unlikely to raise short-term rates soon, given the slow pace of economic recovery. "Right now we are in a period of modest growth, with low to declining inflation," said Mark McCray, an executive vice president and municipal bond portfolio manager at Pimco Funds. "In such an environment, current levels of interest rates don't look out of line."
Investors also face the risk that a muni issuer will default -- stop making payments on the bonds -- though that risk is small for most bonds, rating agencies say. One agency, Fitch Ratings, conducted a study in 1999 of municipal bonds that came to market starting in 1979 and found that munis in traditional sectors -- state, county and city bonds backed by the taxing power of the issuer and used to pay for projects like schools, sewers and roads -- are among the the least risky debt classes. They generally have default rates of 0.01 percent to 0.40 percent, the study found, compared with 1.49 percent for all municipal bonds. 
By contrast, the riskiest sector -- industrial development bonds, often backed by corporations rather than public institutions -- had default rates of 15 percent, according to the study. These bonds are often unrated or are rated below investment grade.
When Kmart filed for bankruptcy this year, more than $218 million in municipal bonds tied to the department store chain went into default. Many of the bonds were issued to build stores for Kmart, and investors were to be repaid with revenue from Kmart lease payments. Investors in airport bonds are holding debt backed by commercial airlines that are using the proceeds to build hangars, baggage-handling facilities and other capital projects.
As the value of many of these bonds has faltered, yields have often shot up to 15 percent or higher, making them enticing to investors seeking outsized outcome in a time of low interest rates. But bond experts say they might want to stay away unless they can analyze the bonds carefully and even visit the project sites.
"No investor should be in this kind of debt unless he has kicked the tires," says Christopher Ryon, who manages four municipal bond funds for the Vanguard Group. Mr. Ryon said that Vanguard buys nonrated debt for its high-yield fund, but only after conducting its own research.
Even if a bond is not in immediate danger of default, it may be downgraded by a rating agency, potentially hurting the value. For investors who need to sell bonds from time to time, or who invest in bond funds that trade in and out of bonds, the risk can be very real.
Analysts and muni fund managers alike are concerned about how the weak economy of the past year will affect the debt of state governments. While no state has defaulted on its debt since the Depression, some states have been downgraded over the last year and a half, including California, New Jersey, Wisconsin and North Carolina. In August, a report from another rating agency, Moody's Investors Service, said 15 states, including California, Connecticut, New Jersey, Virginia and Wisconsin, now carried "negative outlooks," suggesting that some could receive downgrades in the next 18 months.
NEW YORK investors, however, have some good news: New York City and the state averted potential credit problems in the year after the Sept. 11 attacks because of active budget management and, in the state's case, strong reserves, according to a recent report by Standard & Poor's. As a result, S.& P. said it maintained the general obligation bond ratings of the city and state, which had been raised within a year before the attacks. 
Because many investors invest primarily in bonds of their home states -- for the added tax advantages -- local fiscal problems can weigh heavily on their portfolios. For diversification, Mr. Lynch said that at least 25 percent of a muni portfolio should be in bonds issued outside the home state.
William M. Fitzgerald, managing director of Nuveen Investments, said he is convinced that more downgrades are ahead. He has decided to reduce the amount of state general obligation bonds in his portfolios while buying more industrial development bonds tied to water and sewer revenues and public power bonds tied to electric utilities.
"The market really hasn't priced in the risk for a really protracted budget problems with the states," Mr. Fitzgerald said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some municipal bonds are tied to airlines and retailers like Kmart, above, leaving them more vulnerable to potential default. (Reuters) Chart: "Tax-Free Edge"For investors in the 30 percent tax bracket, AAA-rated municipal bands are outperforming Treasury issues of similar maturities. YIELDS ON 5-YEAR MATURITIES* Municipal bonds: 2.55% Taxable equivalent: 3.64%Treasury notes: 3.05 YIELDS ON 10-YEAR MATURITIES* Municipal bonds: 3.48 Taxable equivalent: 4.97Treasury notes: 4.00 YIELDS ON 30-YEAR MATURITIES* Municipal bonds: 4.79 Taxable equivalent: 6.84Treasury notes: 4.82 *As of Sept. 10(Source: Thomson Financial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (94%); BONDS (94%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TAX LAW (73%); PRICE CUTTING (63%); RETAILERS (61%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; SALES; DEFAULTING; TAX EXEMPTIONS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); AMG DATA SERVICES (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: KIMELMAN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



409 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HUNTS POINT; 
A Home for Fulton Market Tips Its Cap to the Sea

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
The Fulton Fish Market, which has been housed for most of its life in grimy industrial buildings in Lower Manhattan, will probably find itself in a candy-colored, nautically flavored structure when it moves to its new home in Hunts Point in the Bronx.
 On Tuesday, the New York City Art Commission approved a design for a sleek new market whose six entrances will be flanked by twin masts flying snappy nautical flags and shielded by canopies hanging from stainless steel cables. 
 The building, designed by Cybul & Cybul Architects, a New Jersey firm, is scheduled to open in summer 2004. Ground for the project was broken last November. 
According to Martin Cybul, a partner in the firm, the main selling floor will evoke a city street, dominated by a 40-foot-wide center aisle lined with booths that will accommodate wholesalers offering everything from gray sea trout to red hake to croaker to conch meat. Company offices, reached via ornamental steel staircases, will overlook the main selling floor.
The selling area will also be fully refrigerated, allowing vendors to display their products without burying them in ice, as they must often do at the current market, which is part indoor, part outdoor. The existing market violates new federal Food and Drug Administration regulations that prohibit selling seafood on the street.
The move will place New York's major wholesale seafood market next to the meat and produce terminal markets already located in Hunts Point, allowing restaurateurs to pick up their Loligo squid, their flowering kale and their lamb hindshank by making a single excursion to the Bronx.
The fish market moved to Hunts Point temporarily after Sept. 11, 2001, but returned a month later. 
At the hearing Tuesday, members of the Arts Commission objected only to the proposed color of the roof, forest green. According to Mr. Cybul, members expressed concern about how the dark green would contrast with the exterior walls, which will be covered with blue and white tiles with red highlights.
The Economic Development Corporation, which is in charge of the site, agreed to work with the architects to suggest alternatives.
Since the new market, at nearly 300,000 square feet of space, will be larger than its predecessor, it will be easier for companies to expand, a feature that city officials hope will allow the market to add several hundred new jobs. Approximately 600 people already work at the market. 
In addition, the plan is designed to allow trucks to move around the site more smoothly. Loading docks will allow up to 20 trucks to unload at a single time, and up to twice as quickly as they can at the current location, which has no docks.
That also means less idling, an issue important to Hunts Point community groups, who have long charged that local truck traffic contributes to high local asthma rates. SETH KUGEL

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Neighborhood Report pages last Sunday about the new Fulton Fish Market in the Bronx misstated the day on which the New York City Art Commission approved the design. It was Sept. 9, not Sept. 10.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For the new fish market, bright colors and nautical accents. (Cybul & Cybul Architects) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEAFOOD (90%); FISHES (90%); FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (78%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (72%); CITIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); JOB CREATION (61%); ASTHMA (50%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; FULTON FISH MARKET (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; HUNTS POINT (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



410 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down: Shoes Get Naughty 

BYLINE:  By RUTH LA FERLA 

 BODY:
FARIDAH CRISPE cruised the shoe department at Jeffrey New York in downtown Manhattan last week, considering two options: a pair of shapely Manolo Blahnik lace-up boots, or a high-heeled sandal by Chloe, racily decorated with a latticework of straps. "With shoes like this, I think in terms of comfort and investment," Mrs. Crispe said.
 When her husband, Nick, shot her a skeptical glance, she conceded that the shoes were more sexy than practical. "With shoes, it's always that thing," she said, sighing. "Fashion versus comfort." Clearly in her mind, fashion had captured the lead. 
 Mrs. Crispe is typical of the legions of style-struck shoppers, who, as fall approaches, find themselves scouring shoe departments for that singular object that will form the keystone of their wardrobes. This year, such objects have a slightly wicked twist. 
Despite prices that may hover in the $500 range, sandals with ribbons that snake up the calves and boots that lace corset-style at the rear are giving an insolent kick to an otherwise sluggish retail season.
"Even in these tough economic times when consumers are looking for bargains, there will always be women who are really into footwear," said Marshal Cohen, a president of NPD Fashionworld, which tracks apparel and footwear trends. "They are the ones driving business in the upper price points." He added that while sales of women's fashion dress shoes in the first six months of this year totaled less than $10 million in the United States, a drop of 4 percent from a year earlier, sales of shoes costing more than $100 reached nearly $800,000 -- up 3 percent from last year. He said that boots are leading the way in most markets except in the Sunbelt states, where sandals that lace up the calves are selling strongly. 
"When women spend their money, they want to make sure that what they buy is a statement," said Robert Burke, Bergdorf Goodman's fashion director.
While the bondage look traces its provenance to the Victorian era, the style was revived most recently by Carine Roitfeld, French Vogue's influential editor in chief, when she made lace-up sandals and pumps her signature footwear. 
And where Ms. Roitfeld treads, others follow. Currently at Bergdorf Goodman, which recently doubled the size of its designer shoe department, women are buying shoes by Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Alexander McQueen that feature elaborate lacing or corsetry detailing. "They represent the evolution of the boot," Mr. Burke said. "They draw your attention up the leg with lacing." 
At Barneys New York, where shoe business has also been vibrant enough to warrant doubling the designer shoe department, top performers include Michel Perry boots that lace up the back, as well as decadently sexy novelties like Christian Louboutin's black lace boots. "They remind you of a veil in an old 30's picture," said Julie Gilhart, the store's fashion director. At other stores, mid-level designers have also gotten into the act. Nathalie M., and X.O.X.O. are both offering less expensive versions of the shoes and boots.
Designers know very well that such styles can be powerful weapons in the arsenal of seduction. Alexandra Neel, who is perhaps best known this year for her saucy corset boot, which laces up the back, said her work, like that of many designers, is clearly inspired by lingerie. 
"I wanted to emphasize the subtle connection between elegance and provocation," Ms. Neel said.
As the novelist Josephine Hart observes in the current issue of Vogue, "Corporate lawyers, heads of studios and government advisers will tie shoes with silver or gold cord, or fold thick bands of leather in a crisscross pattern, and tell you it's the fashion. Indeed it is. It always has been," Ms. Hart goes on. "What is buttoned-up or tightly laced . . . must be undone -- and the more slowly the better."
The obvious association with bondage makes certain shoes popular with men, said Suzanne Ferriss, an editor of "Footnotes: On Shoes," a collection of scholarly essays (Rutgers University Press, 2001). "But women take pleasure in them for entirely different reasons, reasons that have to do with how they think such styles make them feel or look." 
Calf-binding shoes are mightily tempting to Danielle McGraw, who works in the legal department of Lehman Brothers on Wall Street. "To use a quaint phrase, they show a nice turn of leg," said Ms. McGraw, who was dressed the other day in a gray cashmere sweater and black gabardine trousers. In the world of finance, she said, "those snaky styles just wouldn't cut it." But for evening, she said, she may well consider one of the season's new tie-me-up looks. 
Ms. Gilhart of Barneys has been wearing high-heeled sandals that lace to the knee. "I don't think of them as provocative," Ms. Gilhart said, though she acknowledged that strangers, mostly men, have tossed compliments her way. "The shoes are very sexy, " she conceded.
Kimberle Bibb, a fashion designer who works at Anna, an East Village boutique, was at Bergdorf's last week and had her heart set on finding a pair of luxurious -- but flat-heeled -- boots. "I have three herniated discs -- I have no choice," Ms. Bibb explained. Just the same, she found herself trying on a pair of black Gucci lace-ups perched on vertiginous heels. Would she buy them? "I don't know," she said. 
A moment later she turned somewhat abruptly, addressing the salesman. "I'll take them," she said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: HIGH STRUNG -- Alexandra Neel's corset boot, top, as shown in the Bergdorf catalog; Alexander McQueen's bordello boot, above, seen in Vogue; and Giuseppe Zanotti's spindle-heeled pump, below, are lingerie for the feet.; FOOTBINDING -- Grosgrain ribbon wraps the ankle of this prism-heeled shoe by Gucci, above. Jil Sanders's open-work pump, as seen in Bergdorf Goodman's fall catalog, below, and Tom Ford's red velvet sandals for Yves Saint Laurent, bottom, have kinky personas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); LINGERIE (76%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%) SHOES AND BOOTS 

PERSON: LA FERLA, RUTH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



411 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
In Airport Security, Think Low Tech

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
AIRLINES want to eliminate virtually all human interaction they have with passengers. One airline executive calls it "from desktop to destination." To cut costs, the carriers are pursuing a Kubrickian universe in which customers will buy tickets over the Internet, pick up boarding passes at self-service kiosks and flash an encoded "trusted traveler" card to walk through security scanners.
 A passenger might not exchange words with anyone or look another person in the eyes until a flight attendant offers a drink. 
 In the rush to implement all this, few people are acknowledging that human interaction is often a key part of security, and that its elimination could have dire consequences for airline safety. Executives and federal officials talk on and on about building facial recognition devices and creating huge databases, but many security experts say airport security would be more effective if it took advantage of that most old-fashioned of safeguards: human intelligence. It will be years, if not decades, before machines can reliably perform certain crucial kinds of data gathering and behavioral analysis that people can be trained to do.
The kind of intense face-to-face scrutiny that these experts advocate is noticeably absent from American airports, despite the mad scurry to tighten security since the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"I believe in the human factor," said John D. Woodward Jr., a senior analyst who studies security and terrorism issues at the Rand Corporation. "It can give us bad things like racial profiling. But it can also mean a customs agent at the Canadian border sees someone who is acting suspiciously and pulls them aside and finds bombs intended to blow something up. You don't want full automation, that's for sure."
Mr. Woodward, who worked in Africa and Asia for the Central Intelligence Agency, said he is an "unreconstructed operations officer." He belongs to the school of thought that human intelligence gathering -- whether in an Algerian casbah or an airport concourse -- produces information that eludes machines. For example, he said, trained plainclothes guards, a security measure not yet adopted at airports, can zero in on someone who stands out in a crowd.
Many experts point to the interrogation techniques used by El Al, the Israeli airline, as a perfect example of the kind of human interaction that enhances security. Guards scrutinize each passenger. Backpacks are rifled through, journals are skimmed and every passenger faces a barrage of pointed questions: Where are you coming from? Why do you want to visit Israel? Where will you be staying? Guards are on the lookout for, among other things, a shift in the eyes, a quaver in the voice or a bead of sweat rolling down the forehead.
"This is probably the most important aspect of airport security and security overall that we can institute," said Jeff Schlanger, the chief operating officer of security services at Kroll Associates, an international risk-assessment company. "There is a protocol that can be taught that starts with simple questioning designed to draw out answers which may lead to suspicions. And if a suspicion is aroused, there is a protocol for resolving that suspicion."
The only questions consistently asked of air travelers in the United States were the ones virtually everyone considered ridiculous: Have your bags been in your possession at all times? Has anyone given you any objects to bring on board? That interrogation was so pro forma that airlines had begun adding the questions to the self-service kiosks, so that someone could reply to them by touching "yes" or "no" on a screen. As absurdly ineffective as the questions were, though, at least forcing a passenger to answer them face-to-face kept open the possibility that an airline worker might spot some sort of suspicious behavior.
The government scrapped the questions last month, but has yet to replace them with another security filter. It is also developing a more sophisticated computer alert system to flag passengers who should be searched thoroughly.
The current system, called Computer Assisted Passenger Preview Screening, or Capps, is considered by many critics to be an example of automated security that is not only ineffective, but clogs up the system. It works by having a computer check each traveler for certain red flags -- for example, whether the ticket is one-way or whether it was bought with cash. If a marker shows up, then the computer alerts guards to search the person, no matter how obvious it is that the flier poses a minimal threat.
This has led, for example, to a large number of elderly people being frisked and wanded, because many of them pay for their tickets with cash. And if there were a valid reason to treat the passenger with suspicion anyway, a simple body and bag search would probably fall short of what needs to be done. "Automatically searching a person who has raised a flag, without speaking to that person, without questioning that person, is not really getting our biggest bang for the buck," Mr. Schlanger said.
BUT people have pointed out that the kind of lengthy questioning done by El Al would jam up an aviation system the size of America's. Experts say the questioning has to be implemented with a "trusted traveler" program, which would allow people who pass a background check to speed through security by showing a card. Properly establishing such a program, though, will take a long time and be logistically complicated, not to mention potentially costly to the taxpayer, said Mr. Woodward, who has been trying to develop a theoretical model.
But there are many ways in which machines can help security. For example, one company that works with casino security in Las Vegas, Systems Research and Development, said it has created a program that allows a computer to coordinate various databases to find red flags buried deep in someone's background.
For example, the average airline reservations agent probably would not be able to tell at a glance whether a passenger's address is the same as one used by Mohamed Atta, the leader of the Sept. 11 hijackers. But a computer searching through the proper databases could quickly determine that.
In the end, though, even that system requires human judgment. For it to work efficiently, a person has to decide whether a computer alert merits closer inspection of the traveler. A 90-year-old disabled woman from Cairo, Mr. Atta's hometown, should not necessarily command the same scrutiny as a 25-year-old man who went to Afghanistan at the same time as Mr. Atta.
"What appeals to people is the American way: 'Let's do it with a machine,' " said Paul Ekman, a psychologist who studies facial expressions and body gestures at the Human Interaction Laboratory at the University of California at San Francisco. "In this country, we have a dream that we can use machines to look at human beings. We should use human beings to look at human beings."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); AIRLINES (92%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (90%); TERRORISM (87%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); BIOMETRICS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (72%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (69%); RACIAL PROFILING (64%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (56%); RACE & RACISM (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; IDENTIFICATION DEVICES; AIRPORTS; AGED 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (74%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



412 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1807 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Mourning in America; 
A Whiff of Dread for the Land of Hope

BYLINE:  By SIMON SCHAMA; Simon Schama is University Professor at Columbia University and the author, most recently, of "A History of Britain."

 BODY:
IS it heresy to suggest that America could use a modest dose of pessimism right now?
 Historically, mainstream American culture is conditioned to treat calamity --financial or fanatical -- as an aberration, not the norm; an affront to the national commitment to singing in the rain. Confronted by breaking news of its vulnerability, only two alternative responses seem available: irrepressible up-and-at-'em chirpiness or apocalyptic hysteria, Pollyanna or Chicken Little. But neither approach, neither the smirk nor the shriek, offers the best foundation for imagining what perils might lie ahead, nor the most prudent way to come to terms with the unwelcome fact that, for the foreseeable future, the perils will be as much part of the American way of life as apple pie. 
 Of course politicians crazy enough to tell bleak truths about the aging process of the American empire have not been celebrated for their refreshing candor so much as buried for the temerity of their pessimism, however smart. R.I.P, Jimmy Carter, hello "morning in America" -- that golden moment when optimism skyrocketed along with federal deficits. Any contest, especially in election years, between sunnyside-up breeziness and chastened realism will, of course, be no contest at all. When was the last time that political strategy-makers counseled their candidate to put on a sadder (if wiser) face? It is a truism of contemporary political life that it will never be afternoon in America, even though such cursory readings of world history as candidates can manage between fund-raisers will tell them that one day it must.
Out there in the Rest of the World, the unavoidable sadness of wisdom is taken as read. From the very beginning of its written record, European history was assumed to be a somber, ignoble story, "little more," as Gibbon mordantly confessed, "than the register of the crimes, follies and misfortunes of mankind." This verdict did not, however, reduce that history to fatalism. On the contrary, the assumption of the inevitability of disaster, humans being what they are, also presupposed the educative power of melancholy: the optimism, as it were, of pessimism. In the European tradition it has been an imagined immunity from the pratfalls of history that has ended up guaranteeing the most painful and the most sudden disappearing acts.
The tragic climax of Thucydides's "History of the Peloponnesian War" -- the catastrophic Athenian expedition to Sicily -- is just such a cautionary chronicle of hubris-laden comeuppance. The famous funeral oration for the fallen, imagined for Pericles by Thucydides, is a staple item of American college core curricula, principally for its eulogy of the sacrifices of citizen soldiers and its assertion of the singularity of Athenian democracy (a democracy, like the early American republic, supported on the backs of slaves).
Far more typical of Thucydides's pessimism, though, is his unnerving account of the city's meltdown during a plague epidemic, when (in the wonderful translation by another arch-pessimist, Thomas Hobbes) "dying men lay tumbling upon one another in the streets and men half-dead about every conduit through desire of water." Facing obliteration, the model democracy swiftly dissolves into grab-it-while-you-can plunder; debauchery, the stampede for the last Cipro.
Democracies, Thucydides says, are no better armed against panic in the face of adversity, nor are they necessarily more virtuous and discriminating when they exercise their power against it. During the debates over the prudence of the Sicilian expedition, the most withering contempt is reserved for the belligerence of armchair hawks whose enthusiasm for the campaign is in inverse proportion to their personal experience of combat. The warnings of the seasoned veteran, Nicias, against running "new dangers when the state of our own city hangeth unsettled" are allowed their full, cautionary eloquence. Nonetheless, the historian complains, "everyone alike fell in love with the enterprise: the old men upon hope to subdue the place they went to or that at least so great a power could not miscarry; and the young men upon desire to see a foreign country and to gaze, making little doubt but to return with safety."
In the carnage that follows it is Nicias himself who is left to watch the annihilation of the Athenian army and navy. Never suppose, implies Thucydides, wagging his finger, that any empire is invincible. Survival depends, above all, on an understanding of the economy of force.
Roman historians like Tacitus narrating the fate of legions swallowed up in the German woods confirmed that a world empire, especially one mired in plutocratic selfishness and back-biting intrigue, could be a soft target. Expect the worst and you will not be disappointed. The barbarians will always be at the gate, and generally they will find a way to squeeze through. Be of a stoical temper, urged the philosopher-emperor Marcus Aurelius at the climactic moment of Roman imperial power, and when misfortune strikes remember that all things -- empires as well as emperors -- are mortal. The best that can be expected is the intelligent containment of damage. Such is the instruction of ruins.
RUINS were 18th century Europe's antidote to hubris. Gibbon conceived the idea of his "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire," he tells us, "as I sat musing amidst the ruins of the Capitol, while the bare-footed friars were singing vespers in the Temple of Jupiter." The milords flocked to the Forum for lessons on the inevitable erosion of grandeur. Artists like Piranesi and Hubert Robert supplied engravings and paintings of moss-draped Roman monuments overrun by beggars and goats. Landscapists would custom build ruins for the parks of the Quality so they could stroll soberly through gardens of wistfulness.
The attack on optimism reached its climax with Voltaire's Candide, whose faith in Dr. Pangloss's belief that we live in "the best of all possible worlds" is shaken by the Lisbon earthquake of 1755. Thirty thousand casualties unavoidably raise questions about either the benevolence or the competence of the Great Designer in the sky. Candide travels on through a landscape of unrelenting cruelty described by his raped sweetheart Cunegonde as "standard practice." All the greatest writing on the slaughter and mayhem that make up the sorry record of our modern centuries -- Stendhal at Waterloo; Tolstoy at Borodino, Hasek's "Good Soldier Schweik" -- is run through with black absurdity; the scamperings and scufflings of animal panic rather than ennobling acts of valor.
Such, they say, is the human condition. Get used to it.
America was created expressly as the rejection of those truisms. Ruins had nothing to say to a culture so deeply invested in freshness. Even now, those wanting to preserve Civil War battlefields like Chancellorsville as a place of meditation are up against developers for whom golf courses and front lawns whisper the great American mantra of "move on." Only at ground zero has the instinct to build over been checked by a comparably powerful yearning for a place of lament.
Against the stoical nostrum that man, wherever and whenever you look, is much of a muchness, the American claim was to have created a new kind of history-free citizen. When Alexis de Tocqueville came to America in the 1830's he was struck by the intensity with which Americans boasted of their singularity. He granted them their novelty, but immediately understood it was, above all, the product of their liberation from social and spatial claustrophobia. The happiness to which, apparently, Americans were entitled by birthright (and that Tocqueville saw with shocking clairvoyance actually meant the raw pursuit of material satisfactions) was conditional on perpetual motion. Happiness for Voltaire was cultivating one's garden. Happiness for Thomas Jefferson was rolling across the continent, gathering the millions of acres needed to make the American homestead.
Tocqueville also saw that this epic was not, as the tribunes of American felicity advertised, a calamity-free process. The white man's entitlement to happiness was the nonwhite man's guarantee of misery. For slaves there was the ordeal of confinement; for Native Americans ecological annihilation. European immigrants, on the other hand, were at last (relatively) free from the usual lot of the poor and defenseless. Sorrow and suffering, as a perennial way of life, became someone else's problem.
One of the most deeply felt narratives of catastrophe in the history of American freedom is Tocqueville's account of the uprooted Choctaws crossing the Mississippi in winter. "The snow had frozen hard upon the ground and the river was drifting with huge masses of ice. The Indians had their families with them and they brought in their train the wounded and the sick, with children newly born and old men on the verge of death. They possessed neither tents nor wagons but only their arms and some provisions. I saw them embark to pass the mighty river and never will that solemn spectacle fade from my remembrance. No cry, no sob was heard from the assembled crowd; all were silent. Their calamities were of ancient date and they knew them to be irremediable."
IT is only in our time, only perhaps last year, that such calamity has come home to America, and it is to be feared that it may not soon go away. In one morning the shelter of distance was traumatically obliterated, the skies made a lot less spacious. In place of the luxury of isolation, Americans have no option but to accept the necessity of connection. Sustaining their way of life and constitutional entitlement to filling up at a buck fifty a gallon demands continuing engagement in the fate of the rest of the world and not just hit and run "regime change," a euphemism that would better please the ghost of Thucydides if it were called by what it is -- invasion and occupation.
As a wrecking and removal crew Americans are, for the moment, unstoppable. But whether in Iraq or elsewhere, wrecking and removal is no strategy for their own survival unless they also sign the longer, more expensive, rebuilding contract.
If Americans are, for the foreseeable future, fated to live inside, rather than alongside, the imperfect, dangerous world, they are also likely to experience a greater, rather than a lesser, share of its ancient woes and misfortunes. The worst thing to do would be to treat such adversity as might come their way as if it were some sort of violation of American exceptionalism, when it is, in fact, the result of it. Perhaps, in any case, there are worse things than bidding farewell to the fond illusion that Americans would remain forever exempt from the ways of the world, calamities included. Besides, whoever said that growing older as a nation was going to be fun?

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the Civil War raged, Albert Bierstadt went west to celebrate on canvas the pristine glories of the Yosemite Valley. (Amon Carter Museum, Fort Worth, Tex.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); HISTORY (89%); CURRICULA (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CORE CURRICULUM (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (52%) TERRORISM; HISTORY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (67%) SCHAMA, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



413 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Zap! Pow! Let Superheroes Rescue Your Finances

BYLINE:  By MACAULAY CAMPBELL 

 BODY:
Many investors have lost their shirts in the market downturn. But some of them could be sitting on gold mines if their childhood comic book collections have not fallen victim to a spring cleaning or a spouse's need for more shoe space. 
 Last November, a copy of a 1939 Marvel Comics No. 1, which introduced the Human Torch and Sub-Mariner, sold for $350,000, breaking the record of $278,190 set just a month before -- for a 1939 Detective Comics No. 27, the first appearance of Batman -- according to the Overstreet Comic Book Pricing Guide, the standard source for comic book prices. 
 The big payoff, however, could come if someone has a 1938 Action Comics No. 1, the introduction of Superman. Metropolis Collectibles in New York City is offering $500,000 for a copy. MACAULAY CAMPBELL

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HIGHEST-PRICED COMIC BOOKS SOLD IN 2001*"Marvel Comics No. 1 (1939): $350,000Detective Comics No. 27 ('39): 278,190Captain America Comics No. 1 ('41): 265,000More Fun Comics No. 52 ('40): 207,000Captain America Comics No. 1 ('41): 166,750Batman No. 1 ('40): 150,000Sensation Comics No. 1 ('42): 100,000Amazing Fantasy No. 15 ('62): 95,000Captain America Comics No. 1 ('41): 95,000Amazing Spider-Man No. 1 ('63 ): 67,305 *List includes only those sales reported to Overstreet. Graphs show: RESTAURANT SALESYear-over-year change, weekly PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSTotals in thousands, weekly NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSYear-over-year change, weekly ONLINE SALESDollars in billions, weekly CLOTHING PRICESChange in consumer price index HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESFour-week moving average, daily for Chicago, Los Angeles and New York (Sources: Overstreet Comic Book Pricing Guide comic book data ; NPDFoodworld restaurant sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics consumer prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (88%) COMIC BOOKS AND STRIPS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUPERMAN (COMIC BOOK FIGURE) 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) METROPOLIS COLLECTIBLES 

PERSON: CAMPBELL, MACAULAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (84%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (84%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



414 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
A Small Declinefor a Distracted Market

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
In a week when many investors thought more about the first anniversary of 9/11 than about stocks, the three major equity indexes did not fare too badly. All three fell for a third week in a row, but the declines were small compared with recent performances. 
 The market also held up pretty well against a rise in unemployment claims, a decline in consumer confidence and no signals of economic optimism from Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, when he testified before Congress. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 114.51 points, or 1.4 percent, to 8,312.69, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped just 4.11 points, or 0.5 percent, to 889.81. The Nasdaq composite inched down 3.90 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,291.40.
 Honeywell International cut its profit forecast and fell 16.9 percent on Friday and 22.5 percent for the week. Tyco International, however, ended the week up 11.4 percent, even after the indictment of three of its former top executives and a 5.2 percent decline Friday.
 In the bond market, interest rates remained low, which should be a help for the economy. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note dropped to a 40-year low of 3.91 percent.
 JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" AOL Time WarnerNYSE: AOLThe media giant pared its 2002 profit forecast for its America Online Internet service because of a prolonged advertising slump.Friday's Close: $12.89Week's Change: -1.83%EST. '02 P/E: 14.80 CitigroupNYSE: CCitigroup named Charles O. Prince, its chief operating officer, to head its Salomon Smith Barney investment banking unit.Friday's Close: $29.38Week's Change: -2.97%EST. '02 P/E: 9.98 H. J. HeinzNYSE: HNZHeinz said its quarterly profit fell 11 percent because of higher marketing costs and expenses related to the spinoff of its tuna and pet-food businesses.Friday's Close: $35.87Week's Change: -4.80%EST. '02 P/E: 14.61 GenentechNYSE: DNAShares declined on news that Avastin, a once-promising experimental breast cancer drug, had failed a late-stage clinical trial.Friday's Close: $30.43Week's Change: -4.01%EST. '02 P/E: 33.22 JetBlue AirwaysNNM: JBLUThe low-fare airline, which went public in April, suspended plans for a secondary stock offering because major shareholders expressed little interest in selling the shares they now hold.Friday's Close: $43.36Week's Change: +8.64%EST. '02 P/E: 34.97 Tyco InternationalNYSE: TYCTyco selected David J. FitzPatrick, a senior executive at United Technologies, to be its new chief financial officer as it tries to restore credibility with investors.Friday's Close: $16.88Week's Change: +11.42%EST. '02 P/E: 8.45 NvidiaNNM: NVDAAn arbitration panel ruled that Nvidia, the sole supplier of graphics chips for Microsoft's Xbox video-game console, must continue selling pro-cessors to the software giant. The companies are in a pricing dispute.Friday's Close: $10.57Week's Change: +14.15%EST. '02 P/E: 12.97 Ford MotorNYSE: FThe automaker became the latest company to start accounting for stock options as an expense to reflect the cost of paying executives and other employees.Friday's Close: $10.65Week's Change: +4.41%EST. '02 P/E: 26.89 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (53%); INTEREST RATES (51%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (56%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (56%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (56%); HON (NYSE) (56%); HON (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (56%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



415 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: The Export-Import Bank: Who Is Helping Whom? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The article began with an example of a loan guarantee provided by the bank for the sale of a satellite manufactured in the United States to an international telecommunications company. It also discussed the satellite buyer's wealth and the manufacturer's politics, neither of which I believe to be relevant. 
 What is relevant is that an international telecommunications company needed to buy a satellite. That company had a choice: it could buy the satellite from an American manufacturer or from a European one. 
Following a basic principle of business, the telecommunications company compared prices, including the cost of financing. At a purchase price of $150 million to $200 million, a small difference in an interest rate can make or break a deal. 
In this case, the company chose an American manufacturer in part because the Export-Import Bank provided a loan guarantee that allowed the company to get a lower interest rate for the loan.
It is well known that European satellite manufacturers offer government-provided financing options to their customers. To compete effectively with these European rivals, the nation's satellite manufacturing industry must have available government financing options.
Loan guarantees are not corporate welfare. As the article states, the default rate on these loans is extremely small -- about 2 percent. Instead, the guarantees are a small and necessary national investment in the nation's satellite manufacturing industry. 
The global satellite industry is facing a steep decline in market demand due to a downturn in the telecommunications industry. It is projected that only two or three of the world's five commercial satellite manufacturers will survive current market conditions. Continued assistance from the Export-Import Bank is required to ensure that at least one of the survivors will remain in the United States.

ROBERT M. DAVIS
Santa Maria, Calif., Sept. 9

The writer is president and chief executive of the California Space Authority, a group that promotes space projects in the state.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



416 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: In Maryland, a Blowout Becomes a Nail-Biter 

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, Md., Sept. 12 

 BODY:
It is harsh enough that the double-digit popularity poll leads of Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend's campaign for governor of Maryland evaporated over the summer.
 No less biting to her is the cool pronouncement lately by Representative Robert L. Ehrlich Jr., who was initially viewed as her little-known, long-shot Republican challenger, that "the Kennedy legacy is dead." 
 "The legacy just hasn't worked; its not that relevant anymore," says Mr. Ehrlich, whose unexpected equalizing of the poll numbers is triggering what he terms a highly enthusiastic flow of campaign contributions for the tooth-and-claw campaign now expected by both camps. 
"We knew this was going to happen," insists Mrs. Townsend, who was widely touted as an unbeatable Kennedy torchbearer a year ago after dedicating eight years to the grass-roots burnishing of her image in this liberal state's No. 2 executive post.
Hardly accepting Mr. Ehrlich's view that the Kennedy spirit has faded in the estimate of voters, Mrs. Townsend, the eldest offspring of Robert F. Kennedy, appears to be using it to try and spark some of the fiery resolve that critics have found lacking in her stump performances so far.
"I am outraged and horrified not only by my opponent's view of my family, but by his view on guns and Saturday night specials," she angrily declared in an interview, pointing to Mr. Ehrlich's high rating by the National Rifle Association. 
"I'm talking about what Saturday night specials have done to my family," she said, signaling her campaign strategy of debunking the record of political moderation that Mr. Ehrlich is claiming for himself in this two-to-one Democratic state.
She is denouncing him as "outside the mainstream," even as Mr. Ehrlich insists she represents "the incredible arrogance of a monopoly never challenged," the Democratic establishment that has held the governorship for 36 years.
The rising cockiness of Mr. Ehrlich, 44, a four-term congressman who has proven he can garner crossover votes in his Democratic district, and the embattled resolve of the 51-year-old lieutenant governor have suddenly made a compelling race of the Maryland contest. It is attracting increasing national interest and political money, notably a $1 million fund-raising visit next month by President Bush.
"The fading lure of Camelot" was reported on recently by The Economist, the British weekly, which concluded that Mrs. Townsend has "the thatched hair and toothy grin" of her father, but has run "a shambles" of a campaign so far.
Her problems include what even some Democrats admit was a slap in the face of the state's potent African-American voting bloc when Mrs. Townsend considered prominent black Democrats as her running mate but then chose an outsider, Charles Larson, a white retired Navy admiral who converted from the Republican Party. She was impressed by his knowledge of education reform, a major issue, and domestic security, Mrs. Townsend said.
In contrast, Mr. Ehrlich chose Michael S. Steele, an African-American well known as the state Republican chairman. He is a "camera-ready" professional politician, as Mr. Ehrlich likes to say as he happily estimates Mrs. Townsend to be in political "meltdown."
Her problems include federal investigations of the state's crime control and juvenile justice departments that have been part of Mrs. Townsend's executive responsibilities. Like statehouse incumbents across the nation, she is criticized by Mr. Ehrlich for growing budget deficits -- $1 billion in the Maryland administration of Gov. Parris N. Glendening, Mrs. Townsend's political mentor and an increasingly unpopular politician whom she has been avoiding in this campaign. 
Beyond any specific issues may be the emerging popular suspicion that Mrs. Townsend, a careful politician who likes to prepare richly detailed plans on education, environment and other bedrock issues, may lack that mythic Kennedy zeal for bare-knuckled political combat.
"Oh, I am up for this," she firmly insisted as her campaign prepared an all-out television barrage aimed at Mr. Ehrlich's claims to moderation. "I like the excitement, I like the fight," she said, offering a determined Kennedy grin to counter critiques that her style often includes skittishness on the stump.
Mr. Ehrlich campaigns as the self-made man from a blue-collar, middle-class background who won a Princeton scholarship for academics and football. The only mainstream he is outside of, he says, is the one defined by conservative right Republicans. "I'm pro-choice, for the right to die, medical marijuana, pro-slot machines," he says, while analysts find his record more mixed on such issues as abortion rights.
Mrs. Townsend excoriates the Republican for his education record, accusing him of voting against some of the very opportunities that helped him get to Princeton. She seized this week on Mr. Ehrlich's candid admission that he does "not agree on anything" with the Children's Defense Fund, the organization that has criticized his education record.
"He epitomizes the worst of self-centered success," Mrs. Townsend said. "In my family, we've always said we have the responsibility to help those who haven't been as fortunate."
Mr. Ehrlich, defending his education record as rooted in local rather than federal priorities, appears delighted by Mrs. Townsend's attacks.
"We always thought if we could make the race between the two candidates, not legacy and a famous family, we would win," he said.
"We don't want to go negative, but when they hit, we will hit back," he added, anticipating just the sort of spirited campaign that the lieutenant governor claims she is eager to wage for herself even more than for her family.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, left, talking with Kay Graham at a campaign stop last week at the Prince George's County Fair. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (61%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) CLINES, FRANCIS X; TOWNSEND, KATHLEEN KENNEDY (LIEUT GOV); EHRLICH, ROBERT L JR (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) MARYLAND

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



417 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Strike Vote Fails; Company Offer Is in Effect 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The Boeing Company, the world's largest aircraft maker, averted a strike threatened for yesterday when leaders of its biggest union announced that their call for a strike failed to gain the two-thirds support needed from workers.
 Late Friday, leaders of the International Association of Machinists, which represents 25,000 Boeing workers in Washington State, Oregon and Kansas, announced that 62 percent of the workers had voted to reject Boeing's final offer and 61 percent had voted to strike. Union leaders said the vote showed deep anger toward Boeing, but under the machinists' rules, the lack of a two-thirds majority meant that the workers automatically accepted Boeing's offer. 
 As a result, Boeing emerged largely triumphant in a bitter contract fight in which the main issue was the union's effort to curb Boeing's ability to contract out work to nonunion or overseas companies. In the new contract, Boeing obtained not only the provisions it wanted to allow it more freedom to contract out work, but also provisions that increase the workers' contribution to their health coverage. 
"It's a victory for Boeing, but it may be a Pyrrhic victory," said Margaret Levi, an expert on labor relations at the University of Washington. "It will be very problematic for the company to have this kind of intense anger with the labor force."
For leaders of the union, the vote not to strike was a rebuff and undercut the union's pledge to do its utmost to stop Boeing from transferring more components work to China and other countries. Boeing laid off one-third of its work force after the Sept. 11 attacks, and many machinists are fuming that the company has rehired few of those workers while continuing to move work overseas. 
"Our members clearly rejected the company's offer and saw it would eliminate jobs, but felt they could not strike the company at this time," said Mark Blondin, president of Machinists' Local 751, which represents the Boeing workers.
Boeing officials have long maintained that the company needs unrestricted freedom to transfer work to help it minimize costs and compete with its archrival, Airbus, the European aircraft giant. 
In the weeks before the contract expired on Sept. 1, Boeing officials sent signals that the company might be willing to weather a walkout to achieve its contract goals. Many industry analysts said Boeing was in a good position to weather a strike because its orders had dropped sharply after the attacks. The company plans to deliver 380 jets this year, down from 520 last year, and may cut production to 300 next year.
Alan Mulally, president of the Boeing commercial airplane division, said in a statement: "We're looking forward to getting back to the business of building airplanes. We will continue supporting our customers and ensuring that Boeing remains a reliable and competitive supplier to the world's airlines."
David Clay, a tool maker, said the company's threats and appeals to workers helped persuade them not to strike. "The company was completely on message, while the union was in disarray," Mr. Clay said. "The company kept saying, 'Times are tough. This isn't going to be good for our customers,' and all that talk affected some workers."
Machinists leaders were angry after the vote. It has been an especially difficult year for that union, which has endured tens of thousands of layoffs after Sept. 11, not only at Boeing, but at the airlines.
In light of the nation's weak economy and Boeing's own problems, labor relations experts said it was not surprising that Boeing's workers developed cold feet about striking. 
"It's simple economics," Professor Levi said. "Everyone has been asking isn't this a bad time for a strike, when there's a recession and people are scared of layoffs. Workers are more worried about striking than they would be in an upturn."
Boeing's machinists last went on strike in 1995, when aircraft orders were booming and the walkout lasted 69 days.
Under the new contract, the workers, whose annual salary averages $50,000, will receive an immediate 8 percent ratification bonus, a 2 percent raise in the second year, and 2.5 percent in the third. The workers' pensions will increase by 20 percent so that a worker who retires after 20 years will receive a pension of $14,400, up from $12,000 under the old contract.
As soaring health care costs become a central issue in labor negotiations across the country, union officials said that under Boeing's new contract, workers would have to contribute about $2,000 more per year toward their health coverage.
In a separate move, 1,400 workers represented by the United Auto Workers at a Boeing helicopter plant near Philadelphia went on strike yesterday. The walkout may slow deliveries of the CH-47 Chinook, a transport helicopter used by the American military in Afghanistan. In that dispute, health costs are a major issue.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker heard of the rejection of union leaders' call for a strike. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); AIRLINES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); TERRORISM (63%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; HEALTH INSURANCE 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%); AIRBUS SAS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%) BOEING CO; INTERNATIONAL ASSN OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (58%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



418 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Mormon Leader Is Survived by 33 Sons and a Void 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: COLORADO CITY, Ariz., Sept. 12 

 BODY:
In their Sunday best, men in black, women in pastels, they came by the thousands today to honor their leader, a man they considered a prophet.
 Outstanding he was, by some measure. President Rulon T. Jeffs, of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, who died Sept. 8 after a long illness, was 93. He is survived by 19 or 20 wives -- no one could say for sure -- about 60 children and hundreds of grandchildren. At least 33 sons were pallbearers, including two of his namesakes, Rulon F. and Rulon H. 
 As the eighth prophet of the church, in a line that began with the Mormon pioneer, Joseph Smith, Mr. Jeffs led the largest religious group in North America that still practices plural marriage and is ostracized by the mainstream Mormon Church for the same reason. The larger church, based in Salt Lake City, banned polygamy in the 1890's as a condition for Utah gaining statehood. The fundamentalists consider mainstream Mormons the renegades, for abandoning the original Mormon teachings to solve a political problem.
Today, more than 5,000 fundamentalists packed the Leroy S. Johnson Meeting House for a two-hour service, then slowly walked along a dusty road to the cemetery where Mr. Jeffs was buried. He was praised by one speaker as "a man of principle and sweetness," by another as a man who "lived the attributes of God." The lives of church members were so absorbed with him that the funeral program said at the top, "President Rulon T. Jeffs Presiding."
His death leaves a void in church leadership that could take years to fill. Fundamentalists warm to their prophets rather slowly, and for now two church members are in the running: Fred M. Jessop, 92, a longtime bishop, and one of Mr. Jeffs's sons, Warren S. Jeffs, 45.
"It could take months, even years," said Raymond Scott Berry, a Salt Lake lawyer who represents the church but is not a member. "It's not a political decision. It's based on a subtly growing consensus that evolves from their faith and prayerful attitude." 
About 10,000 people in the United States and Canada belong to the Fundamentalist Church; the largest concentration of them, 4,000, live in the adjoining border towns of Colorado City, Ariz., and Hildale, Utah. They form a place perhaps like no other in the United States, coming as close to a theocracy as possible in a country where the Constitution provides a firewall between church and state. 
Dan Barlow, 70, a symbol of the mix as an elder of the church and mayor of Colorado City for the last 17 years, said the church owns about 85 percent of the land in the two towns under an arrangement developed in the 1940's with Mr. Jeffs, a wealthy businessman for much of his life, as a leading negotiator. The church, he said, gives parcels to its members. If a family moves away or breaks with the church, the church can give the property to another family.
Until a few years ago, local children attended public schools. But church leaders encouraged families to enroll their children in church schools and the public schools closed.
The church has been less successful in improving the economic standard of its members. Almost 25 miles from the nearest town of any size, Colorado City and Hildale have few commercial businesses -- a small restaurant, a clothing store, a gas station -- but no movie theaters, no fast-food outlets, no welcome signs along the road that leads in and out. In Colorado City, the larger of the two towns with 3,334 residents, 78 percent of residents receive food stamps, compared with 18 percent for all of Arizona. 
Mr. Berry called the fundamentalists "the last American pioneers," and their life here suggests as much. Houses sit on a grid of unpaved streets. Families raise horses and livestock adjacent to their house. In general, men can dress as they please, but women, including little girls, are required to wear long-sleeved, ankle-length dresses and to keep their hair long and braided.
But more than looks and location set them apart from mainstream America. Plural marriages, unusually large families and houses with multiple entrances attract the curiosity of outsiders and, to some degree, the interest of state officials.
Rarely are polygamists charged under bigamy laws, especially in Utah, where many residents are descendants of plural families, and prosecutors are reluctant to file charges against consenting adults in a religious context. Tom Green, who was recently sentenced in Juab County, Utah, to five years to life on a rape charge for impregnating one of his five wives when she was 13, was the first polygamist in 50 years to be prosecuted in Utah.
More often, members of plural families come to the attention of state and local officials through occasional allegations of welfare fraud, tax dodging, domestic violence and child abuse. But cases are difficult to build, said Ric Cantrell, a spokesman for the Utah attorney general's office. Not only are the county prosecutors generally overwhelmed with more serious offenses, he said, but investigators have trouble finding witnesses to testify.
Mr. Barlow said he would not comment on any criticisms of the church or its teachings, surely not on so solemn a day. He defended plural marriages as a core belief of the Fundamentalist Church, "that a man should have more than one family through marriages ordained by God." He said people are free to leave and insisted that no girl under 16 is forced into any marriage. 
But he acknowledged that the church is under stress lately, largely through the encroachment of the outside world through television, the Internet and news reporters whose interest in Fundamentalist Mormons was spurred by the Tom Green case.
"Our biggest threat is the liberal world," Mr. Barlow said. "It changes our young people, turning them away from holy and good principle. They are free to go out into the outside world. That's one of the very principles of our gospel, a person is free to do something different. We just believe that we teach a better way."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Dan Barlow of Colorado City, Ariz., an elder of the church.; More than 5,000 members of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints attended services for their leader, Rulon T. Jeffs. (Photographs by Lori Cain for The New York Times) Map of the United States highlighting Colorado City, Arizona, and Hildale, Utah: Most of the fundamentalists live in Colorado City and Hildale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); RELIGION (93%); FUNDAMENTALISM (91%); POLYGAMY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ANNULMENT (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); CHURCH & STATE (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%) MORMONS (CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS); POLYGAMY 

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (90%) FUNDAMENTALIST CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER DAY SAINTS 

PERSON: JEFFS, RULON T; JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (95%); UTAH, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%) COLORADO CITY (ARIZ)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



419 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
Winning Is Leftwich's Answer to Every Question

DATELINE: BLACKSBURG, Va. 

 BODY:
"Saying you learned something from losing," Byron Leftwich said after he had lost, "is a cover-up for losing. We just lost. Now you think about the next game."
 No question Leftwich, a 22-year-old college quarterback, is pro material. He was standing in the chilly concrete bowels of Lane Stadium on Thursday night, handling reporters with the steady poise he had maintained throughout his Marshall University team's 47-21 loss to Virginia Tech. The question unanswered was the one that had perked much of the news media interest in the game, and one he refused to engage: After such a solid defeat, are you still a contender for the Heisman trophy? 
 "I don't matter," he said. When the questioning persisted, he added: "I'll let you guys decide. I just came here for a W, for a win."
Sounded to me like a candidate for something. 
Before the game began, a Heisman voter in the press box told me he thought there was something unfair about so much riding for Leftwich on Marshall's only nationally televised game this season against a major powerhouse. Virginia Tech is a member of the Big East, one of the conferences that dominate the politics and profits of college sports. Marshall, which is in Huntington, W.Va., is the lesser of two universities in a poor state long struggling with educational problems. Marshall is a "midmajor" in a conference, the Mid-American, struggling for the publicity that comes from nationally televised games. Money and a painstakingly assembled athletic program can gain that exposure over time. A short-cut could be blazed by a camera-ready superstar. 
Then Byron Leftwich ambled onto the scene with his easy grin and powerful right arm, smart and socially comfortable, sweet-natured and tautly focused, a 6-foot-6, 240-pound version of Shaquille O'Neal, the kind of athlete you could invite to photo ops and sudden-death overtimes. Marshall began promoting him as a Heisman candidate last year. The university has a comparatively small athletic budget, about $10 million for all its teams, so its sports information director, Ricky Hazel, spun Leftwich as a sentimental long shot against those Sunshine State front-runners, Rex Grossman of Florida, Ken Dorsey of Miami and Chris Rix of Florida State. 
The bobblehead Byron dolls sent to suspected Heisman voters fought that poor-boy message, except they were financed by a state program that used tobacco company settlement money to combat teenage smoking. "We're going to have to work a little harder now to get out the message," Hazel said after the game. 
Of course, the Heisman electorate is no monolith, a secret roster of perhaps 1,000, mostly members of the sports news media, fragmented by geography and personal ambition. My Heisman source in the press box, no fool, wondered if Marshall's poor showing might help Leftwich. There would be the sympathy vote for an underdog, for a bona fide pro prospect playing for a team that didn't deserve him, for a nonthreatening minority nice guy. Also, it would be a vote just for him, not for the sweaty social climbers from West Virginia and their low-caste league. 
The game itself, broadcast on ESPN, supported such a theory. The final score, 47-21, made it seem closer than it was. Marshall was trailing, 36-0, in the fourth quarter before it finally scored a touchdown. Both teams scored 21 points in that last quarter, often while giving second-stringers playing time. Leftwich was far better than his team. 
His statistics were solid. He completed 31 of 49 passes for 406 yards and 3 touchdowns with only one interception. More important, he seemed never to falter, coolly looking for a second, even a third receiver, using his size to shake off blitzers, firing those short, clothesline passes that can move a good team inexorably forward. 
But the Thundering Herd, alas, did not look like a good team, certainly not the team that rallied to win the GMAC Bowl last season or beat Appalachian State, 50-17, in this season's opening game. The usually excellent receivers dropped key passes, including one sure 5-yard touchdown in the first quarter that might have changed the momentum of the game. Within moments, instead of leading by 7-3, Marshall was down by 10-0. The Herd never thundered again. 
Even more damaging early on was Marshall's inconsistent defense. Tech's backup quarterback, Bryan Randall, threw only 12 passes as he sent seven runners, most notably Kevin Jones and Lee Suggs, on 66 rushes for 408 yards and 6 touchdowns, through holes that seemed to open like automatic doors. 
Leftwich would say only: "We just didn't make the big plays. We put our defense in a bad position . . . we failed. My performance could have been a whole lot better."
Near midnight, charmed and exasperated by the candidate's politic remarks, I asked him if he had lost any of his focus in the days leading up to the game as stories appeared in The Roanoke Times about the resurfacing of his biological father, Paul Anderson. Leftwich has maintained that his mother, Brenda, reared him in Washington, with some roughhouse help from his older brother, Kevin. Anderson, who split from Brenda Leftwich when Byron was 2, has said that he was more of a presence than he had been given credit for as his boys were growing up. He implied that he was calling attention to himself now to correct the record, not just because Byron was on the brink of a big N.F.L. contract. Predictions have Leftwich as an early pick in the pro draft.
Leftwich laughed at my question. "I heard something about that," he said.
We went back and forth for a moment, Leftwich deflecting the questions by saying he had not been reading the newspapers. Suddenly, there was a stir behind us in the stadium corridor and a middle-age woman swept up. She was wearing a T-shirt with Leftwich's No. 7 and the designation MOM. 
Leftwich and I both moved toward her. I asked her about the stories and she flashed Byron's big smile and seemed ready to engage when the quarterback threw that multimillion-dollar arm across his mother's shoulders and amiably said, "We gotta go now."
A moment later, they were side by side, heads close, murmuring, bodies bumping gently down the deserted corridor that led out of the ballpark. I'd vote for him. For president.

The Series So Far
Articles in this series about the role of college sports in American culture have explored the economics of football, gambling, paying the players, and Title IX's effect on "minor" sports.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marshall's Byron Leftwich, who passed for 406 yards against Virginia Tech, is succeeding at a midmajor college battling for the respect of Division I-A powers. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (77%); SPORTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); ATHLETES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); BUDGETS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (69%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



420 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Votes When Politics Are Topsy-Turvy; 
Candidates for Governor Find Favor in Untraditional Places

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
Many New Yorkers carry in their heads a template for making sense of state politics, a framework of Republican versus Democrat, liberal versus conservative, upstate versus downstate. But whatever they think they know, as the race for governor heats up, they might want to think again.
 Last week, a popular incumbent, George E. Pataki, suffered an embarrassing loss to a wealthy businessman, Tom Golisano, in the primary of the Independence Party, a party the governor was unable to win over, setting the stage for a three-way general election campaign. 
 Mr. Pataki, a Republican, is doing worse than expected upstate, better than expected in New York City and very well in the increasingly Democratic suburbs. In a liberal state, Mr. Golisano is making points by calling the governor a liberal. 
The leading challenger, H. Carl McCall, was the resounding choice of the Democratic Party. Yet he has so far been unable to tap into his party's enormous advantage in voter registration and its traditional strength in New York City, forcing him to resort to a strategy of reminding Democrats that they are Democrats. At the same time, he speaks daily of the woes of upstate New York, and claims to be more fiscally prudent than the governor.
Mr. Golisano has done little but attack Mr. Pataki, yet he seems to be taking just as many votes from Mr. McCall. The Conservative Party, increasingly a single-issue, anti-abortion group, wholeheartedly backs a governor who favors abortion rights, Mr. Pataki. The Liberal Party may give its nomination to the most conservative candidate in the field, Mr. Golisano. The Democrats cannot count on organized labor.
What gives?
To some extent, this is part of the national trend away from ideology, away from strong party identification, and away from the deep divisions among big-city, suburban and rural voters. But political analysts say there are other things going on here, though getting them to agree on what those things are is a lot like herding cats.
"This race is shaping up differently from anything we've seen before," said Lee Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. "The question is whether any of this is a long-term realignment, rather than just short-term factors."
Maureen Connelly, a political consultant for both Republicans and Democrats whose clients have included Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, dismisses any talk of tectonic shifts in the electoral plates.
"In high-profile races, voters make decisions based on the individuals, not so much on the parties or the ideologies," said Ms. Connelly, who once served as Mayor Edward I. Koch's press secretary. Less-renowned races, she said, still get resolved along the usual lines -- Democrats still win overwhelmingly in the city and Republicans generally win upstate and in the suburbs.
Where there are variations, as in the governor's race, Ms. Connelly argues that they are due to particular circumstances. "I think George Pataki is doing far better in the city than a Republican would normally do, because of his persistence and presence in New York City after 9/11," she said. "But the upstate economy is faltering, and voters there see him focusing his time and energy on New York City, and they resent it."
Mr. Golisano's presence also changes the texture of the race. A billionaire businessman from Rochester, he is best known upstate, and he has built his expensive campaign -- spending more than $30 million so far -- around attacking the governor as a free spender who has done nothing for the state's economy. That pitch resonates far better upstate than it does downstate, and it helps explain why the governor leads Mr. McCall upstate in polls by just 15 points, not the 28 points he won by in 1994.
But some experts point to what may be more fundamental, long-term changes in the electoral balance. Over the last decade, Republicans have lost the defining issues that they used for generations to attack Democrats and motivate their own supporters. Communism collapsed, welfare was reformed, crime dropped, the culture wars mostly backfired, and taxes just don't generate the heat they used to.
"Republicans had to find some issues in the middle or die," said a top adviser to Mr. Pataki. "And that was more true in New York, where Republicans were always the minority and they were always pretty moderate, so it was impossible to build a base around the cultural issues like abortion."
Mr. Pataki ran against Gov. Mario M. Cuomo in 1994 on a platform of cutting taxes, reforming welfare and getting tough on crime, but even then, he also expressed support for abortion rights, gay rights and environmental protection. He has become even harder to pin down, ideologically, since then, talking up liberal causes like drug-law reform, raising spending sharply and promoting major new health care programs.
Another shift in New York has been the inroads that Republicans have made among Hispanic voters, what Alexander F. Treadwell called "priority No. 1" when he became state party chairman last year. Mr. Pataki has made a concerted three-year effort to win over Hispanic voters, and polls show him running even there with Mr. McCall.
"That is a huge threat to us if it holds, if it becomes a long-term thing," a top Democratic official said. Republicans around the country have tried to woo Hispanic voters without great success, except in Florida's Cuban-American community, the official noted, "but Pataki's been better at it than any of them."
Many political strategists think that voters generally fall into three factions. On the left are traditional liberals, mostly Democrats, who believe in using the power of government to solve ills. On the right are cultural conservatives, mostly Republicans, once defined largely by anti-Communism, and more recently by opposition to things like abortion, gun control and rights for gays.
In between are swing voters who are liberal on social issues and want less government and lower taxes, but do not want to sacrifice any services they rely on. By most accounts, the factions on the left and right have shrunk over the last two decades, while the one in the middle has grown. So far, neither major party has established a firm hold on that swing group.
All three candidates are trying, to varying degrees, to position themselves as the champions of that middle vote, presenting themselves as socially liberal and fiscally conservative, which blurs the usual geographic and partisan distinctions.
The swing vote also neatly matches Mr. Pataki's public image (though both his opponents question his claim to fiscal conservatism, and Democrats say the governor's commitment to environment and education are overblown).
Mr. Golisano fits into the middle group, as well, but with a libertarian bent. He promises to cut government significantly, something no other candidate says, but he said on Friday that he also favors civil unions for gay couples.
Mr. McCall lays claim to that center faction by accusing the governor of inefficiency, unsound budgets and rising debt -- even as he tries to win back urban and minority voters who are leaning Mr. Pataki's way.
For a few years now, Democrats have claimed that Republican redoubts in the suburbs and upstate were eroding, making the state more Democratic over all. Republicans insist that is not so. Each side points to specific races to bolster its argument.
What is more convincing: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, a Democrat, getting 47 percent of the upstate vote, or Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican, being elected mayor? Democrats taking over county governments in Nassau and Westchester, or Republicans capturing Erie County, home to Buffalo.
"You could argue unique circumstances for each of those, or you could argue trends, and the same is true for all the strange things we're seeing in the governor's race," Mr. Miringoff, the pollster, said. "I don't think we know the answers yet. They will only be clear in hindsight."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LIBERALISM (91%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); MAYORS (77%); SUBURBS (74%); ABORTION (64%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); GOLISANO, B THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



421 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL; 
A Changed Dr. Doom Returns

BYLINE:  By THOMAS GEORGE

DATELINE: FOXBORO, Mass., Sept. 12 

 BODY:
For most of his 50 years, Bill Belichick has approached his life the way he creates his stonewall defenses and perplexing game plans: always struggling to find balance and walk that line between what is too little and what is too much.
 He grew up the son of a football coach in Annapolis, Md. In high school, he experienced the initial years of America's educational integration. At liberal, eclectic Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn. -- hardly an N.F.L. incubator --he played football, lacrosse and squash, studied economics and gained a perspective on race, religion and philosophy. 
 But once Belichick became an N.F.L. assistant coach in 1975, X's and O's and winning games became his passion. He became a fixture as Bill Parcells's defensive coordinator on the Giants in the 1980's, flopped as a head coach in Cleveland, rejoined Parcells with the New England Patriots and the Jets and finally became the Patriots' head coach in 2000. And along this route of nearly three decades, he became widely viewed as a brilliant but uptight Dr. Doom, unfriendly and abrasive, utterly lacking in charisma. 
Last season in New England, something changed. Belichick went back to his roots, found that balance, walked that line, started listening to the needs of his players and others. He remained constant, though, in devising defensive schemes that strangled offenses. He won the Super Bowl as a huge underdog. He evolved.
"He's smart enough and been a coach long enough to realize if something isn't working, you tweak it," Patriots cornerback Terrell Buckley said. "He tweaked it. I guess you really had to know what he was like before having all the control and all the input his way. The great coaches listen to their players but keep control. That's when you have something special. It makes players around here excited."
Belichick, whose Patriots take their 10-game winning streak to Giants Stadium on Sunday to take on the Jets, admits the change. He decided that to endure, to win this second time around as an N.F.L. coach, he had to introduce Belichick the communicator to Belichick the defensive wizard.
"In Cleveland is where a lot of that old reputation started, and that was a situation where I had an adversarial relationship with the team and the media," Belichick said. "I made winning football games the No. 1 priority, and everything else was a distant second.
"It took me time to learn that some of the things I could have handled better. I could have granted more access for the media and more freedom for the players. I'm not as tough as I used to be. You could say I've mellowed."
His competitiveness, however, remains intense. He wants to beat the Jets, the team he spurned in a comical scenario several years ago in which he was named the Jets coach one day and the next day announced he would not be the coach. He has been a part of 4 of the last 16 Super Bowls and desperately wants another one, the next one, and the ones after that. 
Belichick has not gone all warm and fuzzy. That irascible style, that smirk, can surface at any moment. He still pushes his players mentally and physically. And his team can be easily spotted: it is the one that plays football just the way he orders, full of zest and strikingly prepared.
"It's clear to me watching him on TV and listening to his press conferences that he has evolved into a polished performer," said Art Modell, who owned the Browns when Belichick was head coach and now owns the Baltimore Ravens. "His coaching is a given -- he is a great defensive mind -- but he has developed P.R. skills to the benefit of the Patriots and the league.
" In Cleveland, he was turning the media and people off. Some of it was our fault as much as his. But in New England he's found a new way and he did an incredible thing taking that team the distance."
Robert K. Kraft, the Patriots' owner, said the impressions that Belichick made as a New England assistant in 1996 led him to name Belichick coach and stick with him when Belichick produced a 5-11 record his first season and started last season with a 1-3 mark before finishing at 11-5 and winning the Super Bowl.
"People sent me tapes of his press conferences from Cleveland," Kraft said. "Some of my friends said I was making a big mistake. I listened, but I went with my instincts, even during the rough start, because I knew that Bill Belichick was a coach of substance if not style, a coach who is not lipstick and powder but one who runs a disciplined, tough team. That's what I think wins, and he proved us all right. We have what you could call a marriage that I want to last a long time."

The Beauty of Confusion
Belichick's signature is defense. He creates schemes that often confuse offenses, schemes that his players love to put into practice. The Patriots might use five defensive backs on one play, five linebackers on another, or even four safeties.
Belichick has excelled at showing quarterbacks one defensive alignment before the snap, another during the snap and another after the snap, constant, confusing and orchestrated movement by his players that creates offensive uncertainty and chaos. On one play, for example, a cornerback might align as a linebacker and drop off in coverage to a deep, opposite part of the field. His defenses fool offenses.
"To me, in all phases of the game, you have to have enough so you can counter your opponent but keep it simple enough so your players can execute," Belichick said. "You don't want to give them too much, but you don't want to be predictable, either. So that's where you are constantly finding that balance.
"You can't stop everything on offense but you do stop the variable that is most important in your particular matchup. So, I want defenses used in a game that are structured for situations -- for stopping a particular player, for the two-minute situation, for when teams are throwing the ball. I want defense that addresses problems."
The Patriots players say that they learn as many as 30 to 35 different defenses a game, far above the league norm. But Belichick and his staff, including the defensive coordinator, Romeo Crennel, make sure his players have a knack for retaining and executing them. To make some of the plays easier to remember, they are referred to by names of players or popular TV shows.
"It's like a classroom setting a lot of times," Buckley said. "We've got enough defenses that if an offense wants to script 15 plays, we could script 25 plays. It's a common-sense defense that uses a lot of groupings, and they get it across and make you feel like it's not on you but you are involved. We get to suggest things. We retain it."
Results matter, Patriots linebacker Willie McGinest said.
"We work hard and we listen around here because we know one thing: if you do it, and you do it right, you win," McGinest said. "And nothing gets players' attention more than a coach who says something is going to happen, it happens, you're prepared and you win the battle."
Cornerback Ty Law added: "I can't say that everyone here just loves Bill. Some don't really know him that well. But he has the respect and the ear of every player. You have to give him the credit for putting all of that together. We know he can make the difference in winning games."
Belichick's father, Steve, said that when his son played sandlot football, the other young players looked for him to tell them where to be. In high school, since his head coach did not have an assistant, Belichick was something of assistant coach and player, his father said.
"I was a coach and scout at Navy from 1956 through 1989, and as a young boy Bill would come with me on Monday nights when I made my scouting reports to the other coaches," Belichick, 83, said from his home in Annapolis. "He was around superior people and coaches at a very early age. Then later in the week the coaches would come by the house and we'd sit on the porch and talk football and Bill would sit right there and just listen.
"When he graduated from high school, he had a 700 test score in math and 500 in verbal and he comes to me and says he wants to go to prep school. With scores like that, why, I asked? He said that I told some kids a long time ago that they have to get all the preparation they can get to be successful. And that's pretty much Bill: He's always going to be prepared and work his tail off.
"It's amazing how things turned out with him winding up in New England, because I am certain that had the Jets' former owner, Mr. Leon Hess, not died, Bill would be coaching the Jets."
Had he stayed with the Jets, Belichick would have coached for at least a while in the shadow of Parcells, the person he had been most closely linked with in his N.F.L. career. In going to New England instead, he created a separate identity and ultimately won his own championship. Asked about Parcells, Belichick said: "We had a very successful relationship, but it's not like we socialized together every weekend. He did get in touch to congratulate me on winning the Super Bowl. All of the other stuff -- we could talk about that all night."

Love Has Little to Do With It
Significantly, Belichick has begun looking beyond the N.F.L. for perspective. In recent years, he has visited prison football teams, taken part in Drug Enforcement Agency sweeps in Newark projects and worked with charities involved in lifting reading skills. Those experiences, he said, have helped him identify more with some of his draft choices who come from impoverished backgrounds. Belichick, who is married with three children, is also an avid reader -- he collects old football books and has about 300 in his home -- and when his players have children, he often gives them books as gifts.
He has also found more creative ways to reach his players. During Super Bowl week early this year, he took turns giving his suite to players who were complaining about the size of their rooms. To break the monotony of training camp, he showed his players a film about Sir Ernest Shackleton, and how he and his 28 men survived in the Antarctic from 1914 to 1916 after their ship was destroyed. He arranged for the basketball Hall of Famer Bill Russell to visit.
He has, it appears, found a path from sourness to graciousness, from rigidness to more flexibility. He is walking that new line.
Kraft has challenged him to help lead the Patriots into becoming the most successful sports franchise of this decade. They can do it together, Kraft said, and Belichick agrees.
"Nobody achieves anything by themselves," Belichick said. "I feel extremely fortunate because this is the team that I want to be with and this is the only place I want to be."
Ultimately, Belichick is unlikely to become glib and gaudy, to turn flashy on the sidelines or intensely formal in a Tom Landry suit and fedora. He will never be universally loved. And it won't matter.
"That's never been a huge priority," he said. "I don't think it affects the final score."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Belichick, now in his 28th season coaching in the N.F.L., says, "You could say I've mellowed." His competitiveness, though, remains intense. (The Boston Globe); Bill Belichick's Patriots lost the first two games of the season last year before going on to win the Super Bowl. (Reuters)(pg. 1); From left, Bill Parcells, Lawrence Taylor and Bill Belichick with the Giants in 1986. (Jerry Pinkus)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); LACROSSE (73%); PHILOSOPHY (71%); RELIGION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NEW YORK JETS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); MARYLAND USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



422 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: SUSPECTS; 
Families and Neighbors Defend 5 Linked to Terror

BYLINE:  By MARC SANTORA 

DATELINE: LACKAWANNA, N.Y., Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Five men of Arab descent who were arrested in this old steel-making city just outside Buffalo and arraigned this afternoon on charges that they aided the Qaeda terrorist network were staunchly defended by their families and neighbors.
 At the same time, some who know the suspects described marked changes in their personalities in the last year, including an apparently deepening interest in Islam. 
 The complaint unsealed in Federal District Court here today said that the defendants were trained in a Qaeda camp in Afghanistan.
The arrested men -- Yahya Goba, 25; Sahim Alwan, 29; Shafal Mosed, 24; Yasein Taher, 24; and Faysal Galab, 26 -- were escorted into court in wrist and ankle chains. Only about a half-dozen friends and relatives of the defendants were present as the hearing got under way. 
But in the streets around the Lackawanna Islamic Mosque, which the suspects attended, many Muslims in the neighborhood were stunned by the arrests. 
"I am sick in my heart," said Fatim Mosed, the mother of Shafal Mosed. "I know my son, and he is a good boy. Everybody is telling lies."
Like the other suspects, her son attended Lackawanna High School roughly a decade ago and is a United States citizen. While much remains unclear about the men's activities, particularly in the last year, the accounts provided by neighbors and friends focus mostly on their suburban upbringing and social lives.
Mrs. Mosed said that her husband died about 15 years ago. The family moved from Dearborn, Mich., to Lackawanna around that time. She said she had four sons but was currently unemployed. Mrs. Mosed said she relied on her husband's Social Security and her sons' jobs for support.
"My son loves being an American citizen," Mrs. Mosed said. She said her son did travel to Afghanistan sometime in the last three years, but only to further his Islamic education.
Ellis Pierce, 25, who is not a Muslim but lives in the neighborhood, said he went to high school with several of the men. "In school they were normal, like everyone else." However, he said he had noticed a change recently. "Within the last year, they started to grow their beards long," he said. "They were still cool with me, but I noticed the beards." 
In Lackawanna, about five miles south of Buffalo, beards are not uncommon among the large Muslim population, mostly people of Yemeni descent.
Sam Vilanti said that about 20 years ago, many people came to replace striking workers at the steel plant. He said many of these people were Arabs. "Over the years, the population has just kept growing," he said.
Since the steel mill closed, the town has fallen on hard times.The mosque is the cleanest and best-looking building on its block. 
Yousef Goba, the brother of Yahya Goba, said he was confident that a trial would show the men did nothing wrong. "You only worry about the guilty and not the innocent," he said. Mr. Goba said his brother married about two months ago.
Yayha Goba said in court today that he would agree to be sworn in "only on the Koran, not on the Bible." He was sworn in without either. 
He told the court that the last time he was employed was in May 2000, with a company called Unity Wholesale.
His sister, Rahma Goba, said she, her brother and their six other siblings were born in Yonkers and lived there until 1989, when the father decided to move to the family's ancestral home, Yemen. "In Yemen, we went to Islamic school and learned to read and write Arabic," Ms. Goba said. 
Only one of the men seemed to hold steady work. Mr. Alwan told the court he worked for a company called Satellite Services outside Buffalo. He said he earned $31,500 a year. When the court asked if he was still employed, he replied dryly, "I don't know yet."
Outside his apartment, which is across the street from an Arab grocery store that was raided last night, a neighbor, Ahmed Shamsan, said that Mr. Alwan was married and had three children, ages 3, 8 and 9.
Mr. Taher told the court he held a job until August of this year. It was unclear if Mr. Taher was married, but he told the court he had a 3-year-old son.
Mr. Galab is married and has two children, said his father, James, 75. James Galab said he came to the United States in 1955 and his son was born here. He said his son was devoted to his faith. "He always is religious, since he was a little boy he was in the mosque all the time," he said. Mr. Galab did not know whether his son had traveled to Afghanistan.
Neighbors and friends said the five men were often seen together and loved to play soccer. Mason Kadi, 19, said he went to school with several of the men. He said Mr. Mosed and Mr. Galab played on the Lackawanna High School soccer team. "You would not expect anything like this from them," he said.
Another man who described himself as a friend of the men, Ali Shawaala, 28, said that lies had been spread about the Muslims in the community. He said he went to school with Mr. Alwan, the oldest of the suspects. "He wanted to be a cop," he said.
The imam at the mosque, Abdulwahab Ziad, said he had known the men since he first came to the community five years ago. "They are nice guys," he said. "Just because someone visits Pakistan or Afghanistan, it does not mean he is a terrorist."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fatim Mosed, the mother of Shafal Mosed, who is charged with aiding Al Qaeda, said that people were telling lies about her son. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) Map of New York highlighting Lackawanna: Five men were arrested in Lackawanna, N.Y., on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARRESTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RELIGION (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); ARAB AMERICANS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); STRIKES (63%) TERRORISM; YEMENI-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: SANTORA, MARC; GOBA, YAHYA A; ALWAN, SAHIM A; MOSED, SHAFAL A; TAHER, YASEIN A; GALAB, FAYSAL H 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) LACKAWANNA (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



423 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: INDICTMENT; 
U.S. SAYS SUSPECTS AWAITED AN ORDER FOR TERROR STRIKE

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Five Arab-American men charged today with operating an active cell of Al Qaeda in western New York had received intensive weapons training in Afghanistan in the summer of 2001 and been sent back to the United States to await the order for an attack, federal law enforcement officials said today.
 The suspects, all of them born in the United States and of Yemeni descent, were arraigned today in Buffalo on federal charges of providing "material support" to terrorists. 
 Federal officials said the arrests in a Buffalo suburb suggested that, for the first time since the Sept. 11 attacks, the Justice Department might have detected an active Qaeda terrorist cell in the United States.
The Justice Department acknowledged, however, that it had no evidence to suggest that any attack by the group was imminent. The government did not contend today that the men had weapons in their possession or that they had participated in any violent act. 
"We have not seen any plans of an imminent attack in western New York or elsewhere in the United States," the F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III, said in announcing the charges. But he added, "We do not fully know the intentions of those who are charged today."
The men were arrested on Friday night in raids on their homes and businesses in Lackawanna, a Buffalo suburb that has a large Yemeni community and where the suspects lived within a few blocks of one another. Officials said it was information from inside that community that led them to conduct an inquiry there. 
At a news conference in Washington, Deputy Attorney General Larry D. Thompson said the disruption of a "Qaeda-trained terrorist cell on American soil" was an important victory for the United States in combatting terrorism. 
"American citizens who see fit to aid and abet America's enemies will face the full force of America's justice," Mr. Thompson said.
A federal magistrate in Buffalo entered a not-guilty plea today on behalf of the five men, who are all in their 20's, and ordered them detained until a hearing on Wednesday.
Friends and relatives of the men have rallied to their defense, many suggesting that the arrests were the result of an anti-Muslim witchhunt.
"They are good citizens and good members of the community," said Khalid Qazi, a local leader of the American Muslim Council.
A criminal complaint released by the F.B.I. shows that the government believes three other men from Lackawanna received terrorist training in Afghanistan last year. The complaint identified them as "uncharged co-conspirators" and said they were now believed to be living outside the United States, at least two of them in Yemen.
A mostly impoverished Muslim nation of 17 million people that borders Saudi Arabia, Yemen has proved a fertile recruiting ground for Osama bin Laden's terrorist network. On Friday, American officials confirmed the capture in Pakistan of Ramzi bin al-Shibh, a Yemeni who, officials said, served as a paymaster for the Sept. 11 terrorism attacks.
Federal officials said they had no evidence to suggest that the five men in custody in western New York had any tie to the Sept. 11 attacks.
The criminal complaint in their case focuses on an allegation that they provided "material support" to Al Qaeda by receiving training from the group in the summer of last year. 
They are accused of attending a terrorist training camp in Afghanistan known as Al Farouk, the same camp that was attended -- at about the same time -- by John Walker Lindh, the young Californian who pleaded guilty last summer to taking up arms against the United States with the army of the Taliban.
As part of his plea agreement, Mr. Lindh agreed to cooperate with the government in other terrorism investigations. Law-enforcement officials joined with Mr. Lindh's lawyers in refusing to comment today on whether he led investigators to the men arrested in western New York.
"I can say that the debriefings continue," said George C. Harris, one of Mr. Lindh's lawyers, in a telephone interview. "He's being absolutely, fully cooperative." 
Federal law-enforcement officials said that they opened their investigation in Lackawanna, an old steel town on the southern border of Buffalo, after receiving information from within the area's Muslim community months ago that people loyal to Al Qaeda might be living among them.
But the criminal complaint shows that it was only last week, after months of denials by the suspects, that two men accused of involvement in the terrorist cell broke down in interrogations and acknowledged to the F.B.I. that they had attended the Afghanistan camp.
One of the men, Sahim A. Alwan, 29, was among the group arrested on Friday. 
According to the complaint, Mr. Alwan confessed in an interview on Thursday that he had gone to the training camp with six other men from Lackawanna last year, and that they had received training in the use of firearms and antiaircraft guns, along with lectures on "jihad (holy war), prayers and justification for using suicide as a weapon."
In previous interviews with the F.B.I., the complaint said, Mr. Alwan had insisted that he had traveled last year only as far as Pakistan, where he said he had received religious training.
According to the complaint, he said that during the seven-week training session in Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden visited the camp, which was near the former Taliban stronghold of Kandahar, and "gave a speech about the alliance of the Islamic jihad and Al Qaeda, espousing anti-United States and anti-Israel statements."
The complaint said that the other man from Lackawanna who confessed last week, identified only as "uncharged co-conspirator C," had been interviewed by an F.B.I. agent on Wednesday somewhere "outside the United States" and has also acknowledged terrorist training.
He reported, it said, that "he was trained on the use of the Kalashnikov assault rifle, handguns and long-range rifles" and that another of the men from western New York was trained in "heavy artillery."
Federal officials said it was the two confessions that led them to move on Friday to arrest Mr. Alwan and the four others from Lackawanna, identified as Yahya Goba, 25, who is unemployed; Shafal A. Mosed, a 24-year-old employee of a credit company; Yasein A. Taher, 24, who is unemployed; and Faysal H. Galab, 26, whose recent work history was not disclosed.
The men arrived for their court hearing in casual street clothes, their hands and feet shackled. They said little beyond yes or no to the questions of Magistrate H. Kenneth Schroeder, who asked the men about their ability to pay for defense lawyers.
Law-enforcement officials said that the recent developments in the Lackawanna investigation were a factor in the government's announcement on Tuesday that it had raised the national terrorism alert level to "orange," signifying a high risk of a terrorist attack.
At the news conference today, however, Mr. Thompson cautioned that "the elevation of our status alert was made after considering a number of factors" and that the discovery of the Lackawanna cell had "not specifically" led to the new terrorism alert.
Mr. Thompson and other officials today repeatedly praised the cooperation received from American Muslims in western New York and elsewhere in the search for terrorists who may be in the United States.
"I want to thank the Muslim community of Buffalo for their extraordinary cooperation," Mr. Thompson said, offering no details on the nature of that cooperation.
The five men were charged with violating a federal statute that makes it a crime to provide "material support" to a designated foreign terrorist organization like Al Qaeda.
In 1996, when the law was passed, Congress broadly defined material support to include almost anything of value except for medicine or religious materials -- a list that included the provision of "personnel" or "training" to a foreign terrorist organization. If convicted, each of the men would face up to 15 years in prison.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about terrorism charges against five Arab-American men in western New York, who were accused of having attended a terrorist training camp in Afghanistan, misstated the criminal charges to which an earlier defendant, John Walker Lindh, pleaded guilty last summer. Mr. Lindh, accused of attending the same camp, admitted having taken up arms as a soldier in the Taliban -- not having taken up arms with the Taliban against the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Lackawanna Islamic Mosque, where five men charged yesterday with aiding Al Qaeda attended services. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); ARAB AMERICANS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARRESTS (89%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); RELIGION (64%) TERRORISM; ISLAM; YEMENI-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) ALWAN, SAHIM A; GOBA, YAHYA A; MOSED, SHAFAL A; TAHER, YASEIN A; GALAB, FAYSAL H; LINDH, JOHN WALKER; SHENON, PHILIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); YEMEN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) LACKAWANNA (NY); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



424 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1059 words

PERSON: Gerald Rosenfeld 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
A New York Accent at Rothschild

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
GERALD ROSENFELD prefers slacks and navy blue blazers to power suits and cuff links. He often rides the subway. He tells you what he thinks, plainly and quickly, with the bluntness that comes from growing up in Queens. 
 Not what you'd expect from the chief executive of Rothschild North America, an investment banking subsidiary of the Rothschild family empire, with all its European pomp. 
 "He is not one of those slick, Hermes-clad warriors," said Steven Rattner, managing principal of the Quadrangle Group, who worked with Mr. Rosenfeld in the 1990's when both were bankers at Lazard, another family-owned investment banking boutique. "He is a very straightforward guy."
On his third day at Rothschild, Mr. Rosenfeld said, he scrapped the strict business dress code. He called it "one of my enduring contributions."
What he really brought to Rothschild, at the age of 55 and with more than 20 years in the banking business, is a list of clients across corporate America. He's using it to help Rothschild muscle into the top ranks of Wall Street deal making.
Most recently, he was hired to advise the UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines, on how to restructure its $7 billion debt, which could soon drag it into bankruptcy. Mr. Rosenfeld got the job because, while at Lazard, he advised the company on its employee buyout in 1994.
"Knowing Jerry was instrumental in our hiring the firm," said Frederic Brace, the chief financial officer of UAL, who described him as "very pragmatic and a problem solver."
Mr. Rosenfeld is blunt about UAL's lack of strategic options. "There aren't a lot of assets that can be sold without the unions' permission," he said.
While Rothschild is a significant investment banking force in Europe, it ranks only 14th among advisers on United States mergers, according to Thomson Financial. But that is still much higher than its 27th-place ranking three years ago.
Back then, Mr. Rosenfeld said, the Rothschild family realized that "if you are a global firm, how can you ignore the U.S.?"
Mr. Rosenfeld said he hoped the firm would crack the top 10 once the economy rebounded. "The good news is we didn't have any market share to defend," he said.
His timing is good. Some of the largest investment banks are under scrutiny from regulators for possible conflicts of interest and unethical behavior, giving smaller competitors like Rothschild an advantage.
When he took the job in January 2000, Mr. Rosenfeld asserted, "the conventional wisdom was that firms like Rothschild were anachronisms."
"Now," he added, "firms of our size are sought after."
His unconventional background may help at a time when the motives of the typical Wall Street banker are suspect. "I often cite him as an example that life is never over," said Roy Smith, a former partner at Goldman Sachs and a finance professor at New York University, where Mr. Rosenfeld teaches part time. "He has done a lot of different things."
Mr. Rosenfeld grew up in the middle-class Queens neighborhood of Kew Gardens, and made the 90-minute commute to the Bronx High School of Science, a prestigious public school. He majored in engineering at City College of the City University of New York and got a Ph.D. in applied mathematics at New York University. Then he taught for three years, at the University of Maryland among other places, but became frustrated with his career. "I was an O.K. researcher but I wouldn't have broken any new ground," he said. 
He joined McKinsey, the consulting company, providing analysis and data to support its theories. After three years, he grew restless again, joining Salomon Brothers in 1979. Lacking an Ivy League degree and a master's degree in business, Mr. Rosenfeld's chances for advancement at McKinsey were probably limited.
"We had him pigeonholed," said Roger Kline, a senior McKinsey partner who remains a good friend. 
Mr. Rosenfeld said he left McKinsey because he had been exposed to investment banking there and wanted to learn that business. He appeared to find his calling at Salomon, where brain power was prized more than pedigree. 
"He was a natural," said Michael Zimmerman, who hired Mr. Rosenfeld at Salomon and is now chief financial officer at ContiFinancial, a pork and poultry investment firm. "His background in mathematics makes him a rigorous, analytical thinker." 
Salomon customers also quickly came to appreciate Mr. Rosenfeld's unassuming style, Mr. Zimmerman said. "There is still a lot of the old neighborhood in him," he added.
Mr. Rosenfeld later worked at Lazard and NationsBanc Montgomery Securities, now part of Bank of America, then ran his own advisory firm before joining Rothschild.
He has replaced much of the old Rothschild team of bankers. He hired bankruptcy experts who have advised companies like Pacific Gas and Electric and Federal Mogul. Just weeks after he started, Mr. Rosenfeld advised T.W.A. on its acquisition by the AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines. He is personally handling the UAL work.
In some cases, Rothschild has won advisory roles from European companies that require American expertise -- work that the firm would have missed before Mr. Rosenfeld came.
Last year, his group advised France Telecom, a longtime client in Europe, on restructuring the American debts of NTL, in which France Telecom holds a large stake. This year, Rothschild is advising Vivendi, the French media conglomerate, on its restructuring, which could include the sale of American divisions like Houghton Mifflin.
So far, the Rothschilds are pleased with how Mr. Rosenfeld has raised their firm's profile. "He has been able to gain the trust of people externally as well as within the firm," said Edouard de Rothschild, a senior partner in the family's Paris office. "Jerry has restored the credibility and respectability of the Rothschild name" in America.
Mr. Rothschild would not disclose precise figures but said the family's American business was profitable this year for the first time.
Mr. Rosenfeld said his typical 12-hour work day starts at 7:30 a.m., when he calls Europe from his Manhattan office. He lives in Manhattan with his wife, Judith Zarin, an independent film producer, and one of their three children. 
The stock market's slump, he said, hasn't dampened his enthusiasm for doing deals. "There have been a lot of difficult days," he said. "But over all, it's been terrific."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerald Rosenfeld, chief executive of Rothschild North America, is known for his direct, no-nonsense style. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ETHICS (88%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); FAMILY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); MERGERS (70%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%) BANKS AND BANKING; INVESTMENT BANKING; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (68%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (64%); QUADRANGLE GROUP LLC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ROTHSCHILD & CIE BANQUE 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (68%) SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES; SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE; 

STEVEN RATTNER (57%) ATLAS, RIVA D; ROSENFELD, GERALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (77%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



425 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2353 words

HEADLINE: From Investor Fury, A Legal Bandwagon 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
CORPORATE malfeasance and executive greed have undermined the stock market and fleeced investors, but they have also proved to be a boon for one sliver of the economy: securities lawyers.
 Whether drawn by an improved image as champions of the little guy or by the prospect of tens of millions of dollars in fees, law firms and individual lawyers are jumping into the business of suing companies, their directors or officers on behalf of investors who feel lied to and cheated. 
 "You are seeing many, many, many more law firms coming into the field," said Mark C. Gardy, a partner at Abbey Gardy, a New York law firm that specializes in representing investors in securities lawsuits. "There's no barrier to entry. You're seeing people who in the past were referring lawyers, or who just happened to have a friend who lost some money." 
The influx of new lawyers is evident from the increasing number of lawsuits filed against companies: Enron, or its executives, alone has been hit by 45 securities lawsuits, Adelphia by 56 and Tyco by 60.
Lawyers for companies and investors alike said the increased interest in shareholder lawsuits might have been inevitable. There have been too many enormous, well-publicized corporate scandals of late, it is easy to attract clients over the Internet, and the potential legal fees are staggering.
"We're in a relatively unique time," said Lawrence A. Sucharow, president of the National Association of Securities and Commercial Law Attorneys and a partner at Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow, because the confluence of widespread scandal, the speculative bubble and a large pool of burned investors has created a unique opportunity. "The losses of any one of these cases may have equaled the market drop of all the cases in any other year, because the stocks were pumped up so much by the bubble," he said.
Established plaintiffs' lawyers -- the most famous being William S. Lerach of Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach -- say the new competitors are not a serious threat to them. But they concede that the new lawyers are changing legal tactics and sometimes setting off fierce battles to control big lawsuits. For now, lawyers say, there are plenty of targets to go around.
After all, millions of angry investors have lost billions of dollars, and there are many to blame: corporations, fat-cat executives, boards, lawyers, accountants and financial advisers, as well as the investment bankers who played games with stock offerings and the analysts who talked up the stock price of corporate lemons.
All of these deep-pocketed potential defendants -- tarred by earnings restatements, accounting scandals and now, in some cases, by criminal indictments -- represent a potential gold mine for securities lawyers.
Restatements are confessions that the numbers were wrong, taking care of the first argument that a plaintiff would have to make, said Michael A. Perino, a law professor at the St. John's University School of Law in New York. "Now all you have to do is take the next step and say they were fraudulently wrong," he said. Indictments can make that argument easier, too.
White-shoe lawyers -- most of whom will not touch plaintiff-side work -- and corporate executives have always disdained people who file shareholder lawsuits, accusing them of pressing frivolous complaints every time a stock declines in value. Most of the suits involve accusations of accounting fraud, rather than of insider trading or another scheme, the kinds of allegations made more often in the past.
The increased number of lawsuits, and of lawyers bringing them, has executives fuming, but quietly. The executives don't want to draw attention to themselves or to their companies, said Michael L. Charlson, a securities litigator in New York at Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe, which represents companies. "People who have spoken up about such things in the past have sometimes ended up regretting it," he said. "They end up getting sued."
Nonetheless, he added, it is clear that the lawsuits will discourage people from serving as company directors and will force executives to spend time and money defending themselves. "These lawsuits are a huge distraction when they hit," Mr. Charlson said. "They take a tremendous amount of time."
Defense lawyers also complain that plaintiffs' lawyers try to squeeze as much money out of companies as possible, without putting the defendant out of business. That will be trickier now, because so many targets -- Enron, WorldCom and Global Crossing among them -- have filed for bankruptcy protection.
HISTORICALLY, big shareholder cases were brought by law firms that specialize in the field: Abbey Gardy, Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz of New York, Chimicles & Tikellis in Haverford, Pa., and Milberg Weiss, which built itself into the 800-pound gorilla of the plaintiffs' bar by filing -- and settling -- many suits for millions of dollars against dozens of corporations. As the fees and the fame have grown, outweighing the professional stigma of working on what was often seen as the shady side of corporate law, the field has attracted a generation of relative newcomer firms like the fast-growing Cauley Geller Bowman & Coates of Little Rock, Ark., and smaller firms like Brodsky & Smith of Bala Cynwyd, Pa.
The appeal of shareholder litigation is easy to see. Plaintiffs' lawyers can collect as much as one-third of any settlement with shareholders -- a potentially huge amount, when shareholders at Enron, for example, say they have lost billions of dollars.
Lawyers for shareholders who sued Rite Aid were paid nearly $50 million; lawyers who sued Sunbeam, nearly $36 million; and lawyers who sued 3Com, nearly $48 million, according to Joseph A. Grundfest, a law professor at Stanford and former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission who runs the university's Class Action Clearinghouse. Not one of these cases put lawyers to the trouble of a trial: since the passage in 1995 of a federal law that toughened standards for securities litigation, not a single securities suit has been decided by a jury.
Of the 1,523 cases filed since that law was enacted, 415 have been settled, 151 were dismissed, 20 were withdrawn by plaintiffs, and the rest are being pursued, said Bill Ballowe, an assistant vice president at Woodruff-Sawyer, an insurance brokerage firm in San Francisco.
Some of the new plaintiff lawyers have struck out on their own from big, established firms. Others have moved into the arena from other plaintiff-side litigation, like consumer fraud. And some relatively large firms are expanding into the area, taking advantage of its fast growth.
Shareholder lawsuits begin any number of ways, plaintiffs' lawyers say. When companies announce problems, they make it easy. Sometimes a disgruntled employee will tip off a lawyer to a potential problem that the lawyer will investigate. Sometimes a lawyer files a suit because he sees that another lawyer has filed a suit. (This has led some lawyers to copyright their complaints, to deter others from simply copying them when piling on.)
Sometimes clients who have lost money and are angry or suspicious will call lawyers and ask them to look into the matter. And sometimes lawyers file suit just because they see that a company's stock has plunged and assume that something must have gone wrong.
From a lawyer's perspective, the ideal client is a big institution that lost a lot of money. Under the terms of the 1995 law, the "lead client" in a class-action suit is likely to be one that has lost more money than other plaintiffs. The lead plaintiff picks the lead counsel to manage the suit -- and, crucially, decides how fees are allocated among law firms.
Some lawyers with no intention of being the lead counsel troll for individual investors by putting out news releases and setting up Web sites or buying space in newspapers to advertise lawsuits. The lawyers interview the investors who respond and see whether they would be appropriate plaintiffs.
Armed with a client and a claim, the lawyer can file a complaint on behalf of all shareholders who held the company's stock during a specified time period. Usually, several complaints are filed by different firms, and a judge will decide to consolidate them in one court. That makes settlement negotiations -- or a trial -- simpler.
IN the end, companies hit with lawsuits often settle fast to avoid running up legal fees, even if they think shareholders' complaints have no merit. That is why corporate America hates these lawsuits.
Defense lawyers said they were not sure whether the number of frivolous lawsuits was rising or whether any increase could be attributed to newcomer firms.
"Plaintiffs' lawyers might be looking to stretch a bit," to bring more marginal lawsuits, said Mr. Charlson, the litigator who represents companies. "But I don't necessarily associate this with newcomers."
There is no easy way to document the increase in the number of plaintiff lawyers. But there is indirect evidence in the form of data on shareholder lawsuits filed. It shows that any one company can expect to be hit with more lawsuits today than at any time in the last five years.
A company that would have been sued, on average, in 7 complaints in 1997 will now be hit by more than 12, according to James M. Newman, executive director of Securities Class Action Services in New York. "With cases like WorldCom and Enron, it's 40 or 50" lawsuits, he said, adding that the cases are usually consolidated in one court proceeding.
The overall number of securities suits continues to rise, too. So far this year, 181 securities class-action suits have been filed, versus 176 in all of last year -- excluding 312 suits over allocation of shares of public offerings, which were aimed primarily at financial companies like brokerage firms -- and 214 in the year before, according to the Securities Class Action Clearinghouse at Stanford.
Though the growing number of lawyers has not changed the behavior of defendants, it has made potential plaintiffs choosier. Institutional investors are often willing to let law firms compete for their business and to hire lawyers that are not established players, said Robert C. Finkel, a partner at Wolf Popper, a plaintiff firm in New York. Some lawyers said there soon could be auctions to choose the cheapest lead counsel, a process that would allow new entrants to underbid established firms.
Increased competition has "leveled the playing field," Mr. Finkel said. That does not mean that established firms have lost all their advantages, he added, because clients want their lawyers to have significant experience in securities litigation.
Most big firms that defend corporations from shareholder suits will not take on investors as clients, lawyers said; they fear alienating their traditional client base.
One exception is Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler in New York, which represents both plaintiffs and corporations in securities lawsuits and whose securities lawyers have been busy of late on behalf of both sides, said Stephen P. Younger, a partner at the firm.
Most plaintiffs' lawyers would not openly criticize their new competitors, but many said they were frustrated that newcomer firms would send out news releases announcing that class-action lawsuits had been filed, then wait for clients to call them.
The new firms are taking advantage of the Internet to distribute news releases, a relatively new tactic to find clients. It is possible even to join a class-action lawsuit on the Web, using a law firm's site. "A firm with one lawyer, a guy out of law school, can issue a press release," Mr. Finkel said. The technology means lawyers have to worry more today about marketing, he added.
Sometimes the firm that puts out a release has not filed a case of its own but is seeking only to find potential clients it can refer to another firm that has filed a case. The referring firm then collects a fee.
That is quick money because putting a news release on the Internet is so easy, said one lawyer who would speak only on condition on anonymity. "That practice has resulted in the proliferation of claims by firms that traditionally have not been active in the plaintiffs' bar," the lawyer said.
Newcomer plaintiff firms can also make money by filing complaints as soon as they learn of filings by other firms. Then they do not need the financial resources to investigate potential fraud, let alone to go to trial.
That common practice frustrates those firms that invest in research in stock trading or that follow up on tips, said Mr. Gardy of Abbey Gardy. "A lot of times these cases start with a deep throat," he said, adding that figuring out whether a viable lawsuit can be filed takes time and money.
SETTLEMENTS of securities suits last year averaged $16 million each, according to the Stanford clearinghouse. Analysts who have studied settlements said that there was no easy way to determine how much individual shareholders recovered for each share they owned or for each dollar invested.
Mr. Ballowe estimates that 75 percent of the cases filed against the likes of WorldCom and Enron will settle for a total of $17 billion. How much of the bill will be paid by insurers is unknown, he said, and some of the bankrupt companies singled out by current lawsuits may decide to go to trial because they have little to lose.
Insurers are already taking steps to protect themselves from future waves of shareholder litigation, Mr. Ballowe said. Insurance companies have doubled, tripled or even quadrupled the premiums for their policies covering corporations, directors and officers. As a result, the boards of many companies have chosen to buy less insurance, he said.
That may eventually lead some of the new plaintiff firms to pull out of the securities litigation business, Mr. Ballowe added.
"If you reduce the limits that are available and you reduce the amount of coverage in the marketplace, it should have a downward impact of some kind on settlements," he said. "The litigation industry is a business. The laws of economics apply to it just as well as they do to running another business."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the growing number of lawyers involved in investor lawsuits referred incorrectly to the role of juries since a 1995 federal law toughened standards for filing the suits. At least one securities class-action suit was indeed decided by a jury: in 1999, the BDO Seidman accounting firm successfully defended itself against a suit filed in connection with an audit of Health Management Inc.

GRAPHIC: Photos: William S. Lerach, one of the lawyers taking on Enron, says there are plenty of securities cases to go around. (Associated Press)(pg. 11); Mark C. Gardy, a lawyer specializing in securities cases, has seen a big jump in the number of firms becoming involved in shareholder suits. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Following SuitsSuing for securities fraud is a growing business. Multiple lawsuits against a single company are common, as are substantial settlements. Graph shows the AVERAGE SUITS PER CASE through Sept. 9 from 97-02. SUITS FILED THIS YEAR Tyco: 60Adelphia: 56Global Crossing: 50Bristol-Myers Squibb: 45Enron: 46Williams Companies: 44WorldCom: 39Dynegy: 32J. P. Morgan Chase: 23Gemstar-TV Guide: 17Citigroup: 13AOL Time Warner: 9Lucent Technologies: 8Qwest: 2 MEDIAN SETTLEMENT in millions from '96-'01 MAJOR SETTLEMENTS SINCE 1995 In millions Cendant: $3,527Waste Management*: 677Bank of America: 4903Com: 259Rite Aid: 193MicroStrategy: 193Informix: 137Sunbeam: 125Conseco: 120Ikon: 111 *Total for two cases (Sources: Securities Class Action Services; Cornerstone Research; Stanford Law School)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); LAWYERS (92%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); SCANDALS (89%); ACCOUNTING (84%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (77%); ETHICS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); BONDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (63%); INDICTMENTS (60%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; LEGAL PROFESSION; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: MILBERG LLP (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



426 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ARAB ALLIES; 
Jordan Could Suffer From U.S. Assault on Iraq

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Of the United States' allies in the Arab world, Jordan, wedged between Iraq to its northeast and Israel to its west, stands to suffer the most from an American attack on Baghdad, diplomats in the region say. 
 King Abdullah II and his advisers are asking the Bush administration for assurances, including not using Jordan as a base from which to strike Iraq. Jordan is also asking for help to secure a flow of oil, which the country now buys at preferential prices from Iraq, officials said. 
 Another important request is for Washington to ensure that Israel's prime minister, Ariel Sharon, does not take advantage of a war to push Palestinians from the West Bank into Jordan, they said. 
The king, who upset the Bush administration in July when he said that an attack on Iraq was a "ludicrous" idea, has accepted the inevitability of war, officials here said. 
In a televised speech to the nation last month, the king signaled the likelihood of war when he put the onus for a peaceful outcome on Baghdad, saying it was up to Iraq's leaders to resolve the issue through dialogue rather than force. 
The king is now focusing his efforts on seeking to get the best possible protection for Jordan's interests, diplomats said. 
These efforts consist of balancing Jordan's historic ties to Iraq with its increasingly strong economic and military ties to the United States. While Jordan's late King Hussein, the current monarch's father, stayed out of the international coalition against Baghdad in the 1991 Persian Gulf war, officials here say King Abdullah is unlikely to do the same. Also, Jordan signed a peace treaty with Israel in 1994, a further shift toward the American camp. 
In recognition of Jordan's vulnerability, the United States would probably try to avoid using bases in Jordan, diplomats said. 
One fear here is that Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, would target Jordan with chemical weapons if it served as a military platform for the United States in time of war. 
American troops are not stationed in Jordan, and the government has gone out of its way to emphasize that American troops who took part in joint exercises here last month had left the country. Foreign Minister Marwan Muasher has repeatedly said that Jordanian bases, which would give American forces easy access to western Iraq, would not be used for an attack. 
However, there is no formal agreement ruling out American use of the bases during a war, Western officials said. If the American military decided that Jordan was critical to victory, King Abdullah would have little choice but to agree, Jordanian analysts said. 
But one Western diplomat in the region said the Bush administration "understands the balancing act" that Jordan must maintain. The United States was "not asking the Jordanians to do things they can't do," the diplomat said. Another said the administration was telling Jordan: "We will never let Jordan down." 
There was no detailed explanation of how the United States might guarantee Jordan adequate oil, but oil experts said there had been discussions of refurbishing the pipeline between Saudi Arabia and Jordan, which has been closed since the gulf war. 
"The most logical source is Saudi Arabia," said Raad Alkadiri, an analyst for the Petroleum Finance Company in Washington. 
So far, the Saudis have declined to grant Jordan oil at preferential rates, Mr. Alkadiri said. But a Western diplomat said that Jordan's healthy foreign reserves, of about $2.8 billion, would allow it to buy enough oil to get through a short war. 
One of the biggest worries here is that a war with Iraq would deflect attention from the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and remove restraints on Prime Minister Sharon. 
"The concern is that Sharon will push Palestinians over the border from the West Bank in order to increase the Jewishness of the West Bank," said Mustafa B. Hamarneh, director for the Center for Strategic Studies at the University of Jordan. 
He predicted that Jordan would try to use its treaty with Israel, an important element in American interests in the region, as a bargaining position with the Bush administration to keep Mr. Sharon in check. 
The ethnic balance in Jordan is delicate. By some estimates, more than half the country's five million people are Palestinians, and as many as 400,000 are Iraqis. The influx of many more Palestinians and Iraqis during an unpopular war could be highly destabilizing for the monarchy. 
In a background session with Jordanian reporters recently, the king declared that he would use troops to prevent Palestinians from being pushed into Jordan from the West Bank, one of the participants in the meeting said. 
Jordan is also concerned that Iraqi refugees would pour in once a war started. Information Minister Muhammad al-Adwan told reporters here that Jordan was determined to "protect its borders" and suggested that the army would be used in the north, too, to deter refugees. 
Describing the Jordanian dilemma, Mr. Adwan said: "Iraq is a neighboring Arab country. We have brotherhood ties and geographical and commercial interests." 
At the same time, he said: "We are an ally of the United States. We have ties, very important commercial interests and political ones" with the United States. Last year, for example, the United States signed a free-trade agreement with Jordan, and Jordan's textile exports have jumped to $450 million, compared with $39 million three years ago. 
Despite all the negatives the Jordanians fear in the event of war -- including the possible breakup of Iraq -- some analysts also see some advantages. 
A post-Saddam Hussein, American-controlled Iraq could be the source of plentiful and cheap oil for Jordan, said Rob Malley, the director of Middle East affairs for the International Crisis Group, and a member of President Bill Clinton's National Security Council. 
A pro-American Iraq would provide a big market for Jordan, not to mention riches to be reaped from the reconstruction of Baghdad, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: King Abdullah II of Jordan, left, in a meeting last week in the capital, Amman, with the Iraqi vice president, Taha Yassin Ramadan. (Pool photo by Youssef Allan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); DESERT STORM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ARMED FORCES (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) PERLEZ, JANE; ABDULLAH II (KING); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); JORDAN (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GULF STATES (79%) IRAQ; JORDAN; ISRAEL; WEST BANK

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



427 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
An Insurance Door Opens, but Only by a Crack

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE ANDREWS; Michelle Andrews is a freelance writer in Manhattan specializing in health care. Her column on its economics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: moneymeds@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE trade bill signed last month by President Bush contained some good news for workers who lose their jobs each year because of foreign competition: a 65 percent tax credit to help cover health insurance premiums.
 Supporters hail the tax credit as a possible precedent for broader government subsidizing of health insurance for the eight million unemployed workers of all types. Some believe that it may evolve into something bigger. "People on all sides saw this as the first step in an effort to help the 40 million uninsured Americans," said Stan Dorn, senior policy analyst at the Economic and Social Research Institute in Washington, a nonpartisan research organization specializing in health policy and the uninsured. 
 That's an admirable goal. But considering how hard it was for Republicans and Democrats to reach agreement on coverage for a tiny group of workers -- only about 140,000 are expected to use the credit each year -- it's probably too soon to give up your day job and assume that you'll be able to buy your health insurance on the cheap.
Of all workers who leave their jobs, only one in five who are eligible extends health insurance under the federal law known as Cobra, which allows workers to continue policies for up to 18 months, if they pay the full premiums. That's no surprise: Cobra coverage for a family costs $600 a month, on average, nearly two-thirds of the total average monthly unemployment check of $939, according to a recent analysis by Families USA, a consumer health care advocacy group.
A health insurance tax credit could have made a big difference for Nancy Pearson, who lost her job at a shoe factory in Bangor, Me., in January. She said she couldn't afford the $770 a month to cover herself and her husband, Robert, 56, under Cobra. Her unemployment insurance check was $620 a month, and her husband had lost his job at a car dealership as well. Just making their monthly house payment was a struggle, and they had to put other bills on hold.
So Mrs. Pearson, 52, let her health insurance lapse. Soon after her layoff, the Labor Department certified that she was eligible for an existing program, Trade Adjustment Assistance, that retrains workers who have lost jobs as a result of imports. Though she couldn't know it then, workers like her would be the biggest group to benefit from the trade bill's health insurance tax credit.
In May, Mrs. Pearson was midway through a course to become a certified nurse's assistant when she found out she had colon cancer. Surgery and followup care left the Pearsons with $35,000 in medical bills. Although she is expected to make a full recovery, Mrs. Pearson is not sure how to repair the damage to her family's finances. 
"The tax credit could be a good thing for us," she said. "Anything would be a help, as opposed to trying to do it all ourselves." 
It took plenty of negotiating to reach an agreement on the tax credit portion of the trade bill. Republicans wanted a tax credit that workers could use to buy their own insurance on the open market. Democrats favored a tie-in to employer plans through Cobra or to a government program like Medicaid. Republicans wanted a 60 percent credit; Democrats wanted 70 percent. 
In the end, they compromised on a 65 percent credit that could be used for Cobra, some state-arranged health plans and private health insurance in limited instances. The cost is $4.8 billion over 10 years.
Under the provision, workers can pay insurance premiums up front and get a tax refund later, or they can present a certificate of eligibility to their insurer, which collects 65 percent of the worker's premium directly from the government and bills the worker for the remainder. "What made the compromise possible was that such a small number of people were affected," said Larry Levitt, a vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health care research and communications concern.
Last fall, as part of an economic stimulus package, the Senate Finance Committee passed a proposal to make a 75 percent health insurance subsidy available to all laid-off workers who lost jobs after Sept. 11. The subsidy proposal never reached the Senate floor. The cost estimate for this subsidy was $4.8 billion for 2002 alone.
JODY GOLDEN, who lost her job in January as a secretary for a fire protection systems company in Los Angeles, could have benefited from such a subsidy. Ms. Golden, 47, had been paying $8 a week in premiums for a company-sponsored health plan that provided medical, vision and dental coverage for her and her husband, Mario Vega, 49; he stays home to care for the couple's 12-year-old daughter, who is developmentally disabled. When Ms. Golden was laid off, she had the option of continuing her employer's health plan under Cobra for $540 a month, half of her monthly unemployment insurance benefit. She let her coverage lapse, too.
Ms. Golden wouldn't qualify for the new, trade-related tax credit. While it would be helpful, she is not sure that even a 65 percent subsidy is enough to make Cobra affordable. "It all boils down to money," she said. "And right now, none of us have enough."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Matthew Strauss) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (73%); FOOTWEAR MFG (63%); RELOCATIONS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); COLORECTAL CANCER (50%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TAX CREDITS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) ANDREWS, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGOR, ME, USA (53%) MAINE, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



428 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 5; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: Sweetie, Who's Slimming You This Season? 

BYLINE:  By KATE BETTS 

 BODY:
YOU can stare all day at the stylists, photographers and designers who will be flocking in and out of the Bryant Park tents for the New York fashion shows this week and still miss the accessory of the season. It's not some luscious, tangible object like Marc Jacobs's vintage-looking military jacket with chevrons and pewter buttons. The accessory of the moment is the diet.
 In the front row and backstage, count on the chatter to be peppered with talk of points and portions. Text messages will fly with the titles of diet books and "natural" appetite suppressants like Xenadrine and Hydroxycut. The names and numbers of obscure doctors will be scribbled messily inside Smythson leather-bound notebooks. And in some Celine Boogie bags, you might find a stainless-steel thermos of bancha twig tea, a Japanese concoction favored by macrobiotic eaters, who take great pains to explain that they are balancing their acidity with a judicious splash of alkaline. Or something. 
 Like label groupies devoted slavishly to one designer for a season before moving on to the next hot thing, fashion and Hollywood folk have fallen for fad diets and are enticing friends to join them. They are creating mini-societies, each with a common devotion to one regime, and along with it the giddy sense of being in on something new, of belonging to a group that's cool. 
Can there be any news in the fact that fashion and body-obsessed celebrities are chattering about diets? The real stop-the-presses story would be if the fashionistas gathering this week in New York for their semiannual round of designer shows and latte bingeing had renounced their quasi-pathological obsession with weight. Diets have always been woven into the life of the image-conscious, but it used to be something you didn't admit -- like the model "sent away" to drop five pounds before she could work again. Now diets are discussed openly, unashamedly, cheerfully. Having a diet is almost . . . de rigueur.
"Diets had a connotation of shame before," said Brana Wolf, a prominent fashion stylist. "Now it's, like, Hey, who's your doctor? Today it's a swapping of information like never before."
The latest trend among the style-setters and celebrities is to claim membership in a diet tribe -- a group whose individuals happily share their shortcuts, chemical-free protein bars and secret splurges. While Gwyneth Paltrow and Madonna were performing onstage in London last season, they bonded over a macrobiotic regimen featuring the green bancha twig tea. Jennifer Aniston reportedly turned the cast of "Friends" on to her Zone program. The model Amber Valetta and Orlando Pita, a hairstylist, have introduced a bevy of fashion pals, including the designer Narciso Rodriguez and the photographer Steven Meisel, to a New York chiropractor and nutritionist named Charles Passler.
Dr. Marion Nestle, chairwoman of nutrition and food studies at New York University, said that while there was comfort in numbers, hopping onto a diet bandwagon is rarely a formula for successful long-term weight loss.
"Because somebody says it works, other people try it," Dr. Nestle said. "The novelty is fun, and these diets do work for a very limited time. 
"Everyone is looking for easy ways to do it, but these diets are difficult to do. It's not a normal eating pattern to exclude whole food groups from what you eat, so you eventually stop and gain the weight back and start all over again."
Unlike the situation in fashion, where innovation is the relentless mantra, the most popular diets aren't necessarily the newest ones. Despite the endless stream of newfangled ways to count calories and cut fat, it's the vintage systems like Weight Watchers, the Atkins program, macrobiotic diets and even Dolly Parton's program of eating many tiny meals that seem to have the strongest pull. Maybe that is because, just like fashion trends, diets slip in and out of vogue. And, just like the Marc Jacobs military jacket, the vintage aspect of a diet can hold a lot of appeal.
"It's funny that these old-school diets keep coming back," said Angela Mariani, a fashion publicist who has done the 20-year-old Herbalife diet twice. "People remember their mothers doing Atkins."
Now, a healthy slice of New York's high society is hooked on Atkins, including the jet-setting sisters Alexandra Von Furstenberg and Marie-Chantal of Greece, who swear by it. Samantha Boardman, a regular on the New York-Palm Beach circuit, was so taken by the whole Atkins lifestyle that she briefly considered dropping out of her psychiatry residency at the New York University Medical School to work as an apprentice to the creator of the diet, Dr. Robert C. Atkins, at the Atkins Center for Complementary Medicine on the East Side.
These days Dr. Atkins, whose protein diet allows the consumption of fat but not carbohydrates, is experiencing a somewhat triumphant revival: the latest edition of his 1972 book, updated and retitled "Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution," has been hovering at or near the top of The New York Times's list of best-selling advice, how-to and miscellaneous paperbacks for 275 weeks. 
The Atkins method isn't the only one that has captivated the fashion and Hollywood crowds. Thanks to Rosie O'Donnell and her former publicist Jennifer Glaisek, Weight Watchers has also gripped Hollywood. Over a year ago, Ms. O'Donnell conscripted her entire staff to follow the regime as she did so herself and discussed it on the air. Soon a dozen of Ms. Glaisek's colleagues at the powerful public relations firm of PMK/HBH were also showing up for weekly weigh-ins at the offices of the "Rosie" show.
"It was the visual of Jennifer Glaisek," said Toby Fleischman, a PMK/HBH publicist who joined the group. "Visually, she looked really good. She lost a lot of weight, and that inspired the rest of us. I did Weight Watchers when I was 14, and it was a very humiliating experience, but this time Rosie was often at the meetings, and there was a great sense of camaraderie."
The group, all women, stuck together in the Weight Watchers meetings for only about six months, just long enough to squeeze into Seven low-rider jeans. Like fashion trends, diet tribes often maintain a life span of only that long. 
"It died off around the holidays," Ms. Fleischman said. "The career lifestyle of a publicist just isn't that conducive to the points system."
But as with any trend, denim or otherwise, there is always something new to move along to, even if it isn't necessarily so new. The Zone, a diet created by Dr. Barry Sears in the late 1980's and introduced to a wider public in a best-selling book in 1995, has kept a firm grip on a group of Hollywood devotees for seven years. Jennifer Aniston is the most outspoken one, but Cindy Crawford, Kristin Davis and Courtney Love have also been in the Zone tribe, adhering to the diet's allowance of meals with carefully measured proportions of protein and carbohydrate that are prepared and delivered to each participant's home every day in black plastic boxes (at $4.95 each). The only problem is that after a while, some people grow sick of the food.
"It's like hospital food," said Art Luna, a popular Hollywood hairstylist who works with Anjelica Huston and Reese Witherspoon. "Anyway, I hear Sugar Busters is on its way back," he said of a diet that restricts sugar and refined carbohydrates. Mr. Luna, who recently dropped 15 pounds on a diet he concocted himself, swears by the oldest diet trick in the book: eat less.
"It's the Dolly Parton portion control diet," he said. "You just eat fist-size portions of the food you'd normally eat. It's a very 1950's way of eating."
Not everyone following a diet is trying to lose weight. Many fashion professionals and celebrities seek out diet doctors or nutritionists for advice on how they can eliminate stress, stop smoking or generally change an unhealthy lifestyle.
That was the case for Gwyneth Paltrow, who, after five bouts with a nasty flu virus, decided it was time to take steps. Her yoga teacher, Eddie Stern, recommended a nutritionist who prescribed a macrobiotic diet.
"I was working on 'Possession' in London at the time," Ms. Paltrow said. "And it's very hard to avoid dairy and meat there, so I had all this stuff brought over, and it happened to be macrobiotic. Everyone laughed at me, but even my brother, who is really a bacon cheeseburger kind of guy, now loves the food."
Fashion people, who tend to like their diets custom tailored like their clothes, often gravitate to diet doctors who give them individually designed programs for losing weight. The designers Michael Kors and Isaac Mizrahi put the name of Dr. Jairo Rodriguez, a chiropractor who also advises patients on nutrition, into circulation along the front row several seasons ago. Dr. Charles Passler is the latest favorite for weight-conscious fashion people like Dylan Lauren, the daughter of Ralph, and the Estee Lauder model Carolyn Murphy. 
Dr. Passler said he has a lot of patients from the fashion world mostly because of the professional pressures for them to look good and because many of them are tired of quick-fix diet fads or ephedrine-based appetite suppressants that make them feel unhealthy.
"People are realizing they need to be foundationally well," Dr. Passler said. 
"People are tired of just running around after the latest, greatest restaurant, the miracle pill, the therapy of the month. They want something that works for them. I don't know if it's cyclical, or because of the economy or terrorism, but it seems that people are looking to learn how to manage their lifestyle when it comes to food."
So through a mix of biofeedback, nutritional supplements and applied kinesiology -- a technique that supposedly determines a person's affinity for food types by fluctuations in muscle strength -- Dr. Passler tells his patients what he thinks will work for them nutritionally.
"I worry sometimes that he has too many fashion patients," said Ms. Wolf, the stylist, who has been in the Passler tribe for three years. "I warned him, but then I thought, 'These are people who will go once and never go again.' " Like all fashion accessories, the diet never lasts more than a season.

GRAPHIC: Photos: CALORISTAS -- The Atkins diet is favored by Marie-Chantal of Greece, at left above, and her sister Alexandra Von Furstenberg. Gwyneth Paltrow, right, modified a macrobiotic diet. Narciso Rodriguez, top right, was referred to a New York chiropractor and nutritionist. (Patrick McMullan, above; Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times, top right); (Stuart Atkins/Getty Images)(pg. 4) Drawing (Stephen Savage)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); DIETING (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); NUTRITION (89%); EATING DISORDERS (70%); TEXT MESSAGING (55%) WEIGHT; MODELS (PROFESSIONAL); CELEBRITIES 

PERSON: MADONNA (79%); MARC JACOBS (57%); GWYNETH PALTROW (50%); JENNIFER ANISTON (50%) BETTS, KATE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



429 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of Drought 

 BODY:
Many of America's farmers and ranchers are in a bad way. Some parts of the country are now enduring a fifth consecutive year of drought. Yields are dismal, families desperate. That said, it was mainly politics, not compassion, that drove the Senate last week to approve nearly $6 billion in emergency drought relief, thereby defying President Bush and deepening Washington's budget woes. Budget experts say that with only modest adjustments, the Senate could have easily extracted the $6 billion in drought relief from the extravagant $180 billion farm-subsidy bill it approved last spring. But that would have required trimming some of the bill's lavish entitlements, a step few senators were prepared to take.
 As the midterm elections draw near, it is becoming increasingly clear that control of the Senate, where the Democrats have a one-vote margin, may hinge on what happens in a few closely contested, sparsely populated states where regional concerns outweigh big issues like the economy, taxes, corporate malfeasance and even Iraq. A case in point is this summer's forest fires, another natural disaster that, like drought, has created both personal hardship and bad public policy. Western and Plains-state senators are falling all over each other to see who can cut down the most trees in the name of fire control. 
 But nothing quite matches farm policy for election-year mischief. Back when the 10-year omnibus farm bill was passed last spring -- a bill, incidentally, that represented a staggering increase over the money the federal government had already been spending on farm programs -- Senate leaders said there would be no further need for "ad hoc" disaster payments. But as the drought worsened and the election neared, these promises shriveled like autumn corn.
Not surprisingly, farm-state senators in tight races led the debate in favor of aid. The Democrats included Paul Wellstone of Minnesota, Tim Johnson of South Dakota, Jean Carnahan of Missouri and Tom Harkin of Iowa, a co-sponsor with the majority leader, Tom Daschle, of last spring's gargantuan bill. Republicans like Wayne Allard of Colorado and Tim Hutchinson of Arkansas, equally worried about retaining their seats, joined the chorus.
The Bush administration promptly complained about the bill's budgetary impact. One prominent Republican senator who is not facing re-election this fall, Phil Gramm of Texas, said he did not want to hear any more lectures from the Democrats about deficit spending, and he had a point. Mr. Daschle's home state, South Dakota, has been the epicenter of farm bill politics, and he probably bears more responsibility than any other legislator for this unconscionable overspending.
Nevertheless, Mr. Bush cannot escape all the blame. A little more than a year ago, when Congress first took up the farm bill, the president promised a different course. Lavish subsidies, he argued, stimulate excess production, hurt the environment and benefit only a select group of big growers at enormous public expense.
As it happened, there was a reform vehicle readily at hand that would have made the omnibus farm bill fairer and cheaper. A bill sponsored by Senator Richard Lugar, Republican of Indiana, would have helped farmers buy generous insurance against economic downturns of all kinds. The program would have covered all farmers, big and small, including livestock producers, who are excluded from traditional commodity payment programs but whose sorry plight is one of the main reasons why Congress is now seeking emergency relief.
But Mr. Bush did not lift a finger on behalf of the Lugar bill, and in the end the old and manifestly inequitable price-support system was allowed to prevail. In effect, by not vetoing the farm bill or working harder for an alterative, Mr. Bush allowed Congress to put politics ahead of principle and sound policy. He should not be surprised that the Senate is trying to do so again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); POPULATION DENSITY (73%); FOREST FIRES (72%); FIRES (67%); MISCONDUCT (54%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (52%) AGRICULTURE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; ELECTIONS; DROUGHT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM HARKIN (77%); TOM DASCHLE (77%); DICK LUGAR (58%); WAYNE ALLARD (57%); TIM JOHNSON (57%); PHIL GRAMM (57%) LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



430 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Courtside Tickets for Life 

 BODY:
Other than the cost of a divorce lawyer, it is hard to imagine what Jack Welch has to pay for out of his own pocket. According to documents filed by his estranged wife, Jane B. Welch, as part of their divorce proceedings, Mr. Welch, the retired General Electric chief executive, even gets free flowers and toiletries in the $15 million apartment that G.E. maintains for him in Manhattan. 
 The delicious little details in Mr. Welch's retirement package -- which Mr. Welch says his wife is exaggerating -- almost overshadow its considerable cost to G.E. shareholders. They are being asked to underwrite Mr. Welch's regal lifestyle even though they paid him handsomely while he was on the job and provide him with a generous pension. But nobody should be blinded to what it says about the current state of corporate governance in America. Like other deals struck in the age of the imperial chief executive, Mr. Welch's retirement package -- negotiated in 1996, five years before he stepped down as chief executive -- treats him like a sovereign entitled to all the fruits of the realm. In so doing, it blurs the line between corporate and personal resources. 
 This is the same confusion that at other companies led to far more egregious practices, like the granting and forgiveness of sweetheart loans to executives, and the chief executives' abuse of their companies' relationships with investment banks. It is unfortunate that G.E., a respected and widely emulated company, would contribute to this trend.
The company should also be ashamed that shareholders had to learn the particulars of Mr. Welch's lavish deal from a divorce case. And Mrs. Welch spared no detail. To begin with, there were all those Yankees, Knicks, Red Sox, Wimbledon, U.S. Open and opera tickets to which Mr. Welch presumably had first dibs. In addition, G.E. provides its former chief executive with the use of the company Boeing 737, four country-club memberships, satellite TV at his four homes and all the costs of maintaining his G.E.-owned Manhattan apartment -- from the servants to the food, wine and toiletries.
G.E.'s shareholders had reason to be outraged before Mrs. Welch's court filing, given the company's practice of allowing its top executives to defer millions in compensation and then paying them an above-market interest rate on the money. But even the most jaded of executive compensation experts found Mr. Welch's richly accessorized retirement-to-grave security package grotesque. 
General Electric's board, and Mr. Welch, should have known better. Mr. Welch may have done wonders for shareholders during his tenure, but he was well compensated for his performance, to a point where his net worth is now estimated to run well into the hundreds of millions. He should be encouraged to spend some of that fortune. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); TRENDS (78%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%); ETHICS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%) EDITORIALS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (93%) WELCH, JACK; WELCH, JANE BEASLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



431 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Could Striking First Mean Striking Out?

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
As he implored the world on Thursday to disarm Saddam Hussein's Iraq before it unleashes a nuclear, chemical or biological whirlwind, President Bush made a blunt argument that boiled down to this: In dealing with rogue nations and suicidal terrorists, an ounce of pre-emption is worth a pound of deterrence.
 "With every step the Iraqi regime takes toward gaining and deploying the most terrible weapons," Mr. Bush told the United Nations General Assembly, "our own options to confront that regime will narrow." 
 Pre-emption, or prevention, as a tool of diplomacy and military policy is hardly new. The Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe after World War II was a complex web of economic assistance backed up by military muscle -- aimed at pre-empting Communist hegemony on a continent twice consumed by war in the 20th century. 
But Mr. Bush's current prescriptions go well beyond the geopolitical equivalent of an apple a day. More clearly than ever, he signaled that the United States is prepared to strike Iraq militarily, and all but alone if necessary, to topple Mr. Hussein and thwart his continued efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction.
For many in Mr. Bush's wary audience of nearly 200 nations, and other foreign policy experts, merely the notion raises sobering questions about traditional concepts of deterrence that have kept any number of mortal enemies, from India and Pakistan to North and South Korea, from trying to blow the other up first.
The administration may argue persuasively that a pre-emptive move is necessary, because the mere presence of American military might may not deter a despot like Mr. Hussein from slipping chemical weapons, whose source might never be traced, to a shadowy terrorist group. But if Mr. Hussein believes that Washington might strike first, could that be an extra incentive for him to make common cause with forces hostile to American power -- or to strike first himself? By elevating pre-emption so prominently in the hierarchy of options, and defining it so explicitly and provocatively in military terms, the administration may be treading on a delicate and potentially dangerous path.
In the Clinton administration, aggressive diplomacy helped freeze North Korea's nuclear program and secure nuclear materials in what had been the former Soviet Union's arsenal. 
"We saw pre-emption as an important and legitimate arrow in the quiver," said Ashton B. Carter, a former assistant secretary of defense and the co-author with former Defense Secretary William J. Perry of "Preventive Defense." "But when one talks about doctrines and so on, it implies that it's a preferred course."
And that's the very implication that gives Dr. Carter pause. "When you're dealing with weapons of mass destruction, you don't have the luxury that armies and nations had in times past, when you mobilized the nation and its industries to respond to an attack," added Dr. Carter, now at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. "It's an appropriate question to ask whether the world now admits of that. At the same time, it's a big enough change, and a sensitive enough issue, that we need to not enunciate it as a general principle, if in fact it's not a very good generalized policy."
Last week, Mr. Bush made a public demonstration of willingness to honor the traditional rules of the game. He not only appealed to the General Assembly for action, but he dispatched Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to help draft a new Security Council resolution that would make the point that Iraq has already "unilaterally subverted" the United Nations. 
A senior administration official acknowledged that it was not in the interests of the United States to apply pre-emptive action except in "a fairly narrow range of cases."
"First of all, it isn't new," the official said of the approach. "All that happened here is that it was more explicitly stated. You would want to exhaust a lot of other possibilities first, including in this case."
The president's aides have taken to invoking the 1962 Cuban missile crisis as a moment when President John F. Kennedy was prepared to launch a pre-emptive strike to take out Soviet missiles in Cuba before they were fully operational. In the end, though, Kennedy chose a naval blockade, which he was careful to call a "quarantine," because a blockade is an act of war.
"A pre-emptive strike was one that he considered," said Theodore C. Sorenson, a White House aide at the time, "but he also considered the innocent lives that would be lost, the international laws that would be broken and the allies and friends around the world who would be disaffected -- as any thoughtful president would."
But Philip D. Zelikow, a historian at the University of Virginia who is an expert on the crisis and served on the National Security Council staff in the first Bush administration, said the missile crisis was "the most relevant analogy."
"Kennedy chose a diplomatic route, but he delivered an ultimatum, backed by the threat of military force," Mr. Zelikow said. "He insisted that those missiles be removed, and if they were not removed, he threatened to remove them with military action."
Of course, President Bush, like his father before him a decade ago, may yet hope to avoid a military campaign in Iraq. "War is never inevitable," Secretary Powell insisted on Friday. 
But on the same day, Mr. Bush said that it was "highly doubtful" that Mr. Hussein would comply with weapons inspections. Last week, Mr. Bush emphasized Mr. Hussein's decade-long defiance of the United Nations resolutions, not the United States's demand, first formulated under President Bill Clinton, for regime change in Baghdad. But he clearly believes that the one goal depends on the other.
"The president's strong card on this is weapons of mass destruction," said Gary Sick, a former National Security Council staffer in the Ford, Carter and Reagan administrations who now leads the Middle East Institute at Columbia University. "On the terrorism side, I think he has a very hard case to make." In the first days after the hijackings, Mr. Sick acknowledged that he was among those who assumed that Al Qaeda had state assistance, and that Iraq was a logical suspect. But, Mr. Sick said, he changed his mind: "I think we underestimated Al Qaeda and the degree of organization it had."
His concern now, he said, was that "if Saddam sees us coming, and if we really push the idea that pre-emption is acceptable, what's to say that Saddam won't think he can hit us first?"
"The evidence that he is going after us is limited," he said. "The evidence that we are going after him is abundant. If I were him, I would certainly be thinking about how I can pre-position myself to strike back."
"To some degree, our emphasis on going in is not only an incentive but almost an imperative for him to do something," Mr. Sick said. "It is actually the reverse of deterrence; we are goading him to do more."

GRAPHIC: Photo: American soldiers from the 82nd Airborne Division boarding helicopters in Afghanistan earlier this month. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); ARMIES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; MILITARY STRATEGY AND TACTICS 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%) PURDUM, TODD S; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



432 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Putting aFinancial Crisis Aside For a Shared Moment of Grief

BYLINE:  By Edward Wong (COMPILED BY RICK GLADSTONE) 

 BODY:
A new chief executive is not often called on to mourn. Even more rare is publicly demonstrating that grief alongside his predecessor. 
But last Wednesday, the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, Glenn F. Tilton, the new chief executive of UAL, the parent company of United Airlines, joined his predecessor, John W. Creighton Jr., at a memorial service in Manhattan for the flight crew members who died last year. 
 United and American Airlines together lost 4 planes, 8 pilots, 25 flight attendants and 2 off-duty customer service agents. The pilots' and flight attendants' unions at the two airlines organized the service, which took place in Washington Square Park, not far from ground zero. It included a reading of the names of the employees who died and speeches by ministers and union leaders. Neither Mr. Tilton nor Mr. Creighton spoke, and they stood in dark suits among hundreds of crew members in navy blue uniforms. 
 Paul Whiteford, who serves on UAL's board as a representative of the pilots' union, introduced the two executives in the middle of the service. Both men nodded quietly, in deference to one of the real powers at United, which is 55 percent owned by employees and has been struggling with a financial crisis that could force it into bankruptcy. Last month, Mr. Creighton said executives would try to get concession agreements from unions by tomorrow and then file a revised application for a $1.8 billion federal loan guarantee. The unions have now pressured United into scrapping that deadline. 
If there was tension between management and workers, it did not show on Wednesday. When Mr. Whiteford pointed out Mr. Tilton, there were some loud cheers from the crowd. Edward Wong

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenn F. Tilton 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); HIJACKING (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (55%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (90%) WONG, EDWARD; TILTON, GLENN F; CREIGHTON, JOHN W JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



433 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: The Export-Import Bank: Who Is Helping Whom? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "A Guardian of Jobs or a 'Reverse Robin Hood'?" (Sept. 1), which discussed the roles of the Export-Import Bank of the United States in providing credit aid: 
 The article included much criticism of the bank's operations but dealt inadequately with the very real contribution of this government entity -- in fact, its mandate -- to create jobs for Americans through exports. 
This mandate was strengthened in June when Congress and the Bush administration reauthorized the bank to increase its small-business commitment and provide greater support for companies owned by women and minorities. By law, it must now allocate 20 percent of its appropriation to small and midsized firms.
Boeing is criticized in the article as a big company that has used the bank's financing. Yet Boeing employs more than 30,000 suppliers to build its jumbo jets. Many are small-business contractors. All presumably contribute jobs to the American economy.
Consider the world in the absence of the Export-Import Bank. American businesses big and small face a hugely competitive global marketplace. No less than 16 foreign credit agencies aggressively support their domestic exporters. Who better to have on our side than the Export-Import Bank? 

CONSIDER W. ROSS
Washington, Sept. 5

The writer is executive director of the Bankers' Association for Finance and Trade.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (94%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (75%); JOB CREATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (91%); BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (91%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



434 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: For Now, Trading Allies for Votes 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
The German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, may just win the German election by running against America.
 In a set of polls just a week before next Sunday's vote, Mr. Schroder is pulling ahead of his conservative rival, Edmund Stoiber. The margin is narrow, but the momentum is clear -- and so is the reason. 
 Appealing to Germany's much avowed love of peace, Mr. Schroder has campaigned as the leader who will say no to President Bush's plans for war in Iraq. Mr. Schroder has cast doubt on the wisdom of the policy, on the evidence of any new threat from Iraq, and even on Mr. Bush's motivation, suggesting that Mr. Bush has "changed the goal" from getting arms inspectors back into Iraq to "regime change."
Suddenly, the cliches about the close German-American relationship seem hollow. Under the pressure of his campaign, Mr. Schroder has outraged Mr. Bush, senior American officials say, shocked Germany's European allies, disconcerted his own Foreign Ministry, and no doubt pleased Saddam Hussein.
But Mr. Schroder may also find himself enough votes to avoid becoming the first German chancellor since World War II to lose an election for a second term.
Without question, officials and analysts say, damage has been done to the glossy relationship between Germany and its closest ally, the United States. But the extent of the damage is a matter of some debate.
American officials say Mr. Bush has lost confidence in Mr. Schroder and is personally offended by his open lack of good faith, especially after Mr. Bush promised Mr. Schroder when they met here in May that no decision would be made on Iraq until after the German election.
Mr. Bush, these officials suggest, will never again listen seriously to Mr. Schroder. For his part, Mr. Schroder insists that he is devoted to the alliance and is acting as a good friend must: with the open, blunt discussion that Americans value.
Surely if Mr. Stoiber manages to turn the trend around with only a week to go and ends up as chancellor, the United States will be relieved. Mr. Stoiber, no advocate of war with Iraq, has been careful to take the French position -- a war can only be mandated by the United Nations Security Council after Iraq is given at least one more chance to let the arms inspectors do their work.
But Mr. Stoiber has not found it politic to defend Mr. Bush in a Germany where the American president has lost public confidence in squabbles over the Kyoto treaty on the environment, the International Criminal Court and the urgency of attacking Iraq. Mr. Stoiber also has wavered. First he wanted to say nothing at all on Iraq, then he talked about keeping "options open" in a "hypothetical circumstance," and then he emphasized the need for United Nations approval.
It was only on Friday, in a last debate in Parliament, that he accused Mr. Schroder of "anti-Americanism" and of "playing with people's fears" about war to divert attention from the poor economy.
But many Germans seem to fear American military action in Iraq more than they fear Mr. Hussein.
So when Mr. Schroder answered by simply repeating that "Germany will not take part in a war on Iraq," whether supported by the United Nations or otherwise, "Mr. Stoiber could only sound like a warmonger," said Henning Riecke of the German Council on Foreign Relations.
Elizabeth Pond, editor of the trans-Atlantic edition of "Internationale Politik," a German foreign-policy quarterly, sees "a real danger of lasting damage" in relations.
If there is a war against Iraq, she says, "Germany can't afford to go its own special way and remain isolated." Mr. Schroder, she said, "will have to find some way to walk back up the plank, but it will just reinforce the consequences for both sides."
In 20 years of watching European-American relations, she said, things are at their worst. American and European identities are going in different directions, "and I don't think the opinion polls reflect the depth of the estrangement."
Karl Kaiser, the director of the German Council on Foreign Relations and a lifelong nurturer of the German-American alliance, is troubled by Mr. Schroder's willingness "to exploit this deep-seated desire of Germans to have peace," which some, he said, excluding himself, "consider to be anti-American."
Germany's Nazi past had been a strong argument never to engage in military action, Mr. Kaiser said. "But with the misery of ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, the argument was turned around -- that because of Germany's past, the country had to take part in military action there."
Mr. Schroder and his foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, are considered to have made a historic contribution, which only Germany's left could have done, to push the country to take up military responsibilities to its NATO and European allies. Germany participated in the 1999 Kosovo war, in peacekeeping activities in Bosnia, Kosovo and Macedonia, and again in Afghanistan, where German special forces have fought alongside the Americans and where German troops make up a large part of the peacekeeping force in Kabul.
The United States gave Mr. Schroder credit for putting his own job on the line to push German participation through Parliament. But that credit has now been squandered, American officials say.
After the election, both sides will face problems, Mr. Kaiser said. The Americans will return to a multilateral approach, and Germany will have to come back to some form of participation.
But Mr. Kaiser also faults officials in Washington. "We would never have had this problem so sharply had the American administration had a major dialogue with a close ally instead of issuing rhetorical denunciations of what have been the principles of our common policy for more than a decade," he said.
Josef Janning, deputy director of the Center for Applied Policy in Munich, is concerned about the long-term consequences. "After the elections, the Germans will try to return to business as usual, but Bush will remember this," he said. "I fear that in Europe, too, Germany may be seen as a less serious partner -- because of its failed defense reform and its unsteady policy course in a crisis like this one." 
Germany has had a longstanding desire for a permanent seat on the Security Council beside Britain and France. But even German Foreign Ministry officials now acknowledge that the United States will oppose any such change.
For Stefan Kornelius, the editorial page editor of Suddeutsche Zeitung, both Mr. Bush and Mr. Schroder are "merciless populists" playing to domestic audiences, "both ready to sacrifice the classic tools of foreign policy to their overriding goals."
The irony, he suggested, is that Mr. Schroder's position on Iraq weakens the faction at the United Nations that could put the brakes on Mr. Bush. "Thus the chancellor has raised the risk of war, rather than reduced it. Bush need not pay any heed to his querulous allies, to his German brother in spirit, ever again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, top, has risen in polls and seized the initiative for his campaign after his stand against the United States' push for an Iraq invasion. His challenger, Edmund Stoiber, has not found it politic to stake out an opposing position on the issue. (Getty Images); (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); TRENDS (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); STOIBER, EDMUND; ERLANGER, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (97%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%) GERMANY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



435 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Hopes and Uncertainties High for North Korea-Japan Talks 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
As the prime minister of Japan, Junichiro Koizumi, prepares to travel to North Korea on Tuesday for the first summit meeting between the countries, speculation is rife here about what to expect from a meeting between Japan's iconoclastic leader and Asia's least predictable despot.
 Some analysts have predicted that Mr. Koizumi may bring back some of the 11 Japanese citizens who are believed to have been kidnapped by North Korea, some of whom have been missing since the 1970's. 
 Other reports have gone further, suggesting that the meeting may produce an extension of North Korea's moratorium on missile tests, and perhaps even an announcement that inspectors are welcome to certify that North Korea is not producing nuclear weapons.
The stakes involved for all concerned seem relatively clear. For Mr. Koizumi, whose 17 months in office have been lacking in major domestic achievements, his North Korea trip looms as a critical gamble on foreign policy that could solidify or break his hold on office.
For Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, meanwhile, normalization with Japan, after 54 years without diplomatic relations, may seem equally vital. Mr. Kim desperately needs foreign capital, and signs suggest he is also eager to soften attitudes in Washington, where President Bush has cited North Korea as part of an "axis of evil."
This apparent confluence of interests has led many to predict diplomatic success.
"If Koizumi can achieve a breakthrough with North Korea, his political reputation will receive a huge boost," said Noriyuki Suzuki, a Tokyo journalist and an analyst of North Korean affairs. "At the same time, the North Koreans are eager for money, and for better relations with their neighbors. The timing is good, because they are worried about having the hostility of the United States focused on them after Iraq."
For weeks now, the Japanese government has defined success almost solely in terms of obtaining the cooperation of the North Koreans in accounting for -- and ideally returning -- its 11 missing citizens. 
The fate of the people thought to have been abducted has come to overshadow traditionally weightier matters of national security, like North Korea's suspected nuclear, chemical and biological weapons programs.
North Korea, meanwhile, has signaled its interest in obtaining a public Japanese apology and financial compensation for abuses committed by Japan during 35 years of colonial rule, ending in 1945. 
In an interview with the Kyodo news agency today, Mr. Kim was quoted as saying that, "In order to liquidate the past," Japan must "apologize sincerely" for suffering and damages inflicted on Koreans "and the issue of compensation must also be correctly resolved."
South Korea received $500 million from Japan when the countries normalized relations in 1965, and during bilateral discussions two years ago, North Korea reportedly demanded a payment of $13 billion. Although the higher sum can be explained in large part by nearly four decades of inflation, it was rejected at the time by Tokyo, and, in light of Japan's economic malaise, seems even less likely to be accepted now. 
Given the secretive nature of preparations for Mr. Koizumi's visit, and with hints of discord showing in how the two nations discuss each other's priority issues, it is unclear if they are close to an agreement on compensation or, indeed, whether discussions have even progressed that far. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); LIQUIDATIONS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); NEWS REPORTING (69%) JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; KIDNAPPING; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) FRENCH, HOWARD W; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



436 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Sets Terms for U.N. Return 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz said today that Iraq would let United Nations weapons inspectors return only under a comprehensive agreement that would prevent an attack by the United States and lift the United Nations sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990.
 Mr. 
Aziz held a news conference to respond to President Bush's speech at the United Nations on Thursday. 
 "If there is a solution that maintains Iraq's sovereignty, dignity and legitimate rights and prevents aggression, we are ready," he said.
But he said Iraq would bar inspectors if "there is no honest, balanced and credible formula that will take us to the truth." 
He accused the United States and Britain of blocking efforts to resolve the arms inspection issue.
He also said he feared that if the inspectors were readmitted, a crisis over their activities could soon arise that the United States would use as a pretext to attack.
He cited the bombing campaign in December 1998 as an example. The United States and Britain attacked Iraq for four days during that month for what was seen as Iraq's failure to cooperate with United Nations arms monitors.
He also rebutted Mr. Bush's charges that Baghdad was developing weapons of mass destruction, harboring terrorist groups and threatening its neighbors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%) EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) AZIZ, TARIQ (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



437 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ENVOYS; 
U.N. Debate Over Bush's Stance on Iraq Draws Fresh Skepticism, and Some Support

BYLINE:  By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
With some American allies forcefully reaffirming their support for the United States' campaign to persuade the United Nations to bear down on the Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, differences with other influential nations emerged sharply today.
 In Britain's strongest statement yet on the issue, the foreign secretary, Jack Straw, said in a Sky Television interview to be broadcast Sunday that Mr. Hussein's government will have to fall if it does not comply with Security Council resolutions requiring it to rid itself of biological, chemical or nuclear weapons. 
 "Either he deals with those weapons of mass destruction or his regime will have to end," Mr. Straw said. "But the choice is his, and he hasn't got much time to make up his mind." 
In an address today to the General Assembly, Mr. Straw closely echoed President Bush's appeal here on Thursday, saying, "The authority of the United Nations itself is at stake."
In contrast, Germany's foreign minister, Joschka Fisher, who spoke soon after, said that Germany was "full of deep skepticism" about the United States' threat of military action to topple Mr. Hussein if he did not abide by United Nations resolutions. Contending that international efforts to fight terror, rebuild Afghanistan and calm the conflict in the Middle East could be destabilized by a military strike against Iraq, he appealed for a diplomatic solution.
President Bush, who met at Camp David today with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, noted in his weekly radio broadcast that Congress was scheduled to begin debate on the Iraq issue next week, and added, "Congress must make it unmistakably clear that when it comes to confronting the growing danger posed by Iraq's efforts to develop or acquire weapons of mass destruction, the status quo is totally unacceptable." 
After an initial warm response to President Bush's decision to work through the United Nations to confront Iraq, many nations were more vocal about their reluctance to use a military force to topple the Iraqi leader.
Late on Friday, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan said in a news conference here that he had told President Bush in a meeting earlier that "the use of force is a last resort when there are no other options." While not a Security Council member this year, Japan is a politically important voice at the United Nations.
Now that the Bush administration is engaged with the Security Council on the issue, American diplomats, led by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, face a tricky task to craft a new resolution that will not go beyond the limited aim of most Council members to bring new pressure on Iraq for the inspectors' return. To meet Washington's goal, the resolution must also leave the way open for the United States to spearhead military action.
After a closed meeting here, the foreign ministers of the Arab Group declined to issue any joint appeal to Iraq to allow the return of the inspectors. 
Only Egypt pressed Iraq's foreign minister, Naji Sabri, forcefully to readmit the inspectors, while others did not respond to an appeal by Secretary General Kofi Annan for help in getting them back in. The inspectors were withdrawn in late 1998 in advance of an American and British bombing raid on Baghdad, and have been barred bv Iraq since.
President Bush urged the United Nations "to show some backbone" on Iraq and made clear he was prepared to confront Mr. Hussein with or without world support.
"Not once, not twice, 16 times, he has defied the United Nations," Mr. Bush said of Mr. Hussein. "Enough is enough." 
"Make no mistake about it," he added, If the United States has "to deal with the problem, we'll deal with it." 
American diplomats, who have been pressing their case on all fronts, have made significant progress with Russia, a permanent, veto-bearing member of the Security Council. On Friday Russia issued a new warning to Iraq, saying that it would face consequences if it did not comply with United Nations resolutions.
A senior Bush administration official who negotiated with the Russians this week said the main argument has been economic. The message to the Russians, he said, is that "they're a lot more likely to get their debts paid off and have a better commercial relationship with Iraq if it's part of the international community again."
The official said the United States had not made specific offers, but did not rule out the possibility of negotiating explicit guarantees for Russian interests, mostly oil-related.
One area where differences loomed between the United States and other Council countries was over the role of the weapons inspectors. Many Council nations wanted to see a new measure that would secure the return of the inspectors and also allow them enough time to conduct substantial inspections. That could take at least six months, according to timetables laid out in earlier resolutions.
The Bush administration has outlined a much shorter time frame to see if Mr. Hussein has dismantled his weapons of mass destruction. 
In an interview on Wednesday, Hans Blix, the leader of the team of inspectors in charge of checking for biological and chemical weapons and long-range missiles, acknowledged that there were some limitations to what his team could accomplish even if it was allowed to return.
Mr. Blix said his inspectors might not be able to detect mobile laboratories for producing biological weapons materials, or underground storehouses for weapons substances, if the inspectors did not have information about such sites from the last time they were in Iraq or have not seen traces of them in satellite surveillance photography.
Mr. Blix said he had no evidence at this time that Iraq had such mobile units or storage depots or had pressed ahead with a prohibited weapons program. But he said he could not draw conclusions without inspections.
He argued that the presence of the weapons inspectors in Iraq would have great value because it would make it difficult for Mr. Hussein to complete production and placement of such weapons.
"If they were actually trying to pursue a program, then such an effort would become much more difficult if you have inspectors that are entitled to go anywhere in the country at any time without delay," Mr. Blix said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush welcomed a relaxed Silvio Berlusconi to Camp David yesterday. The Italian leader is a supporter of Mr. Bush's stand on Iraq. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JACK STRAW (79%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (52%) FISCHER, JOSCHKA (MIN); STRAW, JACK (SEC); PRESTON, JULIA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



438 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Who's That Upstart In the Ice Cream Case?

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
RICHARD LaMOTTA had a habit of dunking chocolate-chip cookies in milk. A quarter-century ago, it gave him the idea for the Chipwich -- ice cream sandwiched between the cookies. Now, as he nears retirement, he says he has ensured that Chipwich Inc., the company that grew from his idea, is passed on to an owner who will "preserve the heritage and treat it right."
 After talking to many potential buyers, including the giants of the ice cream industry, Mr. LaMotta, 60, sold Chipwich, based in Piermont, N.Y., for an undisclosed amount last month to Coolbrands International, a Canadian company that is largely unknown to Americans, including many in the ice cream business. 
 But Coolbrands is a growing force in the $4 billion frozen-treats market, having snapped up two companies besides Chipwich in the last few years. In July, it acquired Fruit-a-Freeze, a fruit bar maker based in Norwalk, Calif., for an undisclosed amount. In October 2000, it bought the Eskimo Pie Corporation of Richmond, Va., which invented the ice cream bar in 1921. 
Coolbrands executives say they are looking for more brands to buy, a relatively new approach for a company that has grown largely on the strength of a frozen yogurt franchise business and on brands it makes and sells under license from other food manufacturers.
Begun 16 years ago as a family-run frozen-yogurt store in Thornhill, a Toronto suburb, Coolbrands now sells products in 80 countries and is the third-largest producer of brand-name frozen treats, behind two multinational titans, Unilever and Nestle. Coolbrands is much smaller than both of them -- its annual sales are only $150 million -- but that is part of its appeal to single-brand entrepreneurs like Mr. LaMotta. 
"I didn't really want it to go to Unilever or Nestle," said Mr. LaMotta, who developed a friendly relationship with Coolbrands after his Chipwich partner, Sam Metzger, met a Coolbrands executive at a charitable event. "You really don't mean so much to the big players."
But the big players may start paying more attention to Coolbrands if its own expansion by acquisition keeps going. While specialized food companies have always been able to find profitable niches -- Green Mountain Coffee, Monterey Pasta and Smuckers jams are some examples -- their success can breed takeover interest from a much larger company that wants to increase its market share, said William Leach, a food industry analyst at Banc of America Securities. "Usually they end up being bought out, just because it's too tempting," Mr. Leach said.
Coolbrands executives hope to co-exist with the giants, limiting themselves to acquiring other frozen-dessert companies. They say their main business will continue to be making and selling ice cream and frozen desserts and candies under licensed household names like Weight Watchers, Tropicana and Betty Crocker.
The Coolbrands name appears only in tiny letters on its products. Rather than trumpeting its name, Coolbrands gets most of its business, as the company's co-chairman, Michael Serruya, put it, from persuading manufacturers of major brands "to hand over the rights to the frozen-dessert category." 
Coolbrands develops products for the licensing company, then makes, packages, promotes and distributes them through retailers like 7-Eleven convenience stores and Safeway supermarkets. Coolbrands pays a royalty on sales to the brand owner, typically 3 to 8 percent. 
"We spend a lot of time trying to identify brands that would translate into the frozen-dessert sector," Mr. Serruya said in an interview at Coolbrands' head office, a single floor of a modest building in Markham, another Toronto suburb. 
Coolbrands has been especially attracted to what Mr. Serruya called "strong nostalgic brands." 
Under license from Tropicana, for instance, Coolbrands has introduced a range of frozen juice bars. "We see it as a way to extend our brand reach," said Frank Hood, manager of trademark licensing for Tropicana, a unit of PepsiCo. "It's not something we could easily enter."
Coolbrands has similar deals with General Mills for frozen products under the Betty Crocker, Yoplait and Trix labels. General Mills retains the right to review new products produced under its brands as well as advertising, and to inspect Coolbrands' manufacturing plants.
Pez Candy of Orange, Conn. allows Coolbrands to produce a range of Pez pops, packaged with a Pez dispenser and two rolls of Pez candy. While Coolbrands marketers devised the idea, Scott McWhinnie, president of Pez, said "ultimately, we dictate what they do." 
Coolbrands earned 11.9 million Canadian dollars for the nine months through May, up 69 percent from the year-earlier period, on revenue of 155.9 million Canadian dollars, up 35 percent. Much of the growth has come from Weight Watchers Smart Ones, a line that includes low-fat ice-cream sandwiches and cups.
According to Mr. Serruya, revenue from the Weight Watchers line is likely to reach 55 million to 60 million Canadian dollars this year, up from 15 million two years ago. Last week, Wal-Mart Stores chose Coolbrands as its "vendor of the quarter" from 460 suppliers of frozen treats, largely reflecting the success of Weight Watchers products.
Many consumers may not know they are eating treats made by Coolbrands, but investors have clearly taken notice of the company. Its shares, listed on the Toronto exchange, soared from less than 2 Canadian dollars a year ago to more than 8 in July. They now trade at 6.83 Canadian dollars. 
But in a time of skepticism about business accountability, some of Coolbrands' insular corporate governance practices have raised eyebrows. Its six directors include Richard E. Smith, co-chairman and co-chief executive; David J. Stein, the other chief executive; Mr. Serruya, the other chairman; Mr. Serruya's brother, Aaron, the company's secretary; and Mr. Smith's son, David. The only outside director is a vice president of a Toronto drain construction company.
The management's near total domination of the board "is a real issue," said Jamie Spreng, an analyst at Canaccord Capital in Montreal. "We've been trying to stress that to the company."
Mr. Spreng said Coolbrands had also been "somewhat aggressive on revenue recognition" in its accounting. The company says its accounting is proper.
Mr. Serruya said the issue of outside directors was raised at every board meeting but that the present arrangement "seems to be working."
"We think we add as much value, if not more, as any outside director can," he added.
As Mr. Smith, the other chairman, sees it, "there was no lack of independent directors at Enron."
A CHALLENGE for Coolbrands, as well as each of its rivals, is to find new brand licenses and products that do not compete with products it already sells.
Mr. Spreng of Canaccord Capital said the frozen-novelty industry, which includes some kinds of ice cream, is mature. "You should not expect 20 percent annual revenue growth," he said, predicting that it would be little more than the inflation rate except for the occasional hot-selling product. Total supermarket sales of frozen novelties in the United States are estimated at slightly more than $2 billion a year, with roughly the same amount sold through convenience stores, according to Information Resources Inc.
Mr. Stein, the co-chief executive, estimated that Unilever, Nestle and Coolbrands combined had less than 50 percent of the frozen-novelty market, which means there were opportunities for acquisitions. Mr. Serruya said Coolbrands had identified eight companies, which he declined to name, "that in the next three to five years will have to sell out either to ourselves or to Nestle or Unilever."
As for new products, Coolbrands has added a sugar-free Eskimo Pie. A line of Chipwich low-fat and sugar-free products is planned.
Mr. Spreng said he saw opportunities in bringing two brands together -- to create, for example, a Weight Watchers Chipwich. "It's a way to try and extend the brands you have, and to take them to new regions of the country," he said.
Mr. LaMotta said he was encouraged enough that he accepted Coolbrands stock as part of the Chipwich sale. But Coolbrands gave him less stock than he wanted. So as soon as the deal closed, Mr. LaMotta asked for the name of a stockbroker in Toronto so he could buy more.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Coolbrands' co-chief executives, Richard Smith, left, and David Stein. (Mark Graham for The New York Times) Chart: "Heating Up"Shares of Coolbrands International, a Canadian frozen-dessert maker, have more than tripled since it announced its purchase of Eskimo Pie in May 2000. Graphs shows figures (In Canadian dollars) since 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (92%); FROZEN FOODS (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FROZEN DESSERTS (89%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); CONFECTIONERY (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); FROZEN PASTRY MFG (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); BRANDING (71%); PACKAGED GOODS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%) ICE CREAM; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: SWISHER HYGIENE INC (96%); MARS INC (85%); ESKIMO PIE CORP (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (54%); NESTLE SA (54%); MONTEREY GOURMET FOODS INC (51%); GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COOLBRANDS INTERNATIONAL; NESTLE SA; UNILEVER; CHIPWICH INC 

TICKER: SWSH (NASDAQ) (96%); SWI (TSX) (96%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); UNIA (AMS) (54%); UNA (BIT) (54%); UNA (AMS) (54%); UN (NYSE) (54%); ULVR (LSE) (54%); UL (NYSE) (54%); NESN (SWX) (54%); GMCR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (96%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (96%); SIC5142 PACKAGED FROZEN FOODS (96%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (96%); SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (54%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (54%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (51%); SIC2098 MACARONI, SPAGHETTI, VERMICELLI & NOODLES (51%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (51%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (51%) SIC5142 PACKAGED FROZEN FOODS; 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD; LAMOTTA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (90%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002 



439 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
OPEC Watches and Waits Ahead of Its Meeting
With the United States pushing for action against Iraq and oil prices rising on fears of war in the Persian Gulf, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is facing pressure to pump more oil.
 But as the cartel prepares to meet this week in Japan, members have indicated that OPEC will probably do nothing to rein in oil prices that hover around $30 a barrel. The cartel is grappling with the same uncertainty as the rest of the world and is taking a wait-and-see approach. Section A. 

Changes in Citigroup's Lending Unit
Citigroup will announce changes in marketing and other practices at its consumer lending business. The company is also trying to settle a lawsuit relating to the business. C2.

Leading AOL's Broadband Work
Lisa A. Hook, left, has been able to maneuver within AOL's bureaucracy to build a team of 40 people to start work on its broadband service. Now that her efforts have the backing of Jonathan F. Miller, the new chairman of the America Online business, Ms. Hook's unit is expected to gain in size and stature. C3.

Going Online to Buy a Car
As car makers roll out the 2003 models, the Internet is emerging as an important sales channel -- if not for completing transactions, then for getting consumers far along in the process. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C5.

Adelphia Reports Some Results
Adelphia has reported its first extensive financial results since filing for bankruptcy protection in June. For June, Adelphia reported a $101.8 million net loss on $281.9 million in revenue. For July, it reported a $72.4 million net loss on $269.9 million in revenue. C5.

The Internet and Its Use
A report has found that college students will graduate with expectations of the high-speed Internet that could push its development. C2.

A survey has found that 48 percent of Internet users have a TV in the same room as their computer, and use both at the same time. C3.

Intel Chip Blends Digital and Analog
Intel plans to announce a manufacturing process that the company says will make it possible to blend both digital and analog functions on a single silicon chip. C4.

A More Contrite Brand of Talk Radio
The firing of two radio hosts after they broadcast a live account of a couple having sex has had a sobering effect on shock radio, if only temporarily. C7.

A Battle Over Software Licensing
A proposal intended to standardize information technology licensing from state to state has ignited a battle between its supporters -- notably, the business software industry -- and the many forces who have joined to defeat it. The dispute involves a draft law aimed at establishing a national framework for laws governing the information economy. C3.

Ethics of Interviewing Terrorists
A report on Al Jazeera, the Arab television network, offering new information on the Sept. 11 attacks, received little more than a cursory nod from American media organizations, an indication of the concern many journalists have had about the network's ties to Al Qaeda. Felicity Barringer: Media. C7.

Buying Furniture for the Fun of It
Ikea, trying to fight off competitors in the furniture market, is starting a provocative ad campaign to encourage consumers to junk their household furnishings more frequently. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 8,312.69 down 114.51Nasdaq composite -- 1,291.40 down 3.9010-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.91% down 0.11The euro -- $0.9719 down 0.0090The dollar -- 121.73 yen up 3.34

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); CARTELS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BROADBAND (88%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (86%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); NEW ECONOMY (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (62%); ETHICS (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); AOL INC (56%); INTEL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



440 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
The battle lines are drawn in the struggle for a uniform standard in software licensing for all 50 states.

BYLINE:  By Laurie J. Flynn 

 BODY:
A PROPOSED law intended to standardize software licensing from state to state has ignited a battle between its supporters -- most notably, the business software industry -- and the many forces who have joined to defeat it.
 Opposition has united a strange collection of bedfellows: librarians, information-technology managers and corporate chief information officers, insurance and aerospace executives, and consumer groups. 
 The dispute involves a dense piece of legalese that has been scrutinized and debated for three years, although it was first proposed nearly a decade ago. Called the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act, the draft law aims to establish a single national framework for state laws governing the information economy -- laws that vary widely around the nation. 
Just as other laws apply to consumer products like cars and groceries, the new law would help states address concerns like warranties and licenses for packaged software that are particular to information products.
Three years ago, a conference of lawmakers from various states agreed to a version of the legislation, and started circulating it for adoption by individual states. So far, only two have passed it: Maryland and Virginia. Most of the nation's state attorneys general oppose the legislation, primarily because they see it as potentially overriding various state consumer protection laws already on the books.
One of the proposed law's main effects would be to make binding contracts of the consumer licenses that come with shrink-wrapped software -- despite the fact the buyer often cannot read the licensing agreement before buying and opening the package.
According to one critic of the measure, Randy Roth, an information-technology buyers' consultant in Des Moines, the fight to defeat the new commercial code may very well be the first time consumers and the insurance industry have been on the same side of a major legislative issue.
This week, a group opposing the proposed law, Americans for Fair Electronic Commerce Transaction, will hold its annual planning meeting in Washington, with the goal of girding the organization for the critical year ahead. The group will try to devise a strategy to prevent the uniform computer transactions act, which is known by the acronym Ucita, from gaining ground beyond the two states that have already adopted it.
The opponents argue that Ucita is too overreaching and unclear and gives software companies an unfair advantage over consumers, while giving consumers little recourse if they buy bad software. The opposition group "has always believed that Ucita is too broad, too complex and has too many problems, and that it should be scrapped and rewritten," said Carol Ashworth, who holds the title of "Ucita grass-roots coordinator" for the American Library Association.
The opponents contend that the software industry had far too much influence in the writing the legislation.
"It's like having the American Medical Association write the laws governing malpractice," said Edward Foster, a columnist for the computer trade magazine InfoWorld, who has been active in the fight against the proposal for the past eight years.
Insurers are opposing the legislation because they say it would make their heavily regulated businesses too vulnerable to the software companies. Under the proposed law, critics contend that software companies could disable a customer's software for perceived violations to the licensing agreement, or suspected piracy -- essentially bringing business to a halt.
"For us, there's more at stake because this industry is so dependent on computer software," said John Lobert, senior vice president for state government affairs for the Alliance of American Insurers, an industry trade group. "Anything that impacts how software is licensed affects the insurance industry."
The original version of the proposed code went so far as to let software companies electronically disable a program that was being used in violation of its license agreement. While that proviso was eliminated by recent amendments, critics like Mr. Lobert say so many loopholes remain in the statute that the amendments are almost meaningless.
Work on the proposal began in the early 1990's, after lawyers from the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws determined that existing product codes would not comfortably apply to software licensing. Not until 1999, after countless hours of debate and testimony, did the conference pass the information transaction act and send it to the states.
Since then, the statute has been embroiled in debate. In perhaps the biggest blow to the proposal, the American Bar Association, after studying the act, declined to endorse it and instead issued a long list of recommended amendments. In July, the commission of legislators made 38 amendments based on those recommendations, but opponents dismissed the revisions as inadequate.
To press their case, the pro-Ucita forces now intend to lobby states to enact the legislation. 
Mary Jo Dively, who was a consultant to the original drafters of the proposal and who is now vice president and chief counsel at Carnegie Mellon University, says that many of Ucita's opponents may not be accustomed to doing business within the framework of the commercial code, and that the changes the opposition group has suggested are unrealistic.
"The group would like to change Ucita to be vastly different from any commercial law in effect today," she said, "and it would have no chance of passing."
Accusations that the software industry unduly influenced the writing of the law, or that the law is biased in its favor, are unfounded, Ms. Dively said. "I don't think any one entity had more input than any other," she said. "What it does do over existing law is make it worse for the licensor."
Ucita's backers also point out that in Maryland and Virginia the same arguments that opposition group has put forth were debated at length and rejected. But Mr. Roth, one of the legislation's critics, argues that when Maryland and Virginia passed the law, the states were hoping to ride the tech boom of the late 1990's by making their states more attractive to software and Internet companies.
In the meantime, opponents are preparing to do battle in the upcoming legislative session. In their view, the stakes are high.
"If Ucita passes in the states," said David McMahon, a consumer affairs lawyer in Charleston, Va., and the consumer representative on the board of the opposition group, "anybody buying new computer software will have less protection than when a consumer buys a cheap used car."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (94%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LIBRARIANS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LIBRARIES (77%); INSURANCE (76%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (70%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (51%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; STATES (US); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INSURANCE 

COMPANY: AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION (50%)

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



441 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Visits Black Church To Seek Votes Of Democrats 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., Sept. 15 

 BODY:
Making a rare campaign appearance at a predominantly black church, Gov. George E. Pataki today continued his drive to cut into traditional Democratic support with a spirited address that called for unity and promised to advocate for causes that blacks have championed.
 Mr. Pataki, speaking at Grace Baptist Church, one of the most influential in Westchester, said the terrorist attack demonstrated that New Yorkers are capable of uniting regardless of race or ethnicity. And on more practical terms, he reiterated his vow -- despite Democratic criticism that he has not followed through -- to reduce the prison population by relaxing drug laws that prescribe mandatory sentences for even minor offenses. 
 "The terrorists didn't say, 'We're going to hit the 89th floor because the white people are on the 89th floor and the black people are on the 90th floor and Latinos are down on the 78th floor,' " Mr. Pataki said, his voice rising. "They didn't care who they were attacking. They wanted to kill as many of us as possible because we're Americans."
Mr. Pataki even seemed willing to risk a bit of upstate support to rally the congregation. He criticized the building of a large number of prisons under the administration of his predecessor, Mario M. Cuomo, saying, "The strongest economic growth policy upstate was the building of prisons."
"It was a disgrace," Mr. Pataki said, adding that under his administration the prison population had declined. He described the Cuomo administration's attitude as: " 'We're going to bring jobs to rural upstate New York by building prisons, and you can have guards who are going to have jobs.' Who was going to those prisons? Lower-income, mostly minority kids from downstate because our criminal justice system allowed the violent people out on the street and put the nonviolent in."
The governor's visit was out of the playbook of many Democratic candidates, who regularly visit black churches on Sundays at election time as a way of increasing support among a key constituency.
But then Mr. Pataki, a Republican seeking a third term in an increasingly Democratic state, has sought to promote himself as if not a Democrat, someone who can break bread with one. The pastor of Grace Baptist Church, the Rev. W. Franklyn Richardson, is a Democrat who has endorsed Mr. Pataki and is appearing in a campaign television commercial for him.
Mr. Pataki's strategists have said that while they do not expect to win the black vote -- he received 11 percent in 1994 and 15 percent in '98 -- they do believe that they can lessen support for State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, the Democratic nominee, who is seeking to become the state's first black governor.
Mr. Pataki has met with black ministers, some of whom have worked with Mr. Pataki's aides to win state aid for economic development projects in their neighborhoods.
The Rev. DeVore Chapman of the Greater Bright Light Baptist Church in Brooklyn, whose church received a $1.8 million state grant in 1999 to build housing for low-income people, is serving as vice chairman of Democrats for Pataki. Perhaps Mr. Pataki's most high-profile supporter among black ministers is the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, whose Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem has worked with the governor on a number of economic development projects.
Mr. Richardson's congregation, working with Mount Vernon city officials, is seeking to develop a parcel across the street from the church. Details have not been worked out, but both Mr. Pataki and Mr. Richardson mentioned it today.
"We have not seen the specifics yet, but we expect they are going to be giving us a proposal," Mr. Pataki said as he left the service. "We're going to take a look, and see what we can do to make it happen."
Steven Greenberg, a spokesman for Mr. McCall, who did not campaign publicly today, said Mr. McCall enjoys widespread Democratic support, from blacks and others, "and a sizable number of Republicans and independents, too."
"George Pataki is going to try and fool voters, and he will not be successful because voters are smarter than George Pataki gives them credit for," Mr. Greenberg said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRISONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); DRUG POLICY (75%); SENTENCING (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (62%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (61%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (55%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRISONS AND PRISONERS 

ORGANIZATION: GRACE BAPTIST CHURCH (MOUNT VERNON, NY) 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; ROCKEFELLER, NELSON ALDRICH (1908-79); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; MOUNT VERNON (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



442 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Talks Open In Sri Lanka Today to End 19-Year War 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

DATELINE: SRINIGAR, Kashmir, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
The Sri Lankan government and the Tamil Tiger separatists will begin peace talks on Monday aimed at ending a 19-year civil war that has killed more than 60,000 people and laid waste to the country's economy.
 The Tigers have been fighting since 1983 for an ethnic Tamil homeland in the north and east of the majority Sinhalese country, which was formerly the British colony called Ceylon. The Tigers, who have dispatched some 200 suicide bombers during their long campaign, have been branded as terrorists by the United States, Britain and Canada. 
 The Sri Lankan government lifted a four-year ban on the Tigers earlier this month as a condition of the talks.
The talks, which will take place at a naval base in Sattahip, Thailand, 160 miles southeast of Bangkok, are the first in seven years. They are expected to continue for months, if not years. The initial three days of talks will attempt to set a schedule for meetings to come, and begin to focus on a redevelopment plan for the Tamil-dominated north, which has been devastated by the war. 
The global turn against terrorism after the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States put increased pressure on the Tigers to negotiate a settlement. The government, too, is under pressure. The war has driven away tourists and investors, and the country's economy shrank last year for the first time since independence in 1948.
In February, the government and rebels signed a Norwegian-brokered cease-fire that has held. Roads between government and rebel-held areas have been reopened, and last month officials agreed to allow unarmed members of the Tigers to move between rebel strongholds by boat.
Analysts say the longer the cease-fire holds, the better the chance of peace taking root, even aside from the progress of the peace talks. The latest International Monetary Fund report on the country predicted that an economy buoyed by the cease-fire would grow 3.5 to 4 percent by year's end. 
Previous peace talks, however, have ended in violence. The Sunday Observer, a Colombo-based newspaper, wrote today: "Expectations are not high. Sri Lankans have been through too much suffering and despair, too many initiatives and failures, too much rancor and deceit on all sides, to have any illusions about the difficulty of peacemaking."
The government has ruled out giving the Tigers a separate state, but has been willing to discuss much greater autonomy for Tamils within Sri Lanka's democratic framework.
But the peace effort has been complicated by the rancor between the country's prime minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, and its hard-line president, Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga. 
The clerics in the majority Buddhist country are also opposed to negotiating with separatist rebels representing the predominantly Hindu Tamils.
The country's Muslims, who have had a bitter history with the Tigers, do not have a representative at the talks. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A headine yesterday about peace talks to end Sri Lanka's civil war misstated their location. It is Thailand, not Sri Lanka. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); CIVIL WAR (90%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NAVIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); RELIGION (61%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); TOURISM (52%) CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (90%) TAMIL TIGERS 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) SRI LANKA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); THAILAND (79%); CANADA (79%) SRI LANKA

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



443 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Feels Pressure to Produce More Oil 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
With the United States pushing for action against Iraq and oil prices rising on fears of war in the Persian Gulf, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is being pressed to pump more oil to soothe jittery markets.
 But as the cartel prepares for its meeting in Osaka, Japan, on Thursday, members have indicated that OPEC will probably do nothing to rein in prices, which have risen 24 percent since mid-June and hover around $30 a barrel. The cartel has 11 members, but one, Iraq, is not allowed to vote because of United Nations sanctions. 
 OPEC is grappling with the same uncertainty about the global economy and intervention in Iraq as is the rest of the world. When the cartel has faced a cloudy picture in the past, it has chosen to wait and watch. Industry experts said they expected the same response this week. 
Moreover, these analysts said, just as the possibility of war in Iraq has driven oil prices higher, it also confines and complicates what OPEC can do to bring down prices. Saudi Arabia, which dominates the group and often gives in to Western pleas to moderate prices, is wary of how overtures to help the biggest oil consumers, especially the United States, would be viewed by the rest of the Muslim world, analysts said.
"The last thing the Saudis want with a crisis to the north of their border is a crisis within OPEC as well," said Mehdi Varzi, president of Varzi Energy, a consulting firm in London. "They wouldn't want to be seen to be openly helping the West when the Palestinians are still getting hit and an American invasion is brewing."
Arab allies of the United States appear to be softening their resistance to an attack against Iraq now that the Bush administration has appealed to the United Nations to enforce resolutions against Baghdad. 
Egypt's foreign minister, Ahmed Maher, said last week that his government would support an American strike against Iraq if it were approved by the United Nations. The Saudi foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, told CNN yesterday that if the United Nations approved attacks on Iraq, his country would permit its air bases to be used, a reversal of its earlier position. What is unclear is whether such flexibility will extend to increasing oil exports.
The reluctance to increase output stems in part from a conviction among most OPEC members that global markets have enough oil. OPEC members say they think that prices have been driven higher by anxiety over war and the possibility of disruptions of oil shipments from the Persian Gulf, not by the balance between supply and demand. 
"OPEC says, 'Prices may look like $30, but $2, $3, $4 of that may be hype and we don't raise production based on hype,' " said Vahan Zanoyan, the chief executive of the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting firm. "So how do you respond to a market that isn't based on fundamentals?" 
Analysts are divided about what OPEC should do, given the swarm of political and economic uncertainties. OPEC has reduced its output 3.5 million barrels since January, and is now producing 21.7 million barrels a day. Normally, prices as high as they have been this year -- on average about $25 a barrel -- are indicative of a healthy global economy. But several analysts said that this time, the prices are not a result of demand, but of supplies reduced by OPEC and by Iraq, which has taken most of its exports off the market because of disputes with the United Nations over sanctions. The higher prices, in turn, analysts said, may be slowing the economic recovery.
At this time of year, oil companies and refiners in Europe and the United States usually build reserves of crude oil ahead of the heating season. But stockpiles have been falling because few refiners are buying oil at high prices if there is chance they might fall shortly, "and the market is getting steadily tighter as we go into winter," said Leonidas P. Drollas, the chief economist at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London. 
Analysts like Mr. Drollas and Mr. Varzi say that OPEC should increase its output to damp prices and encourage the seasonal stockpiling of crude oil.
But other analysts say that OPEC might succeed in managing oil prices, even if the United States attacks Iraq, by continuing what its members are doing behind the scenes: egregiously pumping more than their official quotas. When prices are high, the temptation for OPEC members, whose economies rely almost exclusively on oil revenue, is to sell more barrels than they agreed to. Analysts estimated that the cartel is exceeding its quota by more than 2 million barrels a day. Members generally do not disclose their actual production figures, but all concede privately that overproduction has always been common. And the oil traders and companies are certainly aware of the higher production.
Mr. Zanoyan asserted that OPEC's overproduction has given it the flexibility to calm the market somewhat, mainly by making up for the supplies Iraq has rescinded. He and other analysts said that if prices continue to climb or Iraqi exports grind to a halt because of war, the cartel might step in, without any announcement, and pump enough oil to deflate high prices.
"There's plenty of spare capacity" within OPEC to produce more oil, said Gary N. Ross, chief executive of the PIRA Energy Group, a consulting firm. "They're cheating this much. They will just cheat some more."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prince Saud al-Faisal, the foreign minister of Saudi Arabia. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CARTELS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%); TERRORISM (63%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); UNITED NATIONS (57%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); OSAKA, JAPAN (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); GULF STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



444 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Safety Problems at Japanese Reactors Begin to Erode Public's Faith in Nuclear Power 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
The reports of safety lapses, fraudulent repairs and cover-ups at Japan's largest nuclear power company began with a trickle but have resounded into an industry nightmare.
 The details, filled in over the last two weeks by one alarming report after another, show a potentially catastrophic pattern of cost-cutting along with 16 years of cover-ups of serious flaws, apparently in an effort to preserve public trust. The pattern includes the systematic falsification of inspection and repair records at 13 reactors at the company, Tokyo Electric, the world's largest private electrical utility. 
 Compounding the public relations disaster, a reactor that the company operates in Fukushima Prefecture, in northern Japan, was closed temporarily last week because a chimney was emitting more than 100 times the usual level of radiation.
In accordance with the ritualized apologies that Japanese business culture demands, the president of Tokyo Electric, Nobuya Minami, and four other senior officials resigned. But many Japanese are talking about a far larger casualty, the rock-solid consensus behind nuclear energy that has existed here for decades, and which has made Japan's industry the world's third-largest, behind the United States and France, and perhaps its most ambitious. 
Even senior members of the government have expressed their outrage over the scandal. "It is absolutely abominable that this incident caused the people's confidence to be largely lost in nuclear energy," said Takeo Hiranuma, the industry minister. Statements like his are almost unheard; for decades the government has been an almost unconditional backer of nuclear power.
But a groundswell has been building against nuclear power here for at least three years. It began when cost-cutting and sloppy work led to a fission chain-reaction at a uranium-processing plant in Tokaimura, 70 miles northeast of Tokyo, in 1999. The anger gained momentum last year after investigators discovered that radioactive coolant water had been leaking, undetected, from cracks in the aging reactor vessel in Hamaoka for at least four months.
The Tokaimura incident was Japan's worst nuclear-related accident. Two people were killed, thousands of people were exposed to at least moderate levels of radiation and the town center had to be temporarily evacuated during a cleanup. Company officials have said they were worried that if the public became aware of cracking at the reactors, people would be frightened. Today, it was learned that the government gave Tokyo Electric the name of the whistle-blower who reported the cracking to the company, in a further effort to keep things quiet.
The Tokaimura accident shocked the nation, and critics of the nuclear industry now say the government's condemnations of safety lapses and fraud may be too little too late.
Since Tokaimura, local communities have voted in referendums to block new plants, and in other cases mayors and governors have promised to do so. That has galvanized action against the nuclear power industry as never before.
"At first, people had no other choice but to trust the government, because this is such important technology," Eisaku Sato, the governor of Fukushima Prefecture, where some of the troubled Tokyo Electric plants are located, said Wednesday. "Then this incident occurred, and the trust between us, which was never more than a thin red thread, was completely cut off."
Just one day earlier, Masazumi Nishikawa, the mayor of Kashiwazaki City, in Niigata Prefecture, told Tokyo Electric to cancel its plans to introduce a plutonium fuel into a conventional local reactor which was designed to burn uranium. The prefectural governor, Ikuo Hirayama, has seconded the mayor's moves.
Antinuclear activists say they can now foresee a day when Japan joins countries like Germany and Belgium in banning new nuclear plant construction. Plant construction in the United States has long been frozen though not banned.
"This kind of scandal, where there have been cover-ups for 10 years, causes a fatal doubt of government policy on nuclear energy," said Kiyoshi Sakurai, an industry critic and a physicist. "We will end up like Americans and some European countries, turning away from nuclear energy."
Nuclear-generated electricity has been the bedrock of Japan's energy policy since the oil shocks of the 1970's, which hit Japan far worse than the United States, considering that Japan was a manufacturing economy without local supplies of oil.
The country embarked on a crash program to build dozens of nuclear power plants. But it also poured tens of billions of dollars into the development of plutonium-burning reactors, known as fast breeder reactors; their technology, though unproven, theoretically would produce more nuclear fuel than they burn.
The United States abandoned similar plans during the Ford administration, citing safety concerns, and since then, international nuclear energy experts and antinuclear activists in Japan have raised a host of other objections, from infeasibility to the terror-related risks of shipping vast stocks of plutonium internationally and around Japan.
But the Japanese government has continued to spend heavily on developing plutonium-based reactors, even despite a sodium leak and a fire at its prototype fast-breeder reactor at Monju in 1992.
"There is a single-minded commitment to nuclear power," said Edwin Lyman, president of the Nuclear Control Institute, an independent group in Washington doing research on nuclear nonproliferation. "The government clearly sees promoting nuclear power as its policy, because the bureaucrats absolutely believe that this is the key to their energy future for the next 200 years."
The biggest liabilities faced by Japan's huge nuclear power industry are not the technologies of the future, but an accident-plagued present in which embarrassing failures in aging reactors have become disturbingly commonplace.
The most frightening revelation in the unfolding Tokyo Power scandal has been that falsified inspection records had papered over large cracks in the stainless steel shrouds that cover the core of nuclear plants, allowing the reactors to operate for years without costly repairs.
For many, this recalled an explosion at a nuclear plant operated by the Nagoya-based Chubu Electric Power Company, at Hamaoka, last November. The investigation there revealed the radioactive leaks.
The Hamaoka plant began operating in 1976, and antinuclear activists in Japan have seized upon incidents like the one last year as evidence that many of Japan's 53 nuclear reactors, operating well into their third decade, are aging and a safety risk.
Aging has emerged as a major concern in the United States, too, particularly since the discovery in March of a hole in the top of the reactor vessel at the Davis-Besse reactor, near Toledo, Ohio. Unforeseen corrosion by boric acid has nearly eaten through the six-inch thick steel vessel that contains the reactor's core, and American investigators are also looking into whether inspection or repair records at the plant have been falsified.
In an interview before the Tokyo Power scandals, Shojiro Masuura, chairman of Japans Nuclear Safety Commission, denied that aging of nuclear plants was a problem. "In Japan there is no relationship between accidents and aging," he said. Regarding the Hamaoka leaks, he added, "the reactors fractures don't really relate to aging at all."
American nuclear energy experts have expressed astonishment at that line of thinking. "Something has happened to the Japanese, and it doesn't look good," said Victor Galinsky, a former member of the Nuclear Regulator Commission. "I just can't imagine that any engineer, technical person or technical bureaucrat can deny that aging is a problem."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese investigators found leaking radioactive coolant water last year at the Hamaoka nuclear plant. (Toru Morimoto for The New York Times) Chart: "ADDING IT UP -- Powering Japan"Nuclear power has increased as a share of all the energy generated in Japan. Graph shows increase in nuclear power use in Japan from 1970 through 2001. (Source: Natural Resources and Energy Agency, Japan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); MAYORS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ETHICS (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); CLOSINGS (69%); REFERENDUMS (60%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS; ATOMIC ENERGY 

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO 

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (76%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



445 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Mugabe's Visit Has Council Speechless

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
A DAY after New York City mourned the thousands killed by devotees of despotism, some City Council members threw open the doors of City Hall to a world leader accused of repression, violations of human rights, homophobia and violence.
 Robert Mugabe, president of Zimbabwe, was invited into City Hall by Councilman Charles Barron of Brooklyn last week, and greeted by about a dozen Council members, most members of the Black and Hispanic Caucus. He was given a reception and then spoke at length in the City Council chamber. Imagine the propaganda value back home of being welcomed by the legislature of New York City (never mind the fine print). 
 Mr. Barron, a former Black Panther, makes no apologies. He is still, in fact, planning on visiting Zimbabwe later this month with about a dozen colleagues, to do "fact-finding" -- at the expense of the Mugabe government.
Gifford Miller, the Council speaker, said he let Mr. Barron use a conference room in deference to free speech, but stayed away. So did most of the Council's 51 members, but few have criticized Mr. Barron, and none have voiced moral outrage.
The speaker said he was staying away because of "deeply troubling" reports of human rights violations in Zimbabwe, but was allowing Mr. Barron to proceed because quashing free speech is "a terrible mistake." That it is. The best response to offensive speech is more speech. The Mugabe visit produced less speech.
"I wouldn't say I was pulling punches," Mr. Miller said. What about the coming trip to Zimbabwe? "It's difficult to criticize my colleagues for their action," he said. In blatant plays for voter affection, politicians from diverse New York traditionally visit various locales, including Puerto Rico, Ireland, the Dominican Republic and, of course, Israel; Mr. Miller led a delegation to Israel recently.
The difference (or at least one difference): the appropriateness of those trips is always open to debate. The never-subtle Mr. Barron acts as though merely raising questions about his pending visit is discriminatory: "Did you ask about Israel? Now you are writing it, in the context of our issue. This Council deals with international issues. This City Council went to Vieques, to Ireland. The mayor went to the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico. It's just that we are doing it now -- going to African nations."
Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have issued reports about the Mugabe regime, citing torture and detention, repression of judicial independence and journalistic freedom, the intimidation of political opponents. The Mugabe policy of seizing white-owned land has, say critics, been violent and disastrous, hurting the economy, contributing to starvation.
"Amnesty International holds President Mugabe and his government responsible for the attacks against opposition politicians, against members of civilian society, against African farm workers and for creating an environment of fear and intimidation," said Adotei Akwei, Africa advocacy director of Amnesty International U.S.A. "People have been detained and tortured. In the country now, literally, no one's safety and security is guaranteed if there is even the slightest doubt of support for President Mugabe."
Mr. Barron said he read the reports about human rights abuses. "I don't reject or accept them." He will, he said, find out for himself on his "fact-finding mission." He and his delegation plan to leave on Sept. 28, unless discouraged by Washington.
MR. BARRON'S colleagues say he is a nice person. Few -- even those offended by the Mugabe visit -- will criticize the councilman publicly, saying they fear he'll find a way to register his displeasure.
A good bet. Since joining the Council in January, Mr. Barron has drawn attention for registering displeasure. He's called for replacing City Hall portraits of white historical figures with black icons; called Jefferson a "pedophile" and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg a "racist" for saying that minority parents who opposed mayoral control of the schools didn't understand the weakness of public education; at a rally for slave reparations, Mr. Barron said that sometimes, he wants to go up to a white person, say, " 'You can't understand this, it's a black thing,' and then slap him just for my mental health."
Don't take him literally, he said later. Of course he isn't going around slapping anybody. But Mr. Barron gave the men and women of Zimbabwe the back of his hand. The same might be said of New York's willfully silent City Council. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); POLITICS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (86%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); RACE & RACISM (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (70%); FARM LABOR (50%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%) AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES); MILLER, A GIFFORD (COUNCIL SPEAKER); BARRON, CHARLES (COUNCILMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) ZIMBABWE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); PUERTO RICO (92%); AFRICA (79%) ZIMBABWE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



446 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Paying People to Work, but Not Enough to Live 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Barbara Ehrenreich, in her book "Nickel and Dimed," showed how difficult it is for a worker in the United States to survive on wages of $6 to $7 an hour. It's almost impossible. And if that worker has a family to support, forget about it. Which is why so many low-wage workers are toiling away at two jobs, or three, or even more.
 The plight of the American worker is easily overlooked when the nation is grappling with the threat of international terrorism and the possibility of war with Iraq. But ignoring the economic pressures faced by millions of struggling families carries its own long-term consequences. 
 It is wrong, in a land of plenty, to ask people to work full time for pay that is not enough to feed, clothe and house them. And yet we do it all the time. The minimum wage is a meager $5.15 an hour. And, according to the Economic Policy Institute, 14 million people are working for $7 an hour or less.
This national problem of grossly underpaid workers is at the heart of a labor struggle currently under way in New York City. The powerful health-care workers' union, which has the unwieldy title 1199/S.E.I.U., has called the nation's first strike by home health aides.
"These are among the lowest paid workers in New York State," said Dennis Rivera, the union's president. "They take care of the people who are dying, or are too infirm to feed themselves. But they're so impoverished they can't provide for their own families."
The home health aides, nearly all of them women, usually earn $6 or $7 an hour. In most cases they receive no benefits -- no health care, no paid vacation, no sick days, no pensions. Mr. Rivera's union, which has recruited more than 15,000 home health aides in the city, has called a strike for Wednesday -- the day after tomorrow -- against Premier Home Health Care Services. Premier is a licensed agency that employs about 3,500 home health aides.
One of the odd things about this dispute is that Arthur Schwabe, the president of Premier, is just as quick and vehement as the union in asserting that the workers are not being paid what they're worth.
"It's horrible the way these folks are treated," said Mr. Schwabe, a subcontractor who pays the workers approximately $6.50 an hour and is reimbursed at a rate of approximately $11 an hour.
He said he would love to pay the workers more. "Why wouldn't I want to pay a person more money and benefits?" he said. "I'd have better retention and I'd have a better work force, a happier work force."
He would pay more, he said, if only the market would let him. But he concluded, "I think in order to be competitive in the marketplace our pricing needs to reflect what other licensed agencies charge."
Mr. Schwabe, who makes a handsome living sending the health care aides into the homes of the sick and the infirm, has come up with a proposal that would pit one group of impoverished workers against another.
He noted that in January Gov. George Pataki and the State Legislature approved funding for raises for the state's personal care workers, a group that does similar tasks but is separate from the home health aides who work for private agencies. The personal care workers are also represented by 1199.
Mr. Schwabe said the best way to give raises to the home health aides would be to give them some of the money that is supposed to go to the personal care workers.
How likely is that? There is more of a chance that the sun will come up in the west tomorrow. But even if it could happen, it shouldn't. The personal care workers make about $7.25 an hour, and their raise in the first year would only be 50 cents to 75 cents an hour.
Mr. Schwabe would dilute that very modest increase by spreading the money to thousands of additional workers, giving tiny raises -- raises so small they would effectively be worthless -- to everybody.
"It's true," he said, "that I would like to see the funds distributed equally amongst all the workers."
In "Nickel and Dimed," Ms. Ehrenreich said that "employers resist wage increases with every trick they can think of and every ounce of strength they can summon."
As Wednesday's strike deadline nears, Mr. Schwabe -- who admits that his workers are underpaid -- is doing his heroic best to further that venerable tradition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); SICK LEAVE (62%); TERRORISM (55%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; HOME HEALTH CARE 

COMPANY: PREMIER HOME HEALTHCARE SERVICES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%) PREMIER HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES; SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; SCHWABE, ARTHUR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



447 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: As Companies Scatter, Doubts on Return of Financial District 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
One year after the attack on the World Trade Center, New York City's financial district is still shrinking, raising serious questions about plans for rebuilding Lower Manhattan.
 In decades past, the district has bounced back from recessions and catastrophic fires as the investment banks and insurance companies that dominated Lower Manhattan resumed hiring, touching off a boom at the law and accounting firms that serve them, as well as at the local delis, shoe-repair shops and printers. 
 But current trends militate against future growth in financial services downtown, or even in New York City, according to a range of people who have knowledge of the district. Aside from the physical loss of office space dedicated to such businesses and corporate layoffs resulting from the economic downturn, new factors are coming into play.
For one thing, a white paper from federal and state regulators on Aug. 30 recommends that major banks and securities firms move at least part of their operations, ensuring that there is "sufficient out-of-region staff, equipment and data" to quickly resume operation in case of a disaster. There is debate over how far away is far enough, with suggestions of 5 miles to 100 miles. 
Some companies have already moved some of their operations as part of their strategic planning, said Paul Honey, the first vice president for global contingency planning at Merrill Lynch. The regulators' recommendations are at the forefront of every firm's planning decisions.
The dispersal of financial services workers throughout the region affects some of the assumptions at the heart of the state and city efforts to revitalize Lower Manhattan. On the one hand, financial services play an enormous role in the state and city's economies. But if major firms are encouraged to move part of their operations, who will occupy the acres of office space that are currently vacant, not to mention any skyscrapers that would be built on the trade center site?
"The future of the downtown economy has to be based on greater diversity," said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce. "We have had an overdependence on the financial industry that has to change over the next few years, or we're going to be in real trouble."
The Bank of New York is keeping its downtown headquarters, but it will move 1,500 employees to Brooklyn, while Morgan Stanley is moving a similar number about 30 miles north to Westchester County. Goldman Sachs will move several thousand people to Jersey City, and Marsh & McLennan is moving 1,100 to Hoboken, N.J. The American Insurance Group, one of the largest employers downtown, is hunting for space for 2,000 people in New Jersey, according to real estate brokers. Even the New York Stock Exchange is publicly talking about moving half of its trading operations to a back-up site, possibly in Westchester.
"I think you're going to see more and more dispersion as time goes on," said Joe Anastasio, chairman of Capco North America, consultants to the financial services industry. "For financial services, it'll never be bigger downtown than it is today."
The implications for Lower Manhattan are considerable. Mary Ann Tighe, president of CB Richard Ellis, a real estate company, suggested that the "repopulation" of downtown may start with companies with thinner profit margins, like nonprofits, business services, advertising agencies, new media companies and other firms attracted by the rents, which are about half the rates in Midtown.
Such companies would generally seek smaller office buildings than the skyscrapers with broad, column-free floors favored by investment banks. The six original proposals for redevelopment, which were panned by the public, all call for 11 million square feet of space in skyscrapers.
Ms. Wylde and the Alliance for Downtown New York also contend that the city and the state have to stabilize the financial industry downtown. The securities industry lost 18,000 jobs in New York City over the last year, most of them downtown, according to the Securities Industry Association, a trade group. For some time, Lower Manhattan has been losing finance jobs to Midtown, and more recently to Jersey City. At one time, well over half of the city's finance and insurance industry employment was in Lower Manhattan, but downtown's share fell to below half, a Midtown's rose above half, for the first time in the late 1990's.
One of the gloomiest forecasts, from David Shulman, a real estate analyst at Lehman Brothers, predicts that there will be 30,000 more layoffs in the securities industry in New York in the next year, a number that could cascade to 100,000 when the slowdown reverberates. 
Frank A. Fernandez, chief economist for the Securities Industry Association, said he doubted that the layoffs would be anywhere near that severe. But, both he and Mr. Shulman said, New York should not expect a burst of hiring on Wall Street when the economy improves.
"Even though New York commands a quarter of the national securities work force, only 6 percent of the job growth has occurred here in the last 15 years," Mr. Fernandez said. "And virtually none of the employment growth occurred in Lower Manhattan."
To retain and lure companies downtown after the trade center attack, state and city officials offered cash grants to 145 companies, hotels and educational institutions with more than 200 employees. But they have found only 40 takers for a total of $128 million in federal funds, according to the Empire State Development Corporation. Critics say that few, if any, of the companies were likely to leave. One business, Standard & Poor's, got $4.4 million, on top of the $34.5 million in tax breaks it received in 1997 to move downtown. 
So far no major company has been lured downtown by the grants and tax breaks, in part because many companies and employees remain concerned about transportation problems and emotional reactions to ground zero. Recently, state and city officials offered the accounting firm KPMG up to $30 million in cash and tax breaks to move to the World Financial Center from Midtown. But despite the lower rents, it now appears that the company will stay put. 
"It shows that even that amount of money won't move them downtown," said one frustrated government negotiator. "That tells you something."
Downtown landlords and public officials are pinning their hopes on HIP, the health insurer that is considering moving its headquarters and 1,500 people downtown. 
The New York Stock Exchange's plans are also a major point of discussion. After threatening to move to New Jersey four years ago, Richard A. Grasso, chairman of the stock exchange, obtained a $1 billion subsidy from former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani for a new trading complex across the street from its home on Wall Street. But the deal collapsed after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg told Mr. Grasso that the city could ill afford it. In July, Mr. Grasso told officials he wanted to build a second active trading complex in Westchester or Queens that would handle half the trading volume. Analysts say it is possible but very expensive to run two trading floors, and they wonder whether Mr. Grasso is bargaining to get more money from the city.
The recent white paper urges that critical clearing and settlement organizations, as well as the 15 to 20 major banks and 5 to 10 major securities firms, establish out-of-region back-up sites within a year. There is no recommendation that companies move their headquarters. 
The Securities Industry Association does not expect the regulators to specify a distance between a company's headquarters and back-up operations when the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve and the Comptroller of the Currency issue formal recommendations this year. The critical test, they say, will be whether the two are operating in separate power grids and different telecommunication systems.
James A. Parrott, deputy director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, said the city should not use scarce resources to deter the exchange's move. It is more important, he said, to invest in job training and rebuilding the downtown transportation system. 
"If the post-9/11 world compels them to decentralize, then subsidies can't stop the relocations," Mr. Parrott said. "If location imperatives haven't changed, then the subsidies aren't needed. Investments should be made in the infrastructure and in diversifying the economy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); BONDS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); SHOE & LEATHER REPAIR (71%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (58%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MMC (NYSE) (58%); MHM (LSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%)

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



448 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1798 words

HEADLINE: Shelters Seek to Oust Families Who Keep Rejecting Housing 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
Sara Kelly, a lively, articulate mother of six, was explaining why she and her family have stayed in a homeless shelter for more than a year instead of moving to an apartment.
 It's hard to find a three-bedroom apartment she can afford. Landlords don't like single mothers, teenage boys and homeless people, and they lie about making repairs. She does not want a neighborhood that is "druggy." She must live near a hospital because two of her children have asthma. 
 "I am choosy about where I live," said Ms. Kelly, who is unemployed and on public assistance, but studying to be a home health-care worker. "When you have kids, you have to look out for all sorts of things." 
It may seem strange that a homeless person would describe herself as choosy about where she will live, but in New York City, which is under court order to provide free temporary shelter to all those who say they have no place to live, families in the shelter system can refuse available permanent housing with little penalty.
Now, as part of a larger effort to move families out of the system faster, the Bloomberg administration would like to make changes. It has decided to pursue a policy, begun by Rudolph W. Giuliani when he was mayor, that would allow the city to eject families who repeatedly refuse to take apartments that meet government standards.
New York is under strong fiscal pressure to change its shelter system, which currently houses a record 8,696 families, an increase of roughly 33 percent from September 2001. Each family costs the city about $2,800 a month. If the number of families in the system continues to grow at the present rate, the city will exceed its emergency shelter budget for the current fiscal year by $27 million, according to an analysis released last week by the Independent Budget Office.
The Department of Homeless Services does not collect data on how many apartments families turn down before leaving the system, but its research shows that the average length of time a homeless family spends in what is supposed to be emergency shelter has grown to 315 days, from 285 days in September 2000.
To further support its case, the administration for the first time released its figures on the housing search process. They showed that this July, families in the system looked at an average of 1.34 apartments each. The city would like each family to see at least 8 residences a month.
The city also arranged for a reporter to talk to housing specialists from five of the city's shelters. The specialists, shelter workers who function mainly as real-estate agents, work directly with families to look for and visit apartments. They estimated that 50 to 75 percent of their clients were unreasonably picky.
"They don't want to live in Bushwick or Crown Heights," said one specialist, who insisted on anonymity. "They want to live in Park Slope or Midtown Manhattan."
Before the end of the month, the city hopes to ask a court to allow officials to remove such families from the shelter system for 30 days and place their children in government-supervised care.
The city's commissioner of homeless services, Linda I. Gibbs, is adamant that hers is a kinder, gentler version of the Giuliani proposal, which has been blocked by a ruling in State Supreme Court in Manhattan since January 2000.
The most controversial part of the Giuliani plan was a provision that would allow officials from the foster care division of the Administration for Children's Services to investigate any family that was evicted from the shelter system with no place to go. 
Under the Bloomberg administration plan, such families would have the option of temporarily placing children in respite care, which is run by a different division of the children's service agency and does not involve an automatic investigation into possible abuse or neglect, as foster care does.
In addition, Ms. Gibbs said in an interview, although state regulations allow the city to start eviction proceedings after a family turns down just one suitable apartment, she would rely on shelter operators to say when a family had turned down an unreasonable number of apartments.
There would be at least four levels of appeal before such an eviction would take place, Ms. Gibbs said, adding that she did not expect any family to actually be ejected.
Still, she said, the city needs the eviction option to make homeless families and the government workers who serve them understand that inaction has consequences. "There is a culture of passivity," she said, "and we need everyone in the system to act with more urgency."
Advocates for the homeless say there are far too few suitable apartments at rents that low-income families can afford. They argue that eviction is inhumane.
"Dangling the threat of eviction over the heads of homeless clients will not cause them to change their behavior," officials from a coalition of nonprofit groups that contract with the city to provide shelter for families argued in a statement opposing the policy. 
Steven Banks, the associate attorney in chief for the Legal Aid Society, which represents homeless families in litigation against the city, says that when his group studied the 100 families who had been in the shelter system the longest, it found that bureaucratic mistakes by the city, rather than the indolence or intransigence of those families, were responsible for their lengthy stays.
"It is a culture of bureaucratic ineptitude that is trapping hundreds of families in the system," Mr. Banks said. He criticized the Bloomberg administration for taking the "most extreme action" rather than considering milder penalities, like requiring families to leave their shelter apartment and re-enter the system at the starting point, the overcrowded Emergency Assistance Unit.
Ms. Gibbs does not deny that the city makes errors in moving families through the system, but she says she has doubled the number of workers who deal with housing applications in six months.
She also said that while a lack of housing was part of the problem, families also linger in the system because there are no consequences if they turn down housing in the hope of being offered something better.
Housing specialists working for the city's shelters said that on average clients turn down at least the first 10 apartments they see. Sometimes they cite problems like too much drug activity in a neighborhood, but other times they may not like a certain feature, like wall-to-wall carpeting in the bedrooms, preferring wood instead.
One thing contributing to many families' lengthy stays in the system, they said, is the wealth of services offered -- the same services that were intended to prepare a family to leave emergency housing and live on its own.
In the 1980's, the city was widely faulted for paying large sums of money to place homeless families in notorious welfare hotels with no support services at all. Now, the housing specialists say, shelter residences, most of which are run by nonprofit community groups, are more attractive than market-rate housing that low-income people can afford.
A typical shelter apartment for a family of four may not have more than two rooms but it usually comes with staffing and services like infant care, day care, employment workshops and medical clinics. 
Ms. Kelly, for example, was interviewed at a shelter run by HELP USA, a nonprofit organization, in Crotona Park, a working-class neighborhood in the Bronx. The shelter was behind a locked gate and also had a desk with security guards at the entrance to the building, a lush grass- and tree-lined courtyard with two playgrounds and a fountain for children to cool off during hot weather.
The shelter's executive director, Fred Shack, opposes the city's eviction plan, and his staff members selected the residents to be interviewed.
Ms. Kelly said she was determined to leave the system. Her son Quency, 7, called their shelter apartment "nasty" and said it had mice and roaches.
Ms. Kelly said that she searched for housing every day, frequently traveling to Brooklyn and Queens to follow up on listings of apartments whose landlords would accept the government housing vouchers for which she was approved. Families who are approved under the Section 8 system get a rent voucher that is determined by the size of the family, and is paid directly to the landlord the family chooses. The landlord has to be approved by the Section 8 system, and there are limits on the rent he can charge.
She insisted that most of the problem was, as the advocates say, a lack of supply. "Three bedrooms are very, very hard to find," she said. And since she has been approved for a three-bedroom apartment, she is not willing to consider anything smaller, and under the rules she would not be allowed to take less than a two-bedroom, anyway.
Like many families who have been approved to receive subsidies for private housing in New York, Ms. Kelly has a wealth of complaints about landlords. She said some turned her down because they did not want her children or did not want her, a single woman, because they feared she would bring men to the apartment.
She says landlords promise that apartments are available when they are not or when they are going to give them to another family, particularly a family with more children, which would allow them to collect a larger voucher.
Before coming to the shelter system, Ms. Kelly said, she lived for seven years in a Section 8 apartment on Andrews Avenue in the Bronx. The building eventually had so many violations that the government stopped paying rent to the landlord and eventually Ms. Kelly was evicted, she said.
She said she did not want a repetition of that experience and so turns down any apartment she sees with electrical or plumbing code violations, even if the landlord promises to fix them. 
In a city where working families struggle to afford one-bedroom apartments and immigrants often cram eight relatives into a basement, homeless advocates and city officials struggle to resolve how best to balance the desire by Ms. Kelly and hundreds of other people in the city's shelter system to keep their families safe and reasonably comfortable against the need to move them into cost-efficient housing that meets government standards.
Ms. Kelly said she had turned down only one three-bedroom apartment that was up to code, because, she said, it was tiny and poorly laid out. "You had to walk through one bedroom to get to another bedroom to get to a bathroom," she recalled, "I can't live like that."
She also said she would not consider apartments run by the New York City Housing Authority, which is a major source of apartments for homeless families, because she had heard bad things about living in housing projects. "There is just too much confusion in there," she said, "and too much drugs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sara Kelly, a mother of six, said, "I am choosy about where I live." (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (92%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); HEALTH CARE (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); ASTHMA (55%) HOMELESS PERSONS; HOUSING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT BUDGET OFFICE (NYC); DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (52%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%); RICK PERRY (50%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



449 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: Invading Iraq, And Other Options 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 If Milton Viorst ("The Wisdom of Imagining the Worst-Case Scenario," Op-Ed, Sept. 12) is accurate in his worst-case projections, the consequences are indeed horrifying to contemplate. 
 Surely, at the beginning of the 21st century, with all the think tanks and their highly sophisticated political scientists and economists at the disposal of the United States, President Bush could come up with a solution to contain Saddam Hussein that doesn't risk Armageddon.

JDITH NATKINS
Jackson Heights, Queens
Sept. 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (53%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%) NATKINS, JUDITH; VIORST, MILTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



450 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Reform and National Security 

BYLINE:  By Tamar Jacoby; Tamar Jacoby is a senior fellow at The Manhattan Institute.

 BODY:
Just over a year ago, President Vicente Fox of Mexico visited Washington to press forward with a deal he and President Bush were hatching on immigration reform. Today, that deal is all but dead.
 Yet the problems of immigration policy cannot be put on hold forever. The nation needs to think again about the changes under consideration a year ago: a package of reforms that would have increased the number of visas for Mexican workers and legalized the status of many of the undocumented migrants already here in the United States. 
 That plan may sound unwise today -- after all, many Americans are more suspicious now than ever of new immigrants. But the truth is, a more liberal immigration policy is not antithetical to greater security. On the contrary, creating legal channels for migrant workers and registering the millions already here offers the best hope for homing in on the few foreigners who have indeed come to this country to do us harm. 
In the past 12 months, Congress and the administration have implemented dozens of measures aimed at getting more control of the borders and the foreigners living in this country. 
The most important is the border security bill that was approved by Congress in May. Recognizing that it's possible to distinguish terrorists from immigrants, the new law mandates better intelligence gathering and information sharing among government agencies. Most critically, it provides for a layered screening system that uses technology and linked databases to identify those with criminal or terrorist ties before they enter the United States.
Other measures enacted in the past year look sensible on paper but, given the size of the immigrant population, may be all but impossible to implement. It makes sense in theory, for example, to track whether those who come here as students are actually studying. It sounds reasonable in the abstract to check that all those who enter the country on temporary visas leave when they say they will, to ask that noncitizens report to the government when they change their addresses and to make sure that aliens without proper papers do not get driver's licenses. It's also hard to see what's wrong with the federal government enlisting local police departments to enforce immigration law.
The problem is that the Immigration and Naturalization Service can't hope to follow through on many of these measures. (Imagine it trying to process change-of-address cards from the millions of foreign-born people who move each year, for example.) Not only do several of these initiatives place undue burdens on hardworking, law-abiding immigrants, but if they were enforced across the board all would run aground among the vast illegal population -- an estimated eight million people -- who would only clog the enforcement process, draining precious resources that ought to be directed at tracking down terrorists. 
What's the solution to this dilemma? The quick and dirty answer is profiling: for example, rather than asking that every foreigner who enters the country be registered, fingerprinted and required to report regularly to authorities, we could apply the law only to those from terror-sponsoring nations like Iraq and Syria. (In fact, that's more or less the compromise the Justice Department began implementing last week.)
There's an argument that can be made for this kind of discretionary approach -- after all, most immigrants, including the millions who are illegal, pose no threat. But surely, rather than implement the law selectively, it would be preferable to reduce the number of foreigners living here illicitly. And since we can't send them home -- most are doing jobs essential to the economy -- it only makes sense to bring them in out of the shadows with some sort of legalization or regularization process. 
Not only would legalization eliminate a vast population of second-class noncitizens -- the existence of such a population is an affront to our democratic values -- it would also allow us to identify and keep track of these millions of undocumented immigrants without resort to law enforcement. It would help reduce the market for forged documents -- Social Security cards, driver's licenses and the like -- that make deceit so easy for would-be terrorists. And it would increase the chances that foreign-born workers would cooperate with local police, contributing to the fight against America's enemies. 
Even in the safest of times, surely there is cause for concern when millions of well-intentioned people are forced by a bad law to view authorities with suspicion and to regard breaking the law as the accepted norm. In times like these, it is arguably suicidal.
The changes Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox discussed last year would address this problem and create a legal path for future migrants who will be needed when the economy improves. But in the past 12 months, the administration has largely lost sight of these goals. Though the president and his spokesmen still pay lip service to immigration reform, the administration has done little to move a plan forward and negotiations with Mexico are all but stalled. 
Reorganization of the I.N.S. -- essentially a bureaucratic reshuffling -- is not the answer. Nor can Democrats hope to steal this issue from Republicans -- this has to be a bipartisan effort. A year after Sept. 11, the country needs a realistic immigration policy that can be realistically enforced. Last year, President Bush seemed ready to lead the way. He should make it a priority now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); HIJACKING (70%); FINGERPRINTING (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); APPROVALS (67%); POLICE FORCES (60%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; FOREIGN LABOR; ILLEGAL ALIENS; FINGERPRINTING 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (73%) JACOBY, TAMAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002 



451 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2130 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTIST AT WORK/Steven Pinker; 
In Nature vs. Nurture, a Voice for Nature

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS WADE 

 BODY:
Who should define human nature? When the biologist Edward O. Wilson set out to do so in his 1975 book "Sociobiology," he was assailed by left-wing colleagues who portrayed his description of genetically shaped human behaviors as a threat to the political principles of equal rights and a just society.
 Since then, a storm has threatened anyone who prominently asserts that politically sensitive aspects of human nature might be molded by the genes. So biologists, despite their increasing knowledge from the decoding of the human genome and other advances, are still distinctly reluctant to challenge the notion that human behavior is largely shaped by environment and culture. The role of genes in shaping differences between individuals or sexes or races has become a matter of touchiness, even taboo. 
 A determined effort to break this silence and make it safer for biologists to discuss what they know about the genetics of human nature has now been begun by Dr. Steven Pinker, a psychologist of language at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In a book being published by Viking at the end of this month, "The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature," he seeks to create greater political elbow room for those engaged in the study of the ways genes shape human behavior. "If I am an advocate, it is for discoveries about human nature that have been ignored or suppressed in modern discussions of human affairs," he writes. 
A principal theme of Dr. Pinker's argument is that the blank slaters -- the critics of sociobiology and their many adherents in the social sciences -- have sought to base the political ideals of equal rights and equal opportunity on a false biological premise: that all human minds are equal because they are equally blank, equally free of innate, genetically shaped, abilities and behaviors. 
The politics and the science must be disentangled, Dr. Pinker argues. Equal rights and equal opportunities are moral principles, he says, not empirical hypotheses about human nature, and they do not require a biological justification, especially not a false one. 
Moreover, the blank slate doctrine has political consequences that have been far from benign, in Dr. Pinker's view. It encourages totalitarian regimes to excesses of social engineering. It perverts education and child-rearing, loading unmerited guilt on parents for their children's failures.
In his book he reproaches those who in his view have politicized the study of human nature from both the left and the right, though in practice more of his fire is directed against the left, particularly the critics of sociobiology. They have created a climate in which "discoveries about human nature were greeted with fear and loathing because they were thought to threaten progressive ideals," he writes.
He accuses two of them -- Dr. Richard Lewontin, a population geneticist at Harvard, and the late Dr. Stephen J. Gould, a historian of science -- of "25 years of pointless attacks" on Dr. Wilson and on Dr. Richard Dawkins, author of "The Selfish Gene," for allegedly saying certain aspects of behavior are genetically determined.
And he chides the sociobiology critics for turning a scholarly debate "into harassment, slurs, misrepresentation, doctored quotations, and, most recently, blood libel." In a recent case, two anthropologists accused Dr. James Neel, a founder of modern human genetics, and Dr. Napoleon Chagnon, a social anthropologist, of killing the Yanomamo people of Brazil to test genetic theories of human behavior, a charge Dr. Pinker analyzes as without basis in fact. 
With this preemptive strike in place, Dr. Pinker sets out his view of what science can now say about human nature. This includes many of the ideas laid out by Dr. Wilson in "Sociobiology" and "On Human Nature," updated by recent work in evolutionary psychology and other fields. 
Dr. Pinker argues that significant innate behavioral differences exist between individuals and between men and women. Discussing child-rearing, he says that children's characters are shaped by their genes, by their peer group and by chance experiences; parents cannot mold their children's nature, nor should they wish to, any more than they can redesign that of their spouses. Those little slates are not as blank as they may seem.
Dr. Pinker has little time for two other doctrines often allied with the Blank Slate. One is "the Ghost in the Machine," the assumption of an immaterial soul that lies beyond the reach of neuroscience, and he criticizes the religious right for thwarting research with embryonic stem cells on the ground that a soul is lurking within. 
The third member of Dr. Pinker's unholy trinity is "the Noble Savage," the idea that the default state of human nature is mild, pacific and unacquisitive. Dr. Pinker believes, to the contrary, that dominance and violence are universal; that human societies are more given to an ethos of reciprocity than to communal sharing; that intelligence and character are in part inherited, meaning that "some degree of inequality will arise even in perfectly fair economic systems," and that all societies are ethnocentric and easily roused to racial hatred.
Following in part the economist Thomas Sowell, he distinguishes between a leftist utopian vision of human nature (the mind is a blank slate, man is a Noble Savage, traditional institutions are the problem) and the tragic vision preferred by the right (man is the problem; family, creed and Adam Smith's Invisible Hand are the solutions). 
"My own view is that the new sciences of human nature really do vindicate some version of the tragic vision and undermine the utopian outlook that until recently dominated large segments of intellectual life," he writes.
With "The Blank Slate," Dr. Pinker has left the safe territory of irregular verbs. But during a conversation in his quiet Victorian house a few blocks from the bustle of Harvard Square, he seemed confident of dodging the explosions that have rocked his predecessors. "Wilson didn't know what he was getting into and had no idea it would cause such a ruckus," he said. "This book is about the ruckus; it's about why people are so upset." 
"It's conceivable that if you say anything is innate, people will say you are racist, but the climate has changed," he says. "I don't actually believe that the I.Q. gap is genetic, so I didn't say anything nearly as inflammatory as Herrnstein and Murray," the authors of the 1994 book "The Bell Curve," who argued that inborn differences in intelligence explain much of the economic inequality in American society.
Despite his confidence, Dr. Pinker is explicitly trying to set off an avalanche. He compares the overthrow of the blank slate view to another scientific revolution with fraught moral consequences, that of Galileo's rejection of the church's ideas about astronomy. "We are now living, I think, through a similar transition," he writes, because the blank slate, like the medieval church's tidy hierarchy of the cosmos, is "a doctrine that is widely embraced as a rationale for meaning and morality and that is under assault from the sciences of the day."
Dr. Pinker is not the fire-breathing kind of revolutionary. He has a thick mop of curly brown hair, edged respectably with gray, and a mild, almost diffident manner. A writer for the Canadian magazine Macleans described Dr. Pinker, who was born in Montreal, as "endearingly Canadian: polite, soft-spoken, attentive to what others say." Teased about this description, he notes that Canadians also gave the world ice hockey.
Born in 1954, he grew up in the city's Jewish community, in the neighborhood described in Mordecai Richler's novel "The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz." He was caught up in the debates of the 60's and 70's about social organization and human nature, but found his teenage anarchist views of the nobility of human nature dealt a sharp empirical refutation by the Montreal police strike of 1969; in the absence of authority, Montrealers turned immediately to lawlessness, robbing 6 banks and looting 100 stores before the Mounties restored order.
Trained as an experimental psychologist at Harvard, Dr. Pinker took up the study of language and became convinced that the brain's linguistic ability must rest on built-in circuitry. This made him think other faculties and behaviors could be innate, despite the unpopularity of the idea. "People think the worst environmental explanation is preferable to the best innatist explanation," he says.
Dr. Pinker first became known outside his specialty through his 1994 book "The Language Instinct," an approachable account of how the brain is constructed to learn language. He followed up that success with "How the Mind Works," in which he shared his enthusiasm for the ideas of evolutionary psychology. "The Blank Slate" further broadens his ambit from neuroscience to political and social theory.
Like Edward O. Wilson, who began as a specialist in ants and mastered ever larger swaths of biology, Dr. Pinker has a gift of summarizing other specialists' works into themes that are larger than their parts. Synthesisers are rare animals in the academic zoo because they risk being savaged by those whose territory they invade. "Everything in the study of human behavior is controversial, and if you try to sum it up you will ride roughshod over specialists, so you've got to have a strong stomach," Dr. Pinker said. 
The critics of sociobiology caricatured their opponents as "determinists," even though few, if any, people believe human nature is fully determined by the genes. Could Dr. Pinker's description of the Blank Slate similarly overstate their views? He says he shows at length how critics like Dr. Lewontin have made statements that "are really not too far from the collection of positions that I call the Blank Slate," with Dr. Lewontin and others having even written a book called "Not in Our Genes."
Though Dr. Pinker believes the politics and science of human nature should be disentangled, that does not mean political arrangements should ignore or ride roughshod over human nature. To the contrary, a good political system "should mobilize some parts of human nature to rein in other parts." The framers of the Constitution took great interest in human nature and "by almost any measure of human well-being, Western democracies are better," he says. 
Dr. Pinker believes that human nature "will increasingly be explained by the sciences of mind, brain, genes and evolution." But if political and social systems should be designed around human nature, won't that give enormous power to the psychologists, neuroscientists, and geneticists are in a position to say what human nature is?
"It's a game anyone should be able to play if they do their homework," he says, "so I hope it wouldn't become the exclusive province of a scientific priesthood." 

Born With It? Author Suggests Yes
There is evidence that some universal human social behaviors and faculties are innate, and presumably shaped in part by the genes. In "The Blank Slate," Dr. Steven Pinker lists some behaviors of political consequence which he considers may fall in this category. 

Innate Social Behaviors
*Primacy of family ties, making nepotism and inheritance appealing.
*A propensity to share based on reciprocity where nonrelatives are concerned (within the family, it is free).
*A drive for dominance and a willingness to use violence to attain goals.
*Ethnocentrism and other forms of group-against-group hostility.
*Variation in intelligence (leading to inequalities) and in conscientiousness and antisocial behavior (leading to punitive constraints).
*Self-serving biases that deceive people into thinking they are freer, wiser and more honest than they are.
*A moral sense, biased toward kin and friends, and linked to ideas of purity, beauty and rank.

Innate Abilities
*An intuitive physics, used to keep track of the "oomph" of objects as they fall, bounce or bend. 
*An intuitive biology, used to understand the living world by imputing an essence to living things. 
*An intuitive engineering, used to make and understand tools.
*An intuitive psychology, used to understand others by imputing to them a mind with beliefs and desires. 
*A spatial sense and a dead reckoner tracking the body's motions.
*A number sense, based on ability to register small numbers of things (1, 2 and 3) exactly and to estimate larger ones.
*A sense of probability, used to estimate uncertain outcomes by tracking how common one event is in relation to another. 
*An intuitive economics, used to exchange goods and calculate favors.
*A mental database and logic, used to represent ideas, associate one thing with another and devise causal explanations.
*Language, the gift of sharing ideas from the mental database with others. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In his new book, Dr. Steven Pinker is trying to create more political elbow room for those studying the way that genes shape human behavior. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (78%); POLITICS (77%); GENOMICS (76%); BIOCHEMISTRY (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); HISTORY (69%); CHILDREN (64%) BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY; GENETICS AND HEREDITY; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: PINKER, STEVEN (DR); WADE, NICHOLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

TITLE: BLANK SLATE, THE: THE MODERN DENIAL OF HUMAN NATURE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



452 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Survey Finds Artists Since 9/11 Have Less Work and More Debt 

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
A survey of the city's artistic corps has found that a vast majority of working artists are still reeling from the effects of last year's terrorist attacks, with significant lost income, spent savings and the threat of eviction among their chief concerns.
 The survey was commissioned by the New York Foundation for the Arts in conjunction with the Consortium for Worker Education, a nonprofit worker training and schooling program, and Downtown NYC!, a nonprofit arts organization. More than 700 artists -- representing music, film and theater as well as the fine arts -- responded to the survey, which was conducted over three weeks in August. The findings are to be released today. 
 According the survey, four out of five artists have suffered a loss of income since last September, with the average loss in individual income being 46 percent. As a result, artists are increasingly forced to dip into their savings and to increase their debt load; 60 percent of survey respondents reported taking on more debt in the last year.
The various problems reported by respondents included a reduction in film production (meaning lost jobs for actors), a drop in tourism (lost jobs in restaurants and hotels, sources of supplemental income for many artists), and fewer freelance writing assignments. 
Such economic strains are also having a profound effect on the basic necessities for artists; 13 percent of those surveyed had either been evicted or were in the process of being evicted from their homes, while 16 percent had lost or were losing their work spaces. In addition, 22 percent said they had become unemployed or lost support jobs outside their artistic discipline since last September. 
For those who monitor and assist artists, the results were sobering.
"The survey demonstrates the substantial economic loss that New York City artists have been enduring since 9/11," said Theodore S. Berger, the executive director of the New York Foundation for the Arts. "There is still much work to be done to get the arts community back on its feet."
Despite their problems, many artists seemed reticent to ask for help. Only about a third of respondents reported applying for any type of public or private disaster aid, with many citing bureacratic red tape as a reason for avoiding aid programs.
A similar number said they would be interested in information about job retraining or placement, though they were not optimistic about their prospects; 81 percent of respondents rated their chances of getting a new job as "poor" or "fair."
Others cited unique problems, including several respondents whose studios -- and work -- were located in the World Trade Center. A full one-third also reported Sept. 11-related health problems, including post-traumatic stress syndrome, that had affected their ability to work. 
All of which seems to have led to a mood of profound despair for the artists surveyed, most of whom are self-employed and therefore especially susceptible to economic droughts. 
"Without savings, health insurance or a pension plan, I feel profoundly at risk," one respondent wrote in an online questionnaire. "But as long as I don't get sick, or old, or step on the cracks in the sidewalk, I suppose I'll be fine." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); FILM (78%); TERRORISM (77%); EVICTION (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); DISASTER RELIEF (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CONSORTIUM FOR WORKER EDUCATION INC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



453 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: Why Japan Steps Gingerly in the Middle East 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
When OPEC ministers meet in Osaka on Thursday, the world will be reminded not just of the cartel's power on the global stage, but also the group's sway over its Japanese hosts.
 Despite spending decades developing other sources of energy, Japan, which must import almost all its oil, is more dependent on Middle East crude than it was in 1973, when the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries organized its first worldwide embargo. As this oil shock rippled through Japan's economy, the globe's second largest, prices spiraled upward and panicked consumers hoarded everyday goods like detergent, sugar and toilet paper. 
 Memories of that event, considered ancient history to most Japanese, are returning to the forefront as talk of a new Middle East war grows. Japan's economy, stuck in a decade-long funk, relies heavily on exports of autos, steel and other goods for growth. With OPEC production quotas at 11-year lows, a disruption of the oil flow from the Middle East could idle Japanese factories and throw Japan back into recession. 
Middle East oil is so crucial to the economy that it heavily colors Japan's role overseas. Reluctant to alienate oil-producing countries, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has, nonetheless, hedged his support for President Bush's campaign to attack Iraq. In the end, though, Japan may offer only moral support, analysts say.
Japan remains confident that it can secure enough oil to offset any temporary loss of Middle East crude. The country has a formidable stockpile of fuel, enough to last 171 days. Lawmakers also assume some producers would increase output to make up for losses elsewhere, something the Saudis did during the Persian Gulf war. The spot market is another, more expensive option.
Many critics, though, say that counting on such resources offers a false sense of security. Former Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata remembers how oil embargoes in the 1970's brought the global economy to its knees. Recalling the panicked buying in Japan and the long lines at American gas stations, he said policy makers and oil companies had done a poor job finding alternatives to Middle East oil.
"For a country which consumes so much electricity, it's unusual and very dangerous to rely so highly on Mideast oil," Mr. Hata said in an interview. The events of 20 years ago so shook Mr. Hata that during the summer he wears business suits with half sleeves as a way to urge citizens to turn off their air-conditioners.
To be sure, Japan has done more than most nations to diversify its energy strategy over the last three decades. It has developed nuclear power plants and increased imports of natural gas. Prodded by lawmakers, corporate Japan has not only reduced its use of energy, but also developed highly efficient cars, electronics and machinery.
Japan now relies on oil for 52 percent of its energy needs, down from 73 percent in the mid-1970's. As important, given current events, Japan gets only about 1 percent of its oil from Iraq.
Still, Japan remains dangerously tethered to events in the Middle East. It now imports more than 87 percent of its oil from the region, the highest since 1969. The main culprit is the growing competition for crude from China, Indonesia and Malaysia, which have cut exports and increased imports to fuel their own economies. By 2020, oil is likely to meet a greater share of China's energy needs than Japan's, according to estimates by the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan.
Unlike Japan, which is facing trouble finding local alternatives, the United States can step up imports from Mexico, Canada and other neighbors if the Middle Eastern oil spigot is turned off. European countries can tap the North Sea, Russia and Africa.
As choices for procuring oil narrowed in the last 15 years, Japanese refiners have revamped their operations to accommodate Middle Eastern oil. Compounding matters, Japan's domestic oil market was deregulated in 1996, forcing refiners long cloistered from international competition to slash capacity. With margins squeezed, most have been reluctant to invest in the equipment needed to process other types of oil from Russia, Mexico and beyond.
The government's efforts to help companies find new oil have largely failed, a point driven home two years ago when Japan's Arabian Oil Company lost its concession to fields on the Saudi-Kuwait border. And Japan still lacks oil companies with the needed capital and technology to unearth plentiful amounts of oil. For decades, the government-backed Japan National Oil Company has provided low-cost financing to help the refiners. Yet the public corporation has come under fire for racking up huge debts and encouraging companies to invest in projects they may have otherwise avoided.
"Japanese oil companies are very risk-averse," said Keiichi Yokobori, executive director of the Institute of Research and Innovation in Tokyo. "Perhaps there was a moral hazard because the refiners felt they could contain risks with the government on board."
Just 15 percent of the oil Japan imports is from fields its companies have a stake in. The government has abandoned efforts to raise that target to 30 percent.
Losing the Arabian Oil concession has prompted Japan to try to win access to oil fields in Libya, Iran and several Latin American countries. But here, too, Japanese companies must bid against global giants like Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch/Shell, integrated refiners with deeper roots in the region and the economies of scale to extract oil profitably.
To keep factories humming and maintain its living standards, Japan has focused instead on shaping domestic consumption habits and diversifying energy sources. Most prominently, it has promoted nuclear power, which over the last two decades has tripled to 12 percent of the country's energy mix.
But the program has been hit by several accidents, including one in 1999 north of Tokyo in which two workers died. More bad will was created this month when the country's largest utility, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, admitted to falsifying safety records at its nuclear plants for more than 15 years. The revelation was particularly worrisome because government regulators knew about the problem two years ago but did little to expose it.
Still, the growth of nuclear power is likely to slow, not grow. With the economy projected to expand at an anemic 1.5 percent a year over the next decade, demand for electricity is likely to rise accordingly. The high cost of building and maintaining nuclear plants is another reason Japan expects to add only a dozen new nuclear plants by 2010, down from as many as 20 that were planned.
Japan has also expanded its use of natural gas, which now meets 13 percent of its energy needs, about half the levels in the United States and Europe. Here, geography plays a role. Since Japan has little natural gas of its own, it must purchase it from Indonesia and elsewhere. And to be shipped, the gas must be turned into liquid, driving up its cost.
To circumvent this, Japanese trading and oil companies have formed a consortium to build an ambitious pipeline from Sakhalin in eastern Russia to Japan, more than 900 miles across the North Pacific. The Japan Petroleum Exploration Company, which leads the venture, released a report last month that said the plan was economically and technologically feasible. But the pipeline would be laid across rough seas, and the companies have not clarified how they plan to compensate fishermen who ply these waters and would be forced to fish elsewhere.
Construction of the pipeline -- which newspapers here estimate could cost up to $12 billion -- may start in 2005 and help Japan tap the equivalent of more than two billion barrels of oil. The consortium, though, has still not secured commitments from utilities and manufacturers to buy the natural gas, which analysts say is likely to be expensive because the pipeline's builders will want to recoup their costs.
Despite these hurdles, the government has had success on the margins. By the end of the decade, utilities will be required to use fixed amounts of renewable energy, like solar and wind power, though the price of such energy remains high. Conservation laws passed in recent years require manufacturers to increase energy efficiency in computers, air-conditioners and other electronic gear by as much as 80 percent.
Prodded by the government's commitment to lower greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels, Toyota and Honda have led the global auto industry in developing cars driven by hybrid engines. The Toyota Prius, which runs on gasoline and electricity, "gets twice the fuel efficiency of a conventional car of the same class and has much cleaner emissions," said Paul Nolasco, a Toyota spokesman.
Still, fuel-cell cars -- the ultimate goal -- remain too expensive to produce. Industry experts and automobile executives say the combustion engine is here for at least a few more decades. In the meantime, the amount of oil Japan consumes for home heating and transportation continues to rise, more than offsetting the energy-saving steps taken by Japanese industry. And since consumers generally react more slowly to swings in global prices, a crisis in the Middle East may turn into a rude awakening if the government is forced to limit the use of oil in any way.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Relying on Mideast Oil"Despite efforts in Japan to diversify energy sources, more than half of the country's energy still comes from oil, a growing percentage of which is imported from the Middle East. Graph tracks Middle East's share of Japan's oil imports since 1969. SHARE OF JAPAN'S ENERGY FROM EACH SOURCE '85WATER, THERMAL AND ALTERNATIVE -- 6.0%NUCLEAR -- 8.9%NATURAL GAS -- 9.4%COAL -- 19.4%OIL -- 56.3% '00WATER, THERMAL AND ALTERNATIVE -- 4.7%NUCLEAR -- 12.4%NATURAL GAS -- 13.1%COAL -- 17.9%OIL -- 51.8% Figures may not equal 100 because of rounding.(Source: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CARTELS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); SPOT MARKET (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); HISTORY (74%); DESERT STORM (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); FUEL MARKETS (69%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STOCKPILING; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ;ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) MIDDLE EAST (99%); JAPAN (99%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) MIDDLE EAST; JAPAN; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



454 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
The Dow Ends a Bit Higher, but Technology Shares Slide

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average ended higher yesterday for the first time in four sessions, but the broader stock market finished flat as the technology sector slumped on worries about earnings and the threat of war in the Persian Gulf.
 "Iraq is more than the usual worry because deadlines are getting closer and the situation is starting to accelerate," said Robert Basel, head of listed equity trading at Salomon Smith Barney. "And we are getting right into earnings-warning season -- that's something that is going to be an issue all week." 
 Stocks like Texas Instruments weighed on the high-technology sector after a raft of bearish research notes from Wall Street analysts sent a crucial gauge of that sector to its lowest point in about three and a half years. But the Boeing Company rebounded from days of decline, after averting a strike by its largest union. 
"Technology stocks seem to be saying that things are not getting better, so we should not be expecting too much," said Alfred Kugel, senior strategist at Stein Roe Investment Counsel. But he added that other sectors were doing better.
Yesterday's meager serving of economic news was encouraging. The government reported that businesses added to their inventories for a third consecutive month in July, stockpiling goods in a way that suggested increasing optimism on the economic outlook.
The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended little changed, up 1.29 points, or 0.14 percent, at 891.10. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 67.49 points, or 0.81 percent, at 8,380.18.
The technology-packed Nasdaq index lost 15.52 points, or 1.20 percent, to 1,275.88.
Technology shares followed a downward trend yesterday. Microsoft slipped 13 cents, to $47.78. I.B.M. lost 18 cents, to $72.32. Among other losers, Sun Microsystems lost 18 cents, to $2.93, and the Oracle Corporation shed 45 cents, to $9.28, ahead of its earnings report today.
Boeing shares jumped $1.65, to $37.23. Boeing's largest union said over the weekend that its members had turned down their leaders' call to strike, adopting a contract by default even though more than half the voters opposed the three-year pact.
Companies this week are expected to begin offering warnings of missed earnings. Analysts expect third-quarter earnings at companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 to rise 10.9 percent from the year-ago period, the research firm Thomson First Call said.
The threat of war against Iraq kept sentiment soft. The United States resumed lobbying for a strong United Nations resolution demanding that Iraq disarm, preferably with a threat of severe consequences if Iraq does not comply. The American campaign gathered strength over the weekend when Saudi Arabia said it would back action against Iraq if the United Nations approved it.
"We're waiting to see what happens with Iraq and what the timetable is there," said Michael Kayes, chief investment officer at Eastover Capital Management. "There is no real earnings reason for the market to move higher in a sustainable way. Earnings will turn one day, but the timing of that is uncertain." 
A profit warning from Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing of Singapore and a raft of bearish research notes from analysts sent semiconductor stocks yesterday to their lowest point since late 1998.
"This is really just a crummy environment we have," a semiconductor analyst at Banc of America, Mark FitzGerald, said. "The analysts are just starting to pile on."
Texas Instruments fell 73 cents, to $18.27, after Prudential cut its price target to $28, from $33. Shares in the microchip maker Atmel tumbled 33 cents, or 18 percent, to $1.47, after Prudential lowered its target to $2 from $6.
Lucent Technologies fell 19 cents, or 15 percent, to $1.07 after hitting a record low of $1.05. Goldman, Sachs said that Lucent's financial warning on Friday showed there was no pick-up in telecommunications spending. --------------------

Treasury Prices Mixed
(By Bloomberg News) -- Treasuries were mixed as a rebound in stocks crimped demand for fixed-rate government securities.
"Higher equity prices have been identified with greater consumer confidence," helping the economy and dimming the allure of Treasuries, said Mark Mahoney, head of interest-rate strategy at UBS Warburg.
The price of the Treasury's 10-year note fell 2/32, to 103 24/32. The yield was unchanged at 3.91 percent.
The price of the 30-year note rose 5/32, to 109 18/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.76 percent from 4.77 percent on Friday.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.58099.171High Rate1.6601.640Investment Rate1.6921.676Low Rate1.62%1.58%Median Rate1.65%1.62%Total applied for$39,668,085$38,483,980Accepted$22,063,960$17,912,098Noncompetitive$1,398,406$1,000,500

Both issues are dated Sept. 16, 2002. The three-month bills mature on Dec.19, 2002, and the six-month bills mature on March. 20, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); BOEING CO (84%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (73%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



455 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
YEN SLIPS. The dollar rose to its highest level against the yen in three months as traders speculated that Japan may sell currency to help spur economic growth. In New York, the dollar settled at 122.24 yen, from 121.73 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since March 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); TRENDS (83%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



456 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. to Rule on Possible Steel Quotas 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization agreed today to rule on a United States complaint that European Union quotas and tariffs on steel imports are illegal.
 The E.U. said in March that it might apply tariffs as high as 26 percent on some steel products to protect its manufacturers. 
The Europeans fear a surge in imports looking for new markets after the United States imposed tariffs as high as 30 percent. 
 On top of the safeguard measures, the E.U. may choose to retaliate against United States steel protection by imposing tariffs worth as much as $350 million on citrus, clothing and other imports from the United States. The European trade commissioner, Pascal Lamy, is expected to make a decision on retaliation by the end of the month.
The European Union announced the safeguard measures "without clear evidence that increased imports are causing or threatening to cause serious injury" to its domestic steel industry, Steve Fabry, senior legal adviser at the United States mission to the W.T.O. in Geneva, told a W.T.O. dispute meeting.
European steel tariffs would apply to 15 products, from sheets for car doors to wires used in construction. They would take effect once last year's global imports of 27 million metric tons are exceeded.
The E.U. "strongly deplores the U.S. decision" to bring a W.T.O. complaint against the safeguard tariffs, Carlo Trojan, European ambassador to the W.T.O., told the dispute meeting.
Aimed at preventing steel intended for the United States from being diverted to the European market, the safeguards "fundamentally differ" from the United States tariffs, Mr. Trojan said.
A W.T.O. dispute panel may take at least a year to deliver a final decision on the United States complaint. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (94%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%) STEEL AND IRON; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



457 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: ON THE GROUND: San Francisco; 
A Good Time for Bay Area Bargains

BYLINE:  By DREW LIMSKY; This feature about places to stay, eat and visit in leading business destinations appears every Tuesday.

 BODY:
While stories of unemployed professionals abound in San Francisco, home to the headquarters of Fortune 500 companies like Wells Fargo, the Gap and Levi Strauss, there is an upside to the Bay Area's economic slowdown for corporate visitors. Top hotels are offering specials, and some of the city's best restaurants no longer require reservations a month in advance. 
Downtown is known as Union Square, a high-end shopping area flanked by Nob Hill to the northwest and the financial district to the east. Cars are unnecessary, and parking is expensive. Time-short travelers may want to skip the crowded cable cars that run north up to the souvenir shops of Fisherman's Wharf. Happily, seats are almost always available on the east-west California Street line, which climbs Nob Hill and is steps from most major hotels.

HOTELS
 At the MANDARIN ORIENTAL (415-276-9888, $500 to $3,000), which occupies the top 11 floors of the third-highest office tower in the city, the commanding views make it difficult to keep your mind on business. Still, it is in the heart of the financial district, is wired for videoconferencing, has 3,900 square feet of meeting space and provides high-speed Internet access. It also has a 24-hour fitness center and features large bathrooms, some with vistas of the Transamerica Pyramid and the Golden Gate Bridge. 
 The RITZ-CARLTON (415-296-7465, $450 to $5,200), the chain's flagship property, occupies a stunning 1909 neoclassical building halfway up Nob Hill. One-third of the 336 rooms are found on the club level, the "hotel within the hotel" that provides a separate concierge service. For corporate regulars, the Ritz-Carlton launders and stores clothes between visits in its "luggageless travel" program.
The Ritz-Carlton's dining room (415-773-6198, $200 for two, including wine and tip) is formal, while the more relaxed Terrace serves lunch fare like lobster salad and turkey sandwiches with huge slabs of avocado. It also provides seating in its outdoor garden.
Just off Union Square, the low-key CAMPTON PLACE (415-781-5555, $335 to $2,000) provides five meeting rooms, evening limousine service and an overnight shoeshine -- and is known for its substantial breakfasts. The French toast is a winner, cut thick and served with whipped cream and peach compote.
On Nob Hill, the MARK HOPKINS INTER-CONTINENTAL (415-392-3434, $355 to $3,000), home of the famous Top of the Mark lounge, offers 22 business guest rooms equipped with printer-fax-copier machines and lumbar-friendly ergonomic desk chairs.

DINING OUT
BOULEVARD (415-543-6084, $150) offers New American food in an Art Nouveau dining room. Valerie Harper, who recently starred in "The Tale of the Allergist's Wife" at the Curran Theater, is a regular when she is in town. "I had the most fantastic mushroom soup, the most extraordinary little confection," she said. Save room for the chocolate pudding cake, served with three kinds of chocolate ice cream -- dark, milk and white.
SILKS (415-986-2020, $150), the restaurant at the Mandarin, gets high marks for both its contemporary American fare with Pacific Rim influences and its efficient service. The chef, Christophe Vessaire, creates dishes like crab agnolotti with asparagus, prepared with tarragon or a truffle-oil-based sauce. Silks at Six -- an early, three-course prix fixe dinner for $39.95 -- is popular with business travelers. 
Iris Chan, executive vice president of Wells Fargo, recommends Wolfgang Puck's POSTRIO (415-776-7825, $150) for its hospitality as well as its cuisine, which she describes as "very San Franciscan and very Californian."
AQUA (415-956-9662, $200), set in a dramatically lighted, earth-toned room, is the city's most prestigious seafood restaurant; its menu features delicacies like caviar parfait and potato-encrusted sea bass.

ENTERTAINMENT
Ms. Harper enjoys the "fabulous kitsch" at TONGA (415-772-5278), the Polynesian bar at the Fairmont Hotel known for its fake rainstorms. At the CURRAN THEATER (415-551-2000), Baz Luhrmann's "La Boheme" will be having a pre-Broadway run from Oct. 1 through Nov. 10.

ON YOUR OWN
This city is a walker's delight, and some of the best tours are detailed in "Fodor's San Francisco." Russian Hill on foot can be magical, with its hidden staircases and parks, and North Beach, the San Francisco version of Little Italy, is ringed with cafes and pasta places, some right off pleasant Washington Square Park. The landmark CITY LIGHTS BOOKSTORE (415-362-8193), long associated with the Beat Generation, is worth a browse, and Chinatown and Telegraph Hill are not far away.

LOCAL LORE
San Francisco's unusual topography and atmospheric mists have served as the backdrops to many movies, especially mysteries. The Barbary Lane in "Tales of the City" was inspired by Macondray Lane in Russian Hill, and film buffs will remember the obsessed Jimmy Stewart trailing Kim Novak in "Vertigo" to the York Hotel on Sutter Street and to a stately Nob Hill building on Sacramento Street.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A packed San Francisco cable car travels past the shops along Geary Street near Union Square. (Kim Kulish/Corbis Saba) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PHOTOCOPIERS (67%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (66%); OFFICE FURNITURE (60%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (92%); RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (85%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (58%)

PERSON: LIMSKY, DREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



458 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Will Get Power, and Pollution, From Mexico 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICALI, Mexico, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
American companies have long faced intense resistance to big new power plants from communities crying, "Not in my backyard."
 Now they have a big new backyard: Mexico. 
 Here on the edge of Mexicali, a few miles from the California border, two huge power plants are rising in the desert, near a graveyard and a clutch of hovels. They will generate billions of watts for millions of Californians, a handful of jobs for Mexicans and pollution on both sides of the border. 
They are "what free trade is all about," says an official of InterGen, the company building one. But a California congressman calls placing the plants in Mexico a form of environmental imperialism. 
The plants will be the first of many built in Mexico specifically to provide power for the United States, says Mexico's energy secretary, Ernesto Martens. And that represents a new phase in relations between the two nations.
First came the labor of migrant workers. Then, in the 1990's, came the maquiladoras, the assembly-line factories providing cheap Mexican labor for American and multinational corporations under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Now these 21st-century plants -- call them energy maquiladoras -- represent a new way to generate wealth and power by capitalizing on the economic and legal differences dividing Mexico and the United States. 
Mexico's environmental law enforcement is weaker, its government less transparent, its desire for foreign capital bottomless. California's energy demand is enormous -- as big as its citizens' resistance to huge power plants. 
These projects are the first result.
"Building anything on the Mexican side is much cheaper, mostly because of the regulatory system," which is less stringent than in the United States, said Ernesto Ruffo, President Vicente Fox's border commissioner.
President Bush and the United States Department of Energy had to issue special presidential permits for the plants, which will be powered by natural gas piped from Texas, cooled by Mexicali's sewage and linked to California's grid next year.
One is being built by InterGen, owned by Shell Oil and the Bechtel Corporation. Up to 560 of its 1060 megawatts will go north, 500 to Mexico. The company concedes that the plant does not meet California's pollution standards and would not be licensed across the border. 
California's senators and two congressmen whose districts border Mexico have introduced legislation to stop InterGen from providing power to the state without meeting its standards. One, Representative Bob Filner, a San Diego Democrat, called placing the plants in Mexico "19th-century imperialism."
But even though, as Mr. Filner said, "the Border Patrol has not yet figured out how to stop air pollution," United States laws do not govern Mexico.
The second plant, built by Sempra Energy, based in San Diego, meets California standards. It could conceivably have been built there, but at a greater cost to its owners, who would have to pay to offset what pollution it would create. All its 600 megawatts will go to California.
A megawatt is roughly enough electricity for up to 1,000 homes. The plants together can power more than one million California houses.
Don Felsinger, president of Sempra Energy Group Enterprises, said "we thought it was good business and it made environmental sense" to build its plant to California standards. It took only six months to license the plant; in California, it would have been two years, he said.
Like California, Mexico is facing an energy crunch. The country needs at least 29,000 more megawatts over the next decade, at an expected cost of $30 billion -- money Mexico does not have.
The irony of exporting power when Mexicans need more -- and when their electricity bills are doubling -- is not lost on the populace. But support for the new plants among politicians is nearly total. Public opposition to the plants was muted by the fact that they were a done deal before the public knew anything about them. 
"There is no right to know in Mexico," said Fernando Medina, a social scientist in Mexicali. "Even had we known these plants would be built, no social or political force could stop them." 
Margarito Quintero, who like Mr. Medina teaches at the Autonomous University of Baja California, said: "There are no laws in Mexico to limit these plants. Their existence is a reflection of the inequalities between the two countries."
The plants will pollute the air and the water in California's Imperial Valley, a heavily Hispanic region north of Mexicali, according to local officials. But they appear exempt from the environmental laws of the United States.
"Our Department of Energy said this project is not going to have any environmental impact, and we were screaming, saying, 'That's garbage, of course it will,' " said Steve Birdsall, director of the Imperial County Air Pollution Control District. 
He said the InterGen plant would send more than 3,800 tons of pollutants a year into the air (Sempra's smaller plant will emit one-tenth that much). And he assailed InterGen for ignoring California standards.
"They are the epitome of corporate arrogance," he said. "They have not been honest with us."
At InterGen, John Foster, a senior vice president, said his company had been "honest and straightforward." He said InterGen might even retrofit its plant to comply completely with California standards, assuming consumers would help pay the added cost of up to $20 million.
He said the key to building more plants in Mexico to serve the United States -- "a great idea" -- was to harmonize the two nations' environmental laws.
"Then everybody would be playing by the same rules," he said.
In Mexicali, so close to the United States and yet so far, people who live next to the plants accept them with a fatalistic shrug.
Elisabeth Figueroa, 31, started work this week as an office cleaner at the InterGen plant, making $2 an hour on a month-to-month contract. "We need the light and electricity around here, but most of it is going north," she said. "And we know it will be bad for the environment, but we need the work.
"Maybe it's unjust," she said. "But we Mexicans are used to injustice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The huge Sempra power plant under construction on the outskirts of Mexicali, a few miles from the United States border, is neighbor to a cemetery. The plant and another nearby will supply power to California. (Earl S. Cryer for The New York Times) Chart: "COMPARISON: Air Quality Standards"Mexico's air quality standards for gas-fired power plants contrast greatly with those of California. The numbers below represent parts per million. Standards for electricity plants POLLUTANT: Nitrogen oxideCALIFORNIA: 2.5MEXICO: 139.0 POLLUTANT: Carbon monoxideCALIFORNIA: 4.0MEXICO: No limit Overall air quality standards POLLUTANT: Sulfur dioxideUNITED STATES: 0.14MEXICO: 0.33 POLLUTANT: Carbon monoxideUNITED STATES: 9.00MEXICO: 11.00 POLLUTANT: OzoneUNITED STATES: 0.12MEXICO: 0.11 Map of Mexico highlighting Mexicali (Sources: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; Sempra Energy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); MIGRANT WORKERS (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LABOR; AIR POLLUTION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; GAS (FUEL); WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (81%); SEMPRA ENERGY (58%); SHELL OIL CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%) BECHTEL GROUP; INTERGEN 

TICKER: SRE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (57%); BOB FILNER (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) WEINER, TIM; MARTENS, ERNESTO (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%) MEXICO; CALIFORNIA; MEXICALI (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



459 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: For Sale Upstate: Home and Underground Silo (Missile Extra) 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SARANAC, N.Y., Sept. 12 

 BODY:
For sale: In beautiful Adirondack Park, just 20 minutes from golf courses and ski areas, the ultimate in mountain luxury. Three bedrooms, three baths, septic system, Jacuzzi and seven-story underground missile silo designed to absorb the shock of a direct nuclear hit.
 All this and more, including a private airstrip, may be yours if you are the high bidder in an eBay auction that ends Sept. 25. 
 "This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for you to purchase one of the most secure residential properties in the United States today," reads the property description. "This could be your weapon against growing world terrorism." 
With a required minimum bid of $2.1 million, the auction has yet to attract any buyers. But Bruce Francisco, who owns the property with his cousin, Gregory Gibbons, said he was not worried. "From what I understand, everyone waits until the end to bid," he said.
The property is one of several Cold War missile-launching sites around the country that have been converted to homes -- part of a small, increasingly costly real estate niche. 
Still, the silo here has not been an easy sell. The owners promote the property, which has been on the market for several years, as both a cutting-edge "extreme home" and as a nostalgic curiosity, "a rare 20th-century collectible." In 1999, as Year 2000 fears mounted, it was advertised as a secure data-storage facility. And now, a year after the terror attacks, the owners are appealing to Americans' renewed sense of vulnerability.
"In a year, or 10 years, this thing may be priceless," Mr. Francisco said. "Who knows, with the world the way it is?"
The silo dates to 1960, when the nation's fears focused not on Middle Eastern terrorists but on Cuba and the Soviet Union. Around that time, a dozen Atlas-F missile sites were built within a 40-mile radius of Plattsburgh Air Force Base in northern New York.
Missiles and crews arrived in 1962, but the Atlas was declared obsolete within two years. The Defense Department moved on to more advanced weaponry, and the Atlas sites were deactivated. Plattsburgh Air Force Base closed in 1995.
Salvage companies bought some of the sites for the steel. Several were acquired by town governments, which used the above-ground Quonset huts to store highway equipment. Individuals bought several locations; at least two others in the Plattsburgh area are on the market.
Mr. Gibbons bought his property, which is midway between Saranac Lake and Plattsburgh, as an investment a decade ago for $55,000. He first intended to salvage the steel, but could not bring himself to dismantle the silo. Instead, he pumped out the water and sludge, hauled away old, rusted equipment and built a house on a neighboring lot. He and his cousin, a Connecticut real estate developer, then built on the missile site.
The result is a normal-looking house above two unseen underground cylinders. The smaller cylinder, which served as a two-story control center, is connected by tunnel to the deep silo that once housed an 81-foot missile.
The control center is a living space, accessible by a staircase leading to two sets of thick steel doors. Subterranean bedrooms, bathrooms and living areas surround a thick central support tower wrapped by a spiral staircase.
Backlit block-glass windows create the effect of outdoor light, but this is not a home for the claustrophobic. The underground floors are utterly quiet, with a constant ambient temperature of about 58 degrees.
Mr. Francisco describes the space as ideal for sound sleeping and focused work. "There might be a blizzard outside and you wouldn't know it," he said.
The tunnel and the silo have been cleaned but not renovated, Mr. Francisco said.
If the eBay auction does not produce a buyer, there are other strategies. Alternative uses suggested on Silohome.com, the owners' Web site, include a bed-and-breakfast, movie location and recording studio.
Mr. Francisco is also showing the property to other potential buyers who expressed an interest before the auction began.
Sooner or later a buyer, if only for investment purposes, will be found, predicted Edward Peden, who owns Twentieth Century Castles, a Kansas-based company that specializes in selling underground properties.
"I don't push the fear factor," he said. "But there are things that could happen in the world that could cause these properties to be among the most coveted in existence."
Mr. Peden, a former high school teacher who lives in a former Atlas silo outside Topeka, has sold 27 former missile sites in the last seven years. His company listed a missile silo on eBay last summer. A potential buyer met the minimum bid of $1 million, but the deal later fell through.
Although the company received a flurry of calls after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, sales have not increased, Mr. Peden said.
"The economy is flat," he said. "More and more, these are becoming properties for the wealthy."
Early buyers found sites for as little as $40,000. More recently, a Colorado site sold for $487,000. Values are likely to continue climbing because of property improvements, scarcity and global uncertainties, Mr. Peden said.
"There's only a handful of these in existence," he said. "They are historic. We think they are the American counterparts of the European castle."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Beneath a house in Saranac, N.Y., a former missile control room is now a kitchen and living space, top. Bruce Francisco stood in a tunnel that leads from the home to a missile silo, above left, and opened a steel door. (Photographs by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times) Illustration (John Papasian/The New York Times) Chart/Diagram: "Silo for Sale"Originally built as a missile launch pad in the early 1960's to defend nearby Plattsburgh Air Force Base, it has now been refitted as a luxury home available on eBay. Diagram shows the features of a house that was once a missile launch pad in the early 1960's. Some features include:A two-story luxury living space in the former missile launch control centerMultilevel unfinished underground silo built to withstand nuclear attackPaved private airstrip Map of New York highlighting Plattsburgh and the location of the home site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); AIR FORCES (89%); ARMED FORCES (85%); SKIING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MILLENNIUM (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); TERRORISM (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (61%) HOUSING; AUCTIONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; PLATTSBURGH AIR FORCE BASE (NY) 

ORGANIZATION: EBAY INC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE; ADIRONDACK PARK

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



460 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Kmart Reports Loss As Sales Stay Slow 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TROY, Mich., Sept. 16 

 BODY:
The Kmart Corporation said today that its quarterly loss was unchanged, at $377 million, as it closed stores. The company lost another $144 million last month as sales tumbled. 
 On a per-share basis, the loss narrowed to 75 cents from 77 cents, Kmart said. Sales in the period, which ended July 31 and was the second quarter of Kmart's fiscal year, fell 16 percent, to $7.52 billion from $8.92 billion. 
 Kmart's sales have fallen as consumers have slowed their spending in the faltering economic recovery and as rivals like Wal-Mart Stores and Target have tried to siphon off Kmart's customers. The company, based in Troy, has closed 283 unprofitable stores and laid off about 22,000 workers to pare costs. 
"We've gotten past the stage in the first part of bankruptcy where there were so many nonrecurring and reorganization-related items," said Richard D. Hastings, an analyst at Cyber Business Credit. In the first quarter, Kmart had a loss of $1.45 billion, or $2.88 a share. 
Sales at stores open at least a year fell 11 percent in the most recent quarter and dropped 12 percent in August. Such same-store sales are a crucial retail indicator because they exclude results from new and closed locations. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 18, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article by Bloomberg News in Business Day yesterday about Kmart's quarterly results misstated the company's loss for August. It was $126 million, not $144 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%) COMPANY REPORTS; BANKRUPTCIES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (93%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: KMART CORP 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



461 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: Worst-Hit Firm Faults Fairness Of Sept. 11 Aid 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Officials with Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost more people than any other company in the World Trade Center attack, have concluded that the federal fund meant to compensate survivors of victims is unfair, violates several laws and threatens to shortchange the families of its 658 slain employees by hundreds of millions of dollars.
 At the heart of the firm's objections, contained in a formal report that Cantor will submit to the federal government this week, is its claim that the administrator of the fund has set a cap on awards in violation of the legislation that created the fund. The officials also argue that the decision by the fund's special master to make awards based on after-tax projections of lost income is illegal under New York State law and will deprive families of a third or more of the total payment to which they are entitled. 
 While a chorus of discontent has swelled recently about the fairness of the fund, Cantor's report represents the most substantive and serious challenge yet to the basic rules underlying the fund. And given the firm's financial clout and sympathetic public stature, its attack on the fund has the potential, some lawyers and family members say, of plunging the entire program into disarray. 
Yesterday, the special master in charge of the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund, Kenneth R. Feinberg, said he had not seen the report, and could not comment on it. While he continued to express confidence that his rules would pass legal muster, he also said that he eagerly awaited Cantor Fitzgerald's conclusions.
"I look forward with great interest to receiving it," he said. "I will review it with great care, because anything that will help me in the difficult task of computing awards in individual cases, I welcome."
Cantor's findings are based on a six-month examination conducted with the help of the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in New York and the economic consulting firm of Chicago Partners in Chicago. The report, a copy of which was given to The New York Times, was mailed to Cantor families over the weekend and was scheduled to be posted on its Web site this morning.
Cantor's general counsel, Stephen M. Merkel, charged last week that Mr. Feinberg had assumed "the role of a sovereign power" with too much discretion and too little oversight of the fund, which was established by Congress after the terror attacks. As a result, Cantor is now suggesting that its families -- as well as the families of all other Sept. 11 victims -- refrain from applying for money from the fund unless wholesale reforms are made or, if necessary, legal challenges are mounted.
"The regulations are wrong on so many levels, because they are contrary to the statute," said Mr. Merkel, who is also Cantor's executive managing director. Then, referring to Mr. Feinberg, he added: "I think his heart is in the right place. But his role is ministerial, not prime ministerial. He is supposed to carry out acts mandated by Congress. He has not been given some role of sovereign power."
Under Mr. Feinberg's projections, the family of a 30-year-old broker at the firm who was earning roughly $110,000 on average over the last three years would be entitled to an award of roughly $3 million. Under the firm's formula, which uses gross income and a more bullish estimation of future earnings, the family should receive an award closer to $5 million. The award itself would not be taxed in either case.
Cantor Fitzgerald's assessment comes at a critical moment for the multibillion-dollar fund. Having failed so far to attract large numbers of families, the fund is set to make an important series of awards that many families and their lawyers believe will at long last give a clear sense of how generous the payments are likely to be.
But yesterday, Mr. Feinberg indicated he was unlikely to overhaul the rules governing the fund. He repeated earlier public pronouncements that "there will be no change in the final rules and regulations," partly because 52 families have already been offered awards averaging $1.57 million each.
However, one law professor who is not connected to Cantor but who has reviewed the company's submission, says that it contains strong arguments that could have significant implications.
"The legal arguments made in the submission about legislative intent and state law call into question the judgment -- as well as the biases -- of the special master's discretionary interpretations on the important issues of calculation of salaries and fair compensation, and are supported by substantial case law and precedent," said Pamela S. Falk, a professor at the City University of New York who has written extensively about the fund.
The core of the firm's dissatisfaction with the fund and its rules concerns what it believes is, in effect, an artificial lid on payments to high-income employees. Cantor officials assert that the fund is illegally forcing families to prove "extraordinary circumstances" for awards higher than the fund's generic calculations of the potential earnings of those lost on Sept. 11. In that, they say, the fund and its administrator are denying the families the full recovery for their losses explicitly promised by Congressional leaders when the fund was established.
In other words, what Mr. Feinberg should not be doing, the report says, is making "value judgments about different groups of income earners."
At 59 pages for the legal portion, and 17 pages for the economic one, the report contains many legal and economic arguments, as well as a revealing look at the company's complex compensation packages.
Cantor officials say there are huge discrepancies -- sometimes by differences of 100 percent or more -- between Mr. Feinberg's census-based projected increases in individual salaries and Cantor's actual data. Indeed, more than 250 Cantor victims had incomes above the 98th percentile, the highest level to be calculated on Mr. Feinberg's generic chart.
Those income figures do not include stock options, said Karen L. Valihura, a litigation partner with the office of Skadden Arps in Wilmington, Del.
The report argues that the Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund, a charity that was started soon after the attacks, should count as a charitable deduction and not as a mandatory deduction -- or "collateral offset," in the fund's formal language. It also argues that the presumed awards of $250,000 for the pain and suffering of each decedent's family are "woefully inadequate" and "violate the statute" because they do not take individual circumstances into account.
The average age of Cantor's 658 victims was 38, and the report contends that the fund is biased against single victims. As a result, the family of a victim who was married in early September 2001 would receive an award 56 percent higher than the family of a victim who was to be married the next week, said Kevin Dages, a principal with Chicago Partners.
By late yesterday, few Cantor families said that they had received the report, which has been so highly anticipated by all companies affected by Sept. 11 that it has become known as the Book. In about two weeks, Cantor's families will also receive another individualized report detailing the performances and prospects of each employee before he or she died in the attack.
But when told of the macroeconomic findings in this report, they expressed a mix of surprise and satisfaction -- particularly the section that states that anyone who feels that regulations were "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law" can legally challenge the regulations.
"As the victims' families, we have no choice but to wait until someone steps forward and challenge what we're stuck with," said David Chirls, whose wife, Catherine, was a banker at eSpeed, a division of Cantor. "So this is wonderful to hear that Cantor has done this."
The report amplifies growing criticism of the fund that has emerged recently. There is legislation pending that seeks to amend the original statute. And Charles Wolf, whose wife, Katherine, worked at Marsh & McLennan, started a Web site last week, www.fixthefund.org, which suggests that Congress eliminate the fund's mandatory deductions of life insurance, pensions and other benefits and increase noneconomic damages to $1 million.
Of the 52 families who have already been offered awards averaging $1.57 million apiece, 25 have accepted, 5 have asked for hearings to appeal the decisions and the others have not yet responded. And With additional awards expected soon, Mr. Feinberg expects a heavier flow of applications, especially since the first anniversary has passed. 
But Cantor officials hope that their report -- which was compiled by dozens of people, all working free -- provides a forum for discussion for all families, because the total value of undercompensation for the roughly 3,000 people will be much more than $1 billion.
More than anything else, Mr. Merkel wants to avoid receiving more e-mail like the one he received recently from a family member of a victim who received an award offer, even though the family member thought the methodology was flawed.
It was heartbreaking to read, he said, because it conveyed a sense of resignation, intimidation and frustration.
"It's very hard for people to accept that the government or the special master could make these kinds of giant mistakes, but they have," Mr. Merkel said. "But part of America's greatness is that people are able to challenge the government, and the government is stronger for it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The family of Daniel Trant, a Cantor Fitzgerald employee, gathered at ground zero on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attack. A report by Cantor calls a federal compensation fund unfair to survivors. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); BONDS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); AIRLINES (60%); WEB SITES (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); LAW AND LEGISLATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; TAXATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (84%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: FEINBERG, KENNETH R; CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



462 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
TOOL MAKER'S PROFITS TO FALL SHORT OF EXPECTATIONS

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Illinois Tool Works Inc. said yesterday that its third-quarter profit would fall short of the average Wall Street forecast because of slower-than-expected sales, setting off a 4 percent decline in its share price. 
The company, a diversified manufacturer, stood by its full-year forecast, however, saying it expects economic trends to improve for the remainder of the year. Illinois Tool Works' shares fell $2.25, to $61.05 a share, on the New York Stock Exchange. Last month the company, which is based in Glenview, Ill., forecast a profit of 75 cents to 85 cents per share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); TRENDS (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (84%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC (94%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC 

TICKER: ITW (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS332722 BOLT, NUT, SCREW, RIVET & WASHER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (94%); SIC3542 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL FORMING TYPE (94%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (94%); SIC3452 BOLTS, NUTS, SCREWS, RIVETS & WASHERS (94%) SIC3452 BOLTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



463 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Up, Down, In and Out in Beverly Hills: Rats 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Sept. 12 

 BODY:
"Beverly Hills is a nice place to be a rat," Ray Honda explained, admiring the cool, verdant landscape of the moneyed class, with its fruit trees, bird feeders, swimming pools and dog-food bowls. "It's a very good address."
 Mr. Honda, a Los Angeles County health inspector whose speech and demeanor bring Peter Lorre to mind, was quick to append, "the four-legged kind," adding: "More rats than people, probably. And when they get really bad you can smell them." 
 Across Beverly Hills and the other lush corridors of Los Angeles, rats -- yellow-bellied, pink-tailed, flea-bitten rats -- are wriggling through the woodwork and rooftops. They have come down from the trees and in from the fields, forced into neighborhoods by a strangling drought that has gripped the region. They are eating from dog bowls and drinking from swimming pools and acting in surly ways not normal to the genus. 
How did rodents end up in the lap of luxury? After four consecutive mild winters, their population has multiplied, though no study has been undertaken to determine exactly how many rats there are in Los Angeles County. The rule of thumb is one rat for every human, Mr. Honda said. Add in the severe drought and you have rats commuting to the neighborhoods with low-hanging fruit, exotic gardens and patios, with their outdoor parties and exquisite crumbs.
Take the humiliating case of the well-to-do doctor who recently built himself a dream house off Sunset Boulevard.
The doctor was giving a party a few weeks ago when three rats helped themselves to the crumbs of his outdoor buffet table. One scurried into the postmodern palace through an open door.
If that were not enough, the doctor found five rats swimming in his marble pool on a recent Saturday afternoon.
Mr. Honda, the ratologist, was called in for consultation.
"The thing to do is keep the rats out of the house," he told the housekeeper. "And keep the bamboo shoots trimmed. They like bamboo shoots."
The doctor was called at his office for a telephone conference.
"In my pool," the doctor sighed in the tone of a man who has found a scratch on his new car. "I just built the place. I hear this is happening all over Beverly Hills. It's the drought, they say."
Before he put the phone back on the receiver, the doctor asked a favor. "Can you keep my name out of the newspaper?"
The four-legged scourge is commonly known as the roof rat. Unlike its city cousin the Norway rat, which prefers the denuded and grimy confines of the East Coast, the roof rat, or Rattus rattus, prefers the warm climes of the West. An excellent climber, it lives in trees, shrubs and attics. It is less aggressive and well suited to the California lifestyle, preferring a vegetarian diet.
The roof rat, the carrier of the Black Plague, is a roamer and will take it upon itself to walk to more hospitable habitat -- lush suburban-style enclaves like Beverly Hills, Joining the roof rat in ZIP code 90210 are the wood or field rats, which have been pushed out of the hills by brush fires and the continuing building boom.
For now, the county is not pursuing wholesale rat eradication. Its budget for rodent control efforts -- mainly putting out poison -- is the same as last year's. But that may change as the infestation persists.
Over the last two months a half-dozen restaurants have temporarily closed along the Santa Monica Promenade because of rats. Then there are the phone calls from the panic-stricken socialites in Beverly Hills and Pacific Palisades.
"We'll get hysterical calls about rats crawling on the roofs of houses in Beverly Hills," said Oscar Gonzalez, an exterminator to the stars, who said business is up 30 percent this year. "But that's the price you pay for messing with Mother Nature," Mr. Gonzalez said. "The closer you live to the wild, the closer the wild is to you."
It is not just Beverly Hills. Rats have become a problem across the desiccated West. The lush rose gardens of Pasadena are infested. In Hawaii, the country mice of the sugar cane fields have moved to the city in search of a better way of life. North of Flagstaff, Ariz., health officials have captured plague-toting rodents.
As New Yorkers know so well, rats are indomitable survivors. They can wiggle through a hole the size of a quarter. They can jump two feet high and eight feet long. Able to swim a half-mile and tread water for three days, they can survive being flushed down a toilet and have been found alive in a block of ice. Rats can chew through metal, wood and concrete, which is necessary to their survival because their incisors grow five inches a year, and left unchecked, their teeth would grow through the roofs of their mouths. They breed voraciously and are said to have 15,000 descendants before they die in a year.
Up the coast in Ventura, the public beaches are overrun with rodents.
"The problem is people keep feeding them," said Mike Montoya, the city parks manager. "We've got people taking 30-pound bags of dog food and buckets of water and leaving it out for the squirrels and birds and, yes, the rats. If we take the food away, the rats might move towards town."
But Ventura officials may have contributed to the problem. Several years ago, dogcatchers rounded up the feral cats that marauded Ventura's public beaches. Without the predators, rats have flourished.
In a related case, a brouhaha is bubbling on the beaches of San Pedro in southern Los Angeles, which does not have a rat problem. Animal control officials are considering trapping and removing the 100 or so feral cats that make their dens under the piers. The cats, some residents complain, have created a giant stinking litter box. 
Cat lovers vow a fight. "You take them away and we're going to get rats," said Joann Adler, a local, who collects the cats, has them neutered and then returns them to the beaches. "Besides, what are they going to do with the cats after they capture them? Kill them. That's what."
A solution to the cat and rat problem might be found in downtown Los Angeles, where rats once overran the flower market, gorging themselves on carnations. In an interesting piece of urban wildlife management, a pride of feral cats was introduced, and according to Mr. Honda, the market has never looked cleaner, rat-wise.
Perhaps, it was suggested to Mr. Honda, the neutered beach cats from San Pedro could be set loose in the alleys and peaks of Beverly Hills. The cats would hunt rats, never reproduce and die of old age.
"I wonder if the city of Beverly Hills would go for something like that." Mr. Honda said.
A call was made to the Beverly Hills City Hall. "Feral cats? Oh, no," said a city official, who asked to remain anonymous, because indiscretions often lead to unemployment.
"People here already complain about the coyotes and raccoons and skunks," the official said. "They'd never stand for feral cats."
If any proof of this was needed, an old man who lives in the hills of Alpine Drive happily accepted a bucket of rat poison from Mr. Honda. As an afterthought, he asked, "You have anything for rabbits?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nadie Cambronero, left, works for a doctor who lives in this Beverly Hills house. Apparently the doctor shares his dream home -- in particular the pool -- with rats. Ray Honda, right, a health inspector, offered advice. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); RODENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); PET FOODS (77%); DROUGHT (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%) RATS; SANITATION; DROUGHT 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE; HONDA, RAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF); BEVERLY HILLS (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



464 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
Brother, Can We Spare The Penny?

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
THESE are odd times for Abraham Lincoln. One moment, he's on a roll, his best in years. The next, some want to give him a one-way ticket to Palookaville.
 Lincoln really hit his stride last week with the commemorations of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. In New York, tongued-tied government leaders did not even try for original thoughts about where the city and state stand one year later. They borrowed instead from the past, notably Lincoln's Gettysburg Address. 
 For a while, New York Democrats feared that they would be outclassed in the Lincoln-worship department and that the Republican governor and mayor might gain an advantage. So they considered a 9/11 remembrance of their own, a television spot showing that Democrats, too, could read the Gettysburg Address without their lips hurting. It did not take them long to realize that imitating Republicans imitating Lincoln was not a sign of an innovative spirit. They tossed that idea.
Still, for Lincoln and his legacy, it was a heady time. Then modern realities intruded.
Word came the other day that an internal committee of the United States Mint had raised the possibility of dropping Lincoln from the penny. American coins have become fuddy-duddy, this panel said.
Maybe it is time for a redesign.
The penny would not be alone in undergoing change. Another possibility mentioned by the committee was minting a new dime without the image of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the only president named after a Manhattan highway. But no one would be affected as much as Lincoln. He has graced an American coin longer than any other historic figure, four score and 13 years, or since 1909, for those too weary to do the math.
(He is also the only president on a coin who faces right, an anomaly that officials at the United States Mint say reflects the designer's preference and has no deeper significance.)
Nothing has been decided, the mint says. And nowhere on its radar, it seems, is the possibility of going a giant step further. This would involve designing not a new appearance for the one-cent coin but rather a funeral.
Isn't it finally time, some believe, to put the penny out of its misery? How long, they ask, will the government continue to crank out, by the billions, a coin that is doomed to be treated as a nuisance and ultimately exiled to sock drawers and old jelly jars?
Granted, this is not a new debate.
Pro-penny forces like Americans for Common Cents cite tradition and their belief that rounding prices to the nearest nickel, as urged by those who find the penny dreadful, would inevitably lead to higher prices. Those who want to dump the penny see no reason to assume that rounding prices would be inflationary, and they see even less sense in churning out a coin that is little used.
In 2000, the mint produced a record 28 billion coins. Of those, 14.3 billion were pennies. That pattern is holding, though with the economy's decline, far fewer coins are being minted now.
"Half of all the work of the United States Mint is for a denomination that doesn't circulate," said Beth Deisher, editor of Coin World, a magazine for collectors published in Sidney, Ohio, near Dayton.
FROM a New York perspective, the penny seems especially ill suited to local ways. You can't buy anything with a single penny. Bus drivers won't take the coin. Subway token clerks will, in theory. But try paying the fare with 150 pennies at rush hour. At the supermarket, a sure way to rile people is to fumble for a penny while standing at the head of the checkout line. This impatient city is, if anything, the fidgeting capital of the world.
Even some who you might think thrive on pennies say they could get along without them. Take Teddy Gross. A dozen years ago, he founded Common Cents New York, which encourages schoolchildren to scour their apartments for pennies and then give the money to good causes of their choosing. Last year, Mr. Gross said, students harvested more than 200 tons of coins, worth $720,000 in all.
Nonetheless, "I don't feel the least bit committed to the penny as a coin," he said. If there were no penny, he would simply turn to some other humble object that tends to be wasted. "It's a metaphor really, symbolic of the resources that are available if you look for them," Mr. Gross said.
Don't expect any upheaval soon. Lincoln's coin may be widely regarded as an irritant but hardly an intolerable one. Face it: how often have you had a thought for your pennies?
Sorry. Couldn't resist that one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COINS & COINAGE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TERRORISM (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: US MINT (55%) MINT, BUREAU OF THE 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



465 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Amid Talk of War Spending, Bush Urges Fiscal Restraint 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: DAVENPORT, Iowa, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
President Bush returned today to collecting big checks for Republican candidates and warning Congress to hold the line on government spending, even as his chief economic policy adviser, Lawrence B. Lindsey, said the cost of a war with Iraq could be as high as $100 billion to $200 billion.
 Mr. Lindsey's pronouncement, published in today's Wall Street Journal, contrasted with the message of fiscal restraint that Mr. Bush took to the heartland in a campaign stop for Representative Jim Nussle, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, who is in a close race for re-election. 
 In an appearance with Mr. Nussle in a muggy Starlite Ballroom of the Mississippi Valley Fairgrounds, Mr. Bush praised the Republican-controlled House for passing a budget and then criticized the Democratic-controlled Senate for failing to do so.
"It's important to have a budget in Washington, because without a budget, there is a tendency to overspend," Mr. Bush said. "Without a budget, every idea sounds like a brilliant idea. Without some kind of constraint on the appropriations process in Washington, as they might say in this part of the world, somebody is liable to go hog wild."
In an interview with The Journal, Mr. Lindsey dismissed the economic consequences of spending what he estimated might be 1 percent to 2 percent of the national gross domestic product on a war, and said that it would not seriously affect interest rates or add a great deal to the $3.6 trillion federal debt. As a one-time war cost over one year, the estimated expenditure, Mr. Lindsey said, was "nothing."
Speaking today in Portland, Me., Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill echoed Mr. Lindsey, saying the United States could well pay for any war with Iraq, although he did not give a cost. 
"Whatever it is that's finally decided to be done," Mr. O'Neill said, "we will succeed and we can afford it." 
Democrats said the White House was engaged in budget hypocrisy.
"Clearly you can't attack Congress for overspending at the same time that you're asking for $200 million for military aid," said David Sirota, a Democratic spokesman for the House Appropriations Committee. "They need to stop talking out of both sides of their mouths. It's a joke to call them fiscally responsible."
The Bush administration's apparent willingness to pay for an expensive war with Iraq was in striking contrast to its tone of last month, when Mr. Bush signaled that he could crack down on spending by announcing at an economic forum in Waco, Tex., that he would not release $5.1 billion in emergency funds requested by Congress to fight terrorism. Mr. Bush said then that he wanted to move toward a balanced budget as soon as possible.
Mr. Lindsey's projections on the financial consequences of a war are at odds with those of other government officials and economists, who have said an attack on Iraq could profoundly affect the economy because the country would have to pay most of the cost and bear the brunt of any oil price shock. Twelve years ago, Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the subsequent Persian Gulf war cost the United States and its allies $60 billion and helped set off a recession caused in part by oil prices.
Mr. Bush did not address Mr. Lindsey's projections in his remarks here today, and White House officials refused to elaborate on them. Scott McClellan, the deputy White House press secretary, told reporters that since Mr. Bush had not yet decided on a course of action on Iraq, discussions about the cost of that course were premature.
Mr. Bush's four-hour trip to Iowa, his eighth as president, included a tour of Sears Manufacturing in Davenport, a maker of seats for tractors and trucks. Afterward, Mr. Bush warned several hundred people crowded near the welding department that without a budget the Democratic Senate was likely to be fiscally irresponsible.
"And when they overspend, they not only overspend for this year, this coming year, they'll overspend for every year afterwards, too," Mr. Bush said. 
Mr. Bush then left for the fairgrounds to raise $225,000 for Mr. Nussle, a Republican who is running against Ann Hutchinson, the mayor of Bettendorf. Along the way Mr. Bush passed a group of about 100 protesters who waved signs saying "Iraqi Lives Are Precious, Too" and "Drop Bush Not Bombs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On a tour of Sears Manufacturing in Davenport, Iowa, President Bush took a seat yesterday in a new tractor chair. Mr. Bush campaigned in Davenport for Representative Jim Nussle, who is in a close race for re-election. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ;HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JIM NUSSLE (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); NUSSLE, JIM (REPR); BUMILLER, ELISABETH; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (90%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (53%) IOWA, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; IOWA; DAVENPORT (IOWA)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



466 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: German Rival, in Hard Race, Raises Specter of Immigrants 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
Germany's conservative opposition, trying to regain its lead in the opinion polls before national elections on Sunday, opened a new front today, contending that the government of Gerhard Schroder was undermining national security and the economy by letting in too many immigrants.
 Mr. Schroder has revived his own supporters and earned a small lead in the polls by running hard to the left. His rival, Edmund Stoiber, who has run a bland, centrist campaign, is making a last-minute lurch to the right, trying to win back his own voters in a volatile climate. 
 In a television interview this morning, Mr. Stoiber said he would throw out a government reform passed earlier this year intended to open Germany to qualified immigrants with needed skills.
"When there are more than four million jobless," Mr. Stoiber said, "then it is irresponsible to open up the job market to everyone."
Mr. Stoiber's spokesman on police and immigration matters, Gunther Beckstein, said today that the government was hurting domestic security and compromising Germany's economic future with its immigration policy.
Mr. Beckstein cited a Greens politician who called the new law a step toward making Germany "a modern, multicultural land of immigration."
Mr. Beckstein said, "That is exactly what we don't want."
Instead, Germany must integrate the 7.3 million foreigners who live here and find work for the more than four million Germans who do not have jobs, Mr. Beckstein said. He called for the deportation of any foreigner sentenced to prison for more than two years and for limits on the residence permits of immigrants on welfare.
Mr. Schroder called the new conservative strategy a sign of "helplessness and aggressiveness," adding, "It is a desperate attempt to find a topic with which one can arouse emotions, but I think the public will see through it."
Mr. Schroder has revived his chances to win re-election through his handling of Germany's disastrous floods and his sharp message of opposition to a new, American-led war in Iraq.
His campaign to preserve the peace -- in open and pungent opposition to the Bush administration -- has won him support, while making Mr. Stoiber seem wishy-washy, unwilling to support the Americans but also unwilling to rule out a war in Iraq.
While many had thought that Mr. Stoiber would run to the right, he had instead sounded moderate on social issues while hammering hard at the poor state of Germany's economy. But Mr. Schroder has argued that unemployment and low growth are a result of global factors beyond his control -- not his inability to challenge his union supporters and make the labor market more flexible.
In early August, polls indicated, Mr. Stoiber's conservatives were between five and seven percentage points ahead of Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats, who govern in coalition with the Greens. Now, with the vote on Sunday, Mr. Schroder has opened a small lead, and has the momentum.
He has sought to capitalize on his own popularity and that of his foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, a Green, by trying to run as a kind of personality ticket, highly unusual in a parliamentary democracy. Mr. Fischer, an elfin former radical, is Germany's most popular politician, with an approval rating of more than 80 percent in the polls, and both men are more popular than their own parties.
So on Sunday evening, Mr. Schroder held an unusual joint rally in downtown Berlin with Mr. Fischer, under a giant red and green poster that read, in English: "Go on!" -- to another term with what is called his red-green coaliton.
"I want this foreign secretary and no one else," Mr. Schroder said, pointing to Mr. Fischer. The foreign secretary then returned the favor, saying: "I do not want to become chancellor. I want Gerhard Schroder to be the next chancellor."
But as the immigration question returned to the political agenda, Deutsche Bank said Germany's population could fall from 82 million to 65 million in 50 years -- with the work force shrinking by 27 percent, to 30 million by 2040 -- unless politicians allow more immigration and provide incentives to women to combine a career with child-rearing. About 500,000 immigrants a year would be needed to prevent a decline in the working-age population, the bank said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); TRENDS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRISONS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); DEPORTATION (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SENTENCING (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (50%) LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%) BECKSTEIN, GUNTHER; STOIBER, EDMUND; ERLANGER, STEVEN; SCHRODER, GERHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002 



467 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: McCall on the Budget 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You suggest (editorial, Sept. 12) that the New York State budget, proposed by the governor and passed by the Legislature, is "approved" by the comptroller. In fact, the comptroller simply must make a determination -- only if the budget is late and only to release legislators' paychecks -- that the Legislature has technically passed a budget. 
 By law, this narrow definition does not involve approval or certification or even determining whether it is a good or bad budget. 
 An on-time budget requires absolutely no action by the comptroller.
I have proposed reforms to the broken budget process to make it more responsive to taxpayers' needs. I've strongly and consistently criticized the closed budget process and the final product, which this year includes more than $4 billion in fiscal gimmicks. 
We have not had an on-time budget for 18 years. During the last eight years of fiscal surpluses and economic prosperity, Gov. George E. Pataki has failed to put our fiscal house in order. We've seen late budgets, bad budgets, increased debt and critical problems left unresolved. 
We need real reform, hard work, commitment and the ability to bring people together. That's what I have done. That's what I will do.

H. CARL MCCALL
New York, Sept. 17, 2002

The writer is state comptroller and the Democratic candidate for governor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS 

PERSON: MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



468 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Not All Sunshine for Teensy Set's Troubadour 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
You almost don't want to meet Raffi in person. You want to preserve the vision of the man you know only as a voice, lulling squirmy children in the back seat of the car with original folk songs like "One Light, One Sun," or standards with a twist like "This Little Light of Mine."
 You don't want to realize that the Canadian singer, 53, in real life is a considerably darker, far more complex person -- as most adults are. That he has no children of his own who can laugh along with his rendition of "Apples and Bananas" or fall asleep to his lullabies. That he is divorced from his high school sweetheart -- whose mother brought him in to sing at her nursery school, which started his career. That when he tried to make a grown-up record it did not sell very well. Even that he has been proselytizing about saving the environment. 
 But because Raffi had not made a record in seven years, one must deal with such grown-up questions as the man behind the voice. Now that he has returned to familiar ground with a new children's album, "Let's Play!" and is on tour with a stop at Town Hall in New York on Saturday, Raffi talked about this moment in his career. 
"I am blossoming," he said in an interview at a Manhattan hotel. "I feel like I'm in a really good creative, potent period of my life in my writing, in my conceptual ideas." 
In the 25 years that he has been writing and recording, Raffi has produced 13 records and three concert videos and is widely credited with setting a new standard for children's music. His albums in North America range from gold to triple platinum and have sold more than 12 million copies. "Raffi is the grand master," said Jim Powers, owner of the Chicago-based independent rock label Minty Fresh, which recently spun off Mini Fresh, a label for children. "His records have held up incredibly well over time."
While some musicians have dismissed Raffi's music as condescending, others say its simplicity and repetition are appropriate for his audience: children under 5. 
"It's a warmth he has, a sense of fun," said Moira McCormick, who has covered children's audio for Billboard and other publications for the last decade. "There is something extremely endearing about his vocal style, his stage presence."
With big eyes like marbles, a small smile and a banana pin on his lapel in honor of his song "Bananaphone," Raffi talks of the importance of play and saving the environment with the earnestness of someone untouched by the world's complexity or cynicism. He calls the seven people who work with him "team troubadour" and their cause "child-honoring." 
He defined this cause as "both a way of being in the world and a way of looking at the world." He added: "We're not talking about a child-centered society. We're talking about honoring our young, which starts with seeing who they are."
His new album, distributed by Rounder Records, includes classics like "Yellow Submarine, "What a Wonderful World" and "The Eensy Weensy Spider" as well as new songs by Raffi like "Swing" and "Roots and Shoots Everywhere." 
Where has he been for the last seven years? "You live, you grow, you develop, you mature," he said. 
His parents died in 1995, within 12 hours of each other on the same day, his mother of abdominal cancer, his father apparently of grief. "It was an astonishing exit for two remarkable lives," he said. "I knew one chapter of my life had come to a close." He wrote his autobiography (printed on chlorine-free paper), "The Life of a Children's Troubadour" (Homeland Press: 1999) and went on a book tour. And he began to get involved in children's environmental health issues, attending scientific conferences, reading literature on the subject, studying infants' brain development. "I'm fascinated by children and how they grow," he said.
In his autobiography, Raffi refers to his own "melancholy" childhood, growing up in fear of his demanding parents. "There was so much I was not doing right or hearing right," he writes. "Always something that made me wrong in my parents' view."
This experience played out as depression in adulthood. In his memoir, Raffi discusses mood swings that made him wonder if he was manic-depressive. "Like my father, I had the habit of seeing what was wrong or missing in things at first glance," he writes. He describes himself as insecure yet controlling and intolerant of other people -- tendencies that dissipated with spiritual counseling.
"I was so absorbed with my role in the limelight and so accustomed to being the center of attention that it was often hard to find balance offstage, at work or at home," he writes. "It was hard for me to be in a conversation that didn't revolve around me or my work."
On his new album, Raffi said he wanted to include songs that would influence policymakers, thus "It Takes a Village," which the CD's liner notes say was "inspired by Dr. Fraser Mustard" -- an expert in early childhood development -- and is based on an old African proverb.
Raffi said the proceeds from the 2001 CD "Country Goes Raffi" (Rounder), a tribute album with Raffi favorites sung by country greats, went to the Partnership for Children's Environmental Health. Speaking of the financial rewards of his career, he said: "It's given me more than what I need. Enough that it's wonderful and not too much."
To address the situation in the Middle East, Raffi recently wrote "Salaam Shalom," available at turnthisworldaround.org. He said the song took him back to his roots. He was born Raffi Cavoukian in Cairo. His Armenian parents escaped the massacre of Armenians in Ottoman Turkey in 1915. After living in Jerusalem and Syria, they emigrated to Toronto in 1958, where Raffi sang in his church choir, got his first guitar and became obsessed with Bob Dylan. "Dylan rocked my world when I was young," he said.
He was inspired by the music of Woody Guthrie's "Songs to Grow On," and of the group the Babysitters. And he realized there wasn't much for preschoolers in the bins at record stores. The mother of Deborah Joan Pike, his wife to be, invited him to sing at her nursery school. As Raffi recounted the story, "A children's entertainment angel said: 'Here is this folk singer. Maybe he needs to direct his music to another audience.' " The singer added, "I feel it's been a calling." His first album, released in 1976, was "Singable Songs for the Very Young." 
Raffi described his joy at seeing children on the ferry from Vancouver to his home on Mayne Island, British Columbia. "Just seeing their dazzling light: 1-, 2-, 3-, 4-year-olds,' " he said. "It's marvelous." Why didn't he ever have any children of his own? "Neither Deb nor I had any interest," he said. "Having kids isn't a prerequisite. It's just one of those things."
His one attempt at a record for grown-ups, "Evergreen, Everblue" (Rounder), released in 1990, was a folk album aimed at educating people about ecology. "That sort of thing doesn't necessarily sell boatloads," Ms. McCormick of Billboard said.
But Raffi said he returned to children's music, not out of economic necessity, but because it still enthralls him. "I'm told there are few who can do this well," he said. "If that's the case, I'm lucky this work found me and that I've grown in it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Raffi, on screen, at a Special Session on Children concert at the United Nations in May. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GENRES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



469 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Barrick to Cut Gold Hedging and Build 4 More Mines 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Barrick Gold, once the gold industry's leading proponent of hedging as a protection against falling prices for metal, said today that it would reduce its forward sales position -- the amount of gold still in the ground that it has already sold for future delivery -- by one-third.
 Right now, Barrick, which is based in Toronto, has outstanding contracts to deliver 17.9 million ounces, or 22 percent of its current reserves. The company said today that it would cut that figure to 12 million ounces, or 15 percent of reserves, by the end of 2003. The use of other hedging devices, like options and variable-price sales contracts, will also be cut, the company said. 
 The company also outlined plans to invest $2 billion over the next five years to build four mines to tap ore deposits in Peru, Argentina and Australia, stepping up its gold output 1.2 million ounces a year, to reach 6.9 million ounces in 2006.
The world's biggest gold producer, Newmont Mining of Denver, expects to sell 7.5 million ounces this year.
Earlier this year, Barrick said that it planned to sell half its 2002 gold output on the spot market, the first time in 14 years that it has not hedged its entire production.
Victor Flores, an analyst at HSBC Securities in New York, said: "Clearly, the market has been more favorable to the unhedged producers. That has not been lost on Barrick." 
Randall Oliphant, Barrick's president, said in a telephone interview, "We see no compelling reason to be adding to our hedge position." He cited low interest rates, which mean lower premiums on forward sales, as well as Barrick's strong financial position and an improved outlook for the price of gold. Gold closed today at $318.20 an ounce, up from last year's average of $271, the lowest since 1978.
Barrick will give priority to the Alto Chicama deposit in Peru, discovered earlier this year. Production is scheduled to start in 2005, with annual output of 500,000 ounces at a cost of $130 an ounce. If the gold price averages $325 an ounce, the expansion plan will double Barrick's profits by 2006, the company predicted. "We're laying out numbers that we can be held accountable for," Mr. Oliphant said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MINING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); SPOT MARKET (78%); FUTURES (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) GOLD; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; PRODUCTION; MINES AND MINING 

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP (92%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BARRICK GOLD CORP 

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (92%); ABX (NYSE) (92%); NEM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%) SIC1041 GOLD ORES; 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) ARGENTINA (79%); CANADA (72%); UNITED STATES (53%) PERU; ARGENTINA; AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



470 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
IndustrialComplex Available for $1

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

DATELINE: ELKHART, Ind. 

 BODY:
It is no secret that the jobs are leaving this city. Every assembly line worker, machinist and scientist could see it coming four years ago, when the pharmaceutical company Bayer, which once employed 3,000 people here, sold an undeveloped 400 acres near the airport that it had held in reserve for decades as a new headquarters site.
 "The community has adjusted and is still adjusting to that," said David L. Miller, the mayor of Elkhart. 
 It is what Bayer might leave behind that gnaws at Elkhart, a small industrial community near South Bend that bills itself as the city with a heart and is best known for building Coachmen, Monaco Coach and Forest River motor homes.
As the company moves production to Germany and Lerma, Mexico, it has no further use for its million-square-foot complex of assembly lines, offices, laboratories and warehouses built in 1938, with additions constructed as late as the 1970's. The complex is designed around production lines for water-soluble dyspepsia salves and vitamin tablets dosed with sugar and carved with the inexact bas-relief of Flintstones characters to enhance their appeal to children. Selling it is not feasible, the company has decided. 
"Not everybody and their brother needs a million square feet," said Joe W. Martin, a senior vice president of Bayer Diagnostics responsible for a business unit that makes diabetes tests and plans to remain here. There are 750 employees on the campus now.
So, Bayer has joined forces with several chambers of commerce and economic development groups to turn the situation into a public relations campaign with a simple message. To a buyer that will bring jobs to town, as long as they are not pharmaceutical industry jobs, the company will sell the whole complex for one dollar.
"Like any piece of real estate, it was built for a specific purpose, and it will probably need to go through a metamorphosis, and that's going to require an investment," said James C. Skillen, a vice president of Cressy & Everett, a local brokerage affiliated with the national real estate services firm Grubb & Ellis. Mr. Skillen is the broker of record for Bayer.
"Usually in a real estate transaction, the highest bidder comes forward and everybody goes away happy," he said. "This is not about money. This is about finding a company that is willing to use it." 
Inside the complex, there are 43,000 square feet of laboratory space, much of which resembles a high school chemistry classroom circa 1978. Overhead vents like triple-armed ceiling-mounted vacuum cleaners hang above big black countertops. The occasional personal computer offers a counterpoint to the humdrum tools of basic science, cabinets full of glass beakers, and an egg timer here and there. 
These sealed spaces spill onto scuffed packing rooms with wide doorways leading to more of the same, the sprawl broken only by the odd metal cage or cramped machine shop. There is a full cafeteria with hot food service; executive quarters with a business, engineering and law library; marketing offices; and a wood-paneled boardroom.
A self-contained energy production complex, with redundant heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems, is joined to this building. The vast open rooms of gears and wheels and tanks resemble the inside of a submarine, only with daylight streaming in. Engineers watch the global fuel markets and switch between burning natural gas and No. 6 fuel oil when prices change. Two locomotive engines are used to generate a little energy at peak-use hours to reduce the cost of energy from the utility company.
"Any way you run the numbers, it starts costing Bayer something to maintain the building," Mr. Skillen said. 
Demolishing the buildings, by Bayer's estimate, would cost $20 million. Because the complex has not changed hands in its 64 years of existence, no comprehensive environmental study has been performed to estimate cleanup costs, though the two-million-gallon fuel oil tanks and the roomful of locomotive engines suggest that those might be formidable. Bayer officials said they had not commissioned an environmental study.
The complex, on 27 acres of a 55-acre parcel, cost Bayer $372,000 in property taxes in 2001, according to the company; the tax bill for the larger parcel was $479,000, roughly 1 percent of the budget of Elkhart County, according to the county treasurer.
Mr. Skillen advised Bayer that selling it could take five years -- with maintenance costing as much as $7 million a year during that time -- and that it might bring as much as $12 million. Such a sale would lose any possibility of profit after the property had been on the market for about a year and a half, he said.
As the economy has slowed and as the value of residential properties rises, many corporations are having trouble disposing of commercial real estate assets that became liabilities when plans or market conditions shifted. In Hillsboro, Ore., for example, Komatsu Metals is quietly trying to sell an industrial complex at a price significantly below the $200 million that it cost to build. Honeywell is trying to sell obsolete properties across the country into a buyer's market.
The specter of a closed industrial complex looms particularly large here. Fifteen miles away in downtown South Bend, some factories operated by Studebaker have sat crumbling on 120 acres since the company shut down in 1963. Ten miles away, the City of Mishawaka paid to demolish 58 buildings, 1.7 million square feet of industrial space in all, covering 43 acres that Uniroyal abandoned on April 1, 1997.
Local officials are pressing Bayer to help them fill the vacancy. Mr. Miller, the mayor, traveled to Bayer's headquarters in Leverkusen, Germany, to ask the company to donate the property and pay the city tens of millions of dollars to have it converted for use by another company. Bayer declined, but told the mayor it would give the city the building without money; he declined that.
The amount necessary to convert and modernize the building is anybody's guess, and that is the primary obstacle to a sale. Brokers here say that there is a glut of industrial space built much more recently, in the 1970's, and that banks are offering better amortization terms for purchases of newer properties.
Mr. Martin, the manager of the Bayer unit remaining here, said that the company had set aside money for demolition. Bayer has set a one-year deadline on the offer to sell the property for a dollar, but no agreement has been reached on what will happen if the deadline expires.
Simply transferring ownership is no panacea, not at this price, said John K. Letherman, a county councilman and a partner in the commercial real estate firm FM Stone Commercial. He points to a multistory, 150,000-square-foot industrial building at the corner of Michigan Street and West Beardsley Avenue as an example of what can happen when industrial properties change hands at an extremely low capitalization. This downtown building, he said, like several others, has been converted to multitenant use, but the owners have not paid taxes for years, and the county has not condemned the building because it could not sell it at auction.
Ross C. Miller, the managing partner of FM Stone, noted that there was no market in Elkhart for the conversion of industrial properties to loft space, a residential trend that has worked in cities like New York and Chicago in the last decade.
The deteriorating buildings and the lack of demand for modern urban residential developments are intertwined, because they make this place unattractive to businesses seeking to relocate and even to natives of Elkhart, Mr. Letherman said.
"If I put my public official hat on, and I have one, I say Bayer ought to tear down that thing before they leave," he said. "I know the chamber of commerce is all excited about selling it for a dollar. I look down the road and I see something that's bought by somebody cheap and undercapitalized, and they'll run it into the ground and eventually stop paying taxes on it."
Mayor Miller said he was optimistic the company would find a buyer.
"I'm just grateful that they didn't padlock the building and walk away from it," he said, "because that's happened so often."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bayer is phasing out this million-square-foot complex of assembly lines; offices, including a wood-paneled boardroom; laboratories; and warehouses built in 1938, and additions constructed as late as the 1970's. (Grubb & Ellis/Bayer) Map of Indiana highlighting Elkhart. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); MOTOR HOME MFG (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); MAYORS (76%); IN VITRO DIAGNOSTICS MFG (74%); CHILDREN (74%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); DIABETES TESTING (65%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (52%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (52%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); DIABETES (50%) FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR 

COMPANY: BAYER AG (94%); BAYER DIAGNOSTICS SA (54%); GRUBB & ELLIS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BAYER AG 

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (94%); BAY (MCE) (94%); BAY (BIT) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3821 LABORATORY APPARATUS & FURNITURE (54%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (71%) ELKHART (IND)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



471 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 415 words

PERSON: LaWanda Page 

HEADLINE: LaWanda Page, 81, the Aunt On TV's 'Sanford and Son' 

BYLINE:  By MEL WATKINS 

 BODY:
LaWanda Page, the acid-tongued comedienne who, as the cantankerous Aunt Esther, traded barbs with Redd Foxx on the 1970's sitcom "Sanford and Son," died on Saturday in Los Angeles. She was 81.
 The cause was complications of diabetes, The Associated Press reported. 
 Ms. Page was a veteran of the black circuit of theaters and nightclubs. She began as a dancer, added a fire-swallowing bit (billed as the "Bronze Goddess of Fire") and moved gradually into skit and stand-up comedy on the so-called Midwestern "chitlin circuit." Most of those clubs, she later said, were dumps, the kind of places "where if you ain't home by 9 o'clock you can be declared legally dead." 
Her big break came when she was tapped for a supporting role in the second season of Norman Lear's "Sanford and Son," which starred Foxx, a friend from comedy club days, as Fred Sanford, an eccentric and irascible junk dealer in the Watts section of Los Angeles. As the ungainly, wisecracking, Bible-toting sister of Sanford's late wife, Elizabeth, she quickly became one of the show's most popular characters. 
Her character, Aunt Esther, took her share of zingers from Foxx and other cast members -- Sanford's friend Grady once quipped, "Nice having her around, she makes the junk look so pretty." But Aunt Esther usually responded with equally stinging rejoinders. "Watch it, sucker!" her favorite catch phrase, was followed by a spate of sharp-tongued invective. The exchanges between her and Sanford were among the weekly highlights. "Sanford and Son," ran from 1972 to 1977 on NBC and remained one of television's top rated shows, inspiring several spinoffs in which she also appeared.
Ms. Page was born in Cleveland on Oct. 19, 1920, and began her dancing career at age 15. After years on the club circuit with comedians like Foxx and Richard Pryor, Ms. Page moved to Los Angeles in the 1960's and joined the comedy group Skillet, Leroy & Co. She soon developed and honed her trademark feisty comic approach -- more shrill but still reminiscent of Moms Mabley's homespun wit. ("Honey, that old man couldn't keep no kinda job. That's the only man I know that ever went to the unemployment office and lost his place in line.") 
She is survived by a daughter, Clara Johnson, of Los Angeles.
Throughout the 1970's and 80's, Ms. Page played cameo roles in a few feature films and made guest appearances on talk shows and sitcoms. Offstage, she was an advocate for equal opportunities and better pay for black performers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: LaWanda Page in 1977. (NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); DANCERS (76%); FILM (71%); DIABETES (57%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PAGE, LAWANDA; WATKINS, MEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Motion Pictures 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



472 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Schools Adapt Old Lesson: Share and Share Alike 

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS 

 BODY:
Building schools is the largest financial commitment most communities make.
 But in a sputtering economy, raising money from taxpayers for schools can be a challenge. That is one reason why more schools, particularly in New York City, are sharing buildings, either with other schools or with noneducational enterprises. 
 The popularity of charter schools and of smaller schools with specific focuses has also created a need for space and a resulting willingness to be flexible. For those schools, which can start up in a matter of months, lack of time and money make the building of a dedicated new building impossible. 
In the Bronx, 10 new specialized schools opened this school year -- seven of them within the walls of larger public high schools, like Christopher Columbus and Evander Childs. 
Three other new schools have space on City University of New York campuses -- Lehman, City and York Colleges, sharing common spaces like the library and gymnasium. 
When high schools are on college campuses, there can be synergies. In addition to being able to take Advanced Placement classes taught by high school teachers, students at the High School of American Studies at Lehman College have the option of taking take actual college courses.
In Jamaica, Queens, construction began in May 2001 on a $100 million building that will house both the Police Athletic League Community Center and another new specialized school, the High School for Law Enforcement and Public Safety, which is expected to attract students interested in a career in law enforcement.
In Craryville, N.Y., in Columbia County, the Taconic Hills Central School serves as something of a community center, with an auditorium that opens into an amphitheater for concerts, and gyms and a weight room and aquatic center that anyone can pay to use.
"Shared space is a no-brainer, financially and also educationally," said Jon Snyder, the dean of the Bank Street Graduate School of Education in Manhattan. "Since children stopped learning at the feet of their parents, educators have been trying to address the separation between school and the real world." Placing a school in an environment where different generations and professions come into contact offers an opportunity to bridge that gap, he said. 
"But," he added pointedly, "it can all fall apart in the practicalities. It's like two families buying one house together. Logistically, it's just a big challenge." 
Myra Luftman, principal of the High School of American Studies, at Lehman College, agreed. "It takes a lot of thought, compromise, flexibility and a constant redesigning of your own perceptions," she said. 
In a figurative sense, four families bought a house together at 600 East Sixth Street. Three schools (Public School 64, the Earth School and Tompkins Square Middle School) coexist in the building with the New York City Police Department's School Safety Division, which uses 20 classrooms as its headquarters. 
Many parents are comforted by the presence of uniformed police officers in the school. But some have reservations.
"It's a building full of kids," said Trishka Marek, the mother of an eighth grader, "and there are grown men there who spit and swear and carry guns." 
The police agency used to be the sole occupant of the third floor, but it began to share the floor during the last school year, when the Tompkins Square Middle School opened. The police also use a parking lot that some parents, including Mrs. Marek, feel is needed for playground space. 
The police agency is in the process of relocating some of its staff to 110 Livingston Street in Brooklyn, the school system's former main office, but as the school year approached, it found itself in a battle over how quickly it was relinquishing rooms. The disagreement was not settled until shortly before school opened. 
"There is always going to be a natural concern when you use classroom space for anything other than instruction, whether it's the police or parent groups," said Assistant Chief Demosthenes Long, the commanding officer at the site.
Even when a college and a high school are sharing space, there can be a clash of cultures. 
"It's difficult for a college to conceive of a high school to be on campus," said Mrs. Luftman of the High School of American Studies at Lehman College. "We do have to prove ourselves." 
There is sometimes a corporate component to these partnerships, as in the case at the Henry Ford Academy in Dearborn, Mich., a charter school that is a joint effort of the Wayne County Regional Education Service Agency, the Ford Motor Company and the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, on whose grounds the school sits. Many classes are taught in museum rooms and Ford employees give guest lectures, while the company offers internships to some students.
But how seamlessly can 400 students go to school alongside 1,200 adult workers? 
"Every now and then," said Cora Christmas, the principal, "we get a phone call that one of the kids has gone astray" on the 88-acre complex. But that is rare, she said, and the adult contact can help the children mature, in addition to adding a realistic element to their education. 
"If they can see that something they learn is making someone in the real world money," Mrs. Christmas said, "they'll listen."
Not all educators support the concept of shared space. Noreen Connell, the executive director of the Education Priorities Panel, a coalition of 24 civic organizations that monitors schools, said that something can be lost when too many concerns are yoked together under one roof. 
"Houses of worship have remained buildings by themselves and it may be because there is a cultural value in doing so," she said. "When you open a school up to so many uses, there's a symbolic dimension that you're bucking. People want buildings that are institutions of learning: they want to feel that the whole building is about learning. I mean, what could be next? A school on one side of the building and a Home Depot on the other?"
Off-Site Education Services, however, is grateful for any usable space it can get. The organization, part of the New York City Board of Education, runs 75 small public schools for troubled children, most of whom live in New York City. The schools, which educate 15 to 100 students each, are not in Board of Education space, but in drug treatment centers, housing projects and other nontraditional locations.
"When there is a need for education at a site," said Jerry Krantweiss, assistant principal of administration for Off-Site Educational Services, "we visit and make sure the space and equipment needs can meet the contractual needs" of the teachers' union. 
"We don't select the location," he added, "but we make sure it can accommodate a school." 
The process is always a negotiation. "When we set up a school in the projects," Mr. Krantweiss said, "not only do we have to deal with the Housing Authority, but we also deal with the local management of each building and the residents." 
At Bank Street, Mr. Snyder need look no further than his own institution, where the graduate school shares space with a nursery school and an elementary school. 
"Here we have a direct linkage and the same mission and it can still be a problem," Mr. Snyder said. "The children run around, they play on the elevator, and are they evil? No, but they can be a major inconvenience. We have to clean up the messes that kids make with the toilet paper and sit in chairs that are too small for us." 
That is why, in any circumstance, the only road to constructive coexistence, Mr. Snyder said, is preparation and attention to the details of life together. But with that rolling dialogue in place, shared space can work, bringing financial relief and real-world flavor to a school. 
"And one day," Mr. Snyder said, "wouldn't it be wonderful if schools could be combined with banks, medical facilities and public libraries?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kesha Nicks, a school safety officer, at the entrance to Public School 64 -- which shares space with two other schools, as well as with the Police Department agency in charge of school safety. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (88%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (72%); PARENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; CHARTER SCHOOLS 

PERSON: FUCHS, MAREK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



473 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: 300 Firms Competing to Help Remake Downtown 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
More than 300 architecture and planning firms, including those of the notable architects Philip Johnson and Robert A. M. Stern, have answered the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation's call for more innovative concepts for the World Trade Center site, rebuilding officials said yesterday.
 Most of the firms are seeking to be one of five participants in a new, four-week planning and design study, but rebuilding officials said some of the submissions that arrived by the deadline yesterday were answering two calls for consultants, one in urban design and the other in graphic arts. The 300 submissions are from firms on every continent except Antarctica, the officials said. 
Alexander Garvin, the vice president for planning, design and development at the corporation, said at a board meeting that a panel of six designers would narrow the field for the four-week study to 15 to 20 firms. 
The panel of judges comprises Toshiko Mori, the chairwoman of the department of architecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design; Eugenie L. Birch, the chairwoman of the department of city and regional planning at the University of Pennsylvania; Richard N. Swett, an architect, former congressman from New Hampshire and ambassador to Denmark during the Clinton administration; Kinshasha Holman Conwill, an arts and management consultant and former director of the Studio Museum in Harlem; Terence Riley, chief curator of the department of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art; and Michael Van Valkenburgh, a landscape architect and professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. 
A committee from the development corporation will make the final choice, picking as many as five teams for the study by early October. The urban design consultants also will be selected by a committee of development corporation representatives by early October. 
The teams will prepare several plans for the site and adjacent areas based on various requirements, including some with less office space and more residential and other space than were included in the original six designs created by Beyer Blinder Belle and Peterson Littenberg, the original architecture and planning firms hired by rebuilding officials.
The resulting designs will be used by rebuilding officials, Beyer Blinder Belle and Peterson Littenberg to develop three new plans for the site. Those plans are to made public by the end of the year, and a final plan will be developed from them by the spring of 2003. The contracts of firms whose initial plans are selected for further use may be extended. 
A report on the economy of Lower Manhattan was presented at the board meeting by McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm. 
McKinsey said its study showed that nearly half the 138,000 jobs that the Sept. 11 attack cost the area were not expected to return. More than 85 percent of the departed jobs were in the financial services industry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); VISUAL ARTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TERRORISM (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ARCHITECTURE 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%) LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD; JOHNSON, PHILIP; STERN, ROBERT A M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (79%); ANTARCTICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



474 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: The Transfer At Secaucus Edges Closer To Reality 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
The Secaucus Transfer, the long-awaited station that will connect 11 of the state's 12 commuter rail lines and shave minutes off commuting times to Midtown Manhattan for thousands of commuters, will be slowly phased in beginning next fall, New Jersey Transit officials said today.
 The station will for the first time allow riders from northern New Jersey and southern New York State to transfer to a stream of trains that will transport them in a breezy six minutes into Pennsylvania Station in Midtown. 
 It will also allow them to transfer to southbound trains to the Jersey Shore and Trenton. Those riders must now travel all the way into Hoboken, then take PATH trains to 33rd Street in Midtown or to Newark to connect with southbound trains. 
The $450 million project, a four-tiered station on the edge of the Meadowlands astride several of the rail lines, has been on the drawing board since the 1980's and under construction since 1995. 
It is nearly completed and had been scheduled to open this fall. But George D. Warrington, executive director of New Jersey Transit, said today that the agency would have to phase in the new service more slowly because any increase now in the number of passengers on trains headed into Midtown would create "unacceptable crowding conditions." 
He explained that the agency had experienced a steep increase in ridership since the World Trade Center attack and the destruction of the Lower Manhattan PATH station that had served 66,000 commuters daily. Many of those riders now take New Jersey Transit trains to Midtown, where their jobs have been temporarily relocated. 
Those lines heading into Manhattan are now operating at about 130 percent of capacity and cannot accommodate any of the increased ridership expected to result from full operation of the Secaucus Transfer, Mr. Warrington said. 
Consequently, he said, full use of the station will have to wait until early 2004, when the new PATH station in Lower Manhattan is expected to be completed, allowing the return of many companies to that part of the city.
The PATH station beneath the World Trade Center is being rebuilt with $544 million from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. It is scheduled to be finished by December 2003, said a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
At a board meeting of the transit agency today, Mr. Warrington said that starting next September, the agency would begin the phase-in with weekend service at the Secaucus Transfer for trains on the Main Line, Bergen Line and Pascack Valley Line, as well as the New Jersey Coast Line and Northeast Corridor Line. That phase-in will continue into January 2004, allowing the agency to calibrate service to the most efficient level once the PATH station is restored. 
That will also allow more time for the completion of a modernized signaling system that can dispatch more trains at shorter intervals from Secaucus through the tunnel into Manhattan. 
By opening up Bergen County and other locations to the north to the new service directly into Midtown and the Jersey Shore, James P. Fox, state commissioner of transportation and chairman of the New Jersey Transit board, said the agency was creating an "economic driver" for the county and other surrounding areas. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Work on the Secaucus Transfer, a $450 million four-tiered commuter rail station on the edge of the Meadowlands, will continue for another year. (Lara Solt for The New York Times) Map of Secaucus highlighting the Secaucus Transfer: The Secaucus Transfer will connect 11 commuter lines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%) RAILROADS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); PENNSYLVANIA STATION (NYC) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY; SECAUCUS (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



475 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Production Falls For First Time in 8 Months 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Industry, the sector of the economy hardest hit by last year's recession, stumbled in August, the Federal Reserve reported today, with production falling for the first time in eight months. 
 While the report disappointed economists, most viewed the situation as temporary rather than a sign that the economy is sliding back into recession. 
 Turning in its worst performance this year, output at factories, utilities and mines fell 0.3 percent in August from July. 
Much of the weakness came from a 2.5 percent drop in output at gas and electric utilities, something economists did not consider particularly worrisome because the figures tend to bounce around from month to month because of weather changes. 
At factories, production dipped 0.1 percent in August as makers of cars and automotive parts cut back production, after increasing output in June and July. Production at mines rose 0.8 percent last month. 
David Huether, chief economist at the National Association of Manufacturers, called the decline in industrial production last month a "speed bump" after three months of brisk growth in which industrial output rose an average of 0.5 percent. 
"The manufacturing recovery will continue to run on less-than-all cylinders," Mr. Huether said, "until a sustained recovery in business investment takes hold in 2003." 
One big reason economists remain optimistic that neither the national economy nor manufacturing will backslide into recession is because consumers, whose spending accounts for two-thirds of economic activity, have been holding up amid the economic turbulence. 
The decreases in overall industrial output and in factory production in August were the first declines for each category since December, when the economy was trying to claw its way out of a recession. 
Last month, autos and parts, home electronics, appliances, furniture and carpeting, and communications equipment all posted drops in production. The declines outweighed gains elsewhere, including in semiconductors; primary metals, the category including steel; industrial machinery; and electrical equipment. 
On a more positive note, industrial production in July rose 0.4 percent, revised figures show. That was twice as fast as the Fed first estimated. For the 12 months ended in August, industrial output is up 0.4 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Industrial Production"Index of total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeAug.: -0.3%July: +0.4June: +0.6 Graph tracks changes from March 2001 through August 2002. (Source: Federal Reserve) Chart: "Capacity Utilization"Total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. Operating RatesAug.: 76.0%July: 76.2June: 76.0 Graph tracks rates from March 2001 through August 2002. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (56%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



476 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Drop in Overseas Sales Hurts Oracle

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Blaming lower-than-expected sales in Europe and Asia, the Oracle Corporation reported first-quarter software sales today that were on the low end of earlier projections.
 The company also had a drop in operating margins -- the ratio of a company's profits to the cost of producing and marketing its goods. 
 Even so, Oracle met Wall Street's projection that it would earn 7 cents a share in the quarter.
Oracle, a maker of databases and other programs that companies use to organize and automate their business, said that while it expected sales to improve gradually in the second and third quarters, the growth would be slower than previously estimated. 
Jeffrey O. Henley, the chief financial officer, said he continued to believe that the economy in the United States had bottomed out, but that the company's sales force was caught off guard by a sudden drop in demand from overseas. He noted that "for the first time," the international market was slower than the domestic one.
"Our international guys are scratching their heads and saying they're not sure what's going on," he said. "Maybe there's a more fundamental problem there than any of us have clearly understood yet."
Oracle reported that its first-quarter revenue was $2.03 billion, down more than 10 percent from $2.27 billion in the quarter a year ago. Profits excluding a charge associated with the company's investment in Liberate Technologies were $386 million, or 7 cents a share.
The company lagged in sales of new software licenses, a fundamental measure of Oracle's fiscal health. Sales of new software licenses for the quarter were $549 million, down 23 percent from the quarter last year -- and down 52 percent from the last quarter of last year -- and lower than the $560 million to $570 million Wall Street analysts expected.
Before the report, shares of Oracle closed at $9.03, down 25 cents. They fell as low as $8.40 in after-hours trading. 
The company's operating margins were 28.6 percent, compared with 33.1 percent in the first quarter of last year, said Mark R. Murphy, an analyst with the First Albany Corporation, who called the dropoff "disconcerting." He said that "the trend in operating margins could become a big issue."
Robert B. Austrian, an analyst with Banc of America Securities, said the sales decline in general appeared to be more related to the larger economy than specific to Oracle, and he said that Oracle appeared to be performing well under the circumstances. But he also said that the operating margins might become more significant if sales did not improve, because Oracle, like other technology businesses, had already made a lot of cutbacks and cannot cut costs much further. 
"Companies are as lean and mean as is practical," Mr. Austrian said. "You might read in that that the days of expanding margins on lower revenue are behind us."
Mr. Henley appeared to affirm this point, saying that until sales rebound considerably, he does not see how the company can meet its earlier objective of operating margins of 40 percent. 
Oracle has continued to try to cut costs, partly through reducing the number of workers. The company said it lost about 600 employees during the first quarter, because of attrition and layoffs. Mr. Henley said the current 41,500 employees could be reduced another 500 to 600 next quarter, partly through layoffs, mostly in Europe.
Mr. Henley projected that in Oracle's second quarter the company would have earnings of 8 cents to 9 cents a share, compared with the consensus projection of 9 cents a share from Wall Street analysts. He said that second-quarter revenue would be down 4 to 7 percent from the quarter a year ago.
Mr. Murphy of First Albany said the quarter represented "decent execution in a tough environment." But, the analyst said, there is "nothing to suggest a rebound" in information technology spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FORCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (54%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (96%); GLEACHER & CO INC (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); LIBERATE TECHNOLOGIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORACLE CORP 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (96%); GLCH (NASDAQ) (63%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



477 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
2 Key Indexes Drop to Lowest Levels Since Early August

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped to their lowest levels since early August yesterday as more weak economic reports drove stocks and interest rates lower.
 Stocks fell after the Federal Reserve said that industrial production fell a surprising 0.3 percent last month, the first decline in eight months and below the Wall Street forecast of an increase of 0.1 percent. 
 "The solid pace of recovery in factory output that had been evident during the first half of the year seems to have stalled," said David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley. "This reflects the fact that inventory rebuilding is largely behind us, and manufacturers and retailers are cautious about prospects for demand strength going forward." 
On the anniversary of the market's reopening after last year's terrorist attack, the Dow dropped 172.63 points, or 2.1 percent, to 8,207.55. It was the Dow's lowest close since Aug. 5 and barely 500 points above its four-year low on July 23.
The S.& P. 500 index fell 17.58 points, or 2 percent, to 873.52, its lowest close since Aug. 6 and 76 points above its five-year low, also on July 23.
The Nasdaq composite index dropped 15.94 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,259.94. This index dipped as low as 1,251 on Sept. 5.
In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 25/32, to 104 17/32 as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 3.82 percent in late afternoon trading, from 3.91 percent Monday. 
That is the lowest yield on a Treasury security with a 10-year maturity since 1963. The fall from 4 percent a week ago should push mortgage interest rates even lower.
Declining interest rates have encouraged Americans to buy houses and cars and have been a positive force on the economy. But investors are yet to be convinced that the economic recovery, which many analysts believe began late last year, will be strong enough to assure a rebound in corporate earnings.
McDonald's, a component of the Dow industrials, provided a sign of possible consumer weakness yesterday, saying sales in the United States and Europe were lower than it had expected. It said third-quarter profits would slip to 38 cents a share, shy of the Wall Street forecast of 42 cents a share. MacDonald's stock fell $2.78, or 12.8 percent, to $18.91, and accounted for about 19 points of the Dow's decline.
Other bad news came from Charles Schwab, the discount brokerage firm. It said it was cutting about 10 percent of its work force because of a decline in trading volume. The stock dropped 60 cents, or 6.1 percent, to $9.17.
Lucent Technologies, the nation's largest maker of communications equipment, traded below $1 a share for the first time. On Friday, the company said that it would continue to eliminate jobs as its sales plunge. The stock closed at $1, down 7 cents, or 6.5 percent.
After the market closed, J. P. Morgan Chase provided more bad news on earnings, announcing that its third-quarter profit from operations would drop "well below" the 58 cents a share reported in the second quarter. During regular trading, J. P. Morgan stock dropped 16 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $21.55. The stock fell as low as $19.51 in after-hours trading.
Oracle also offered negative news after the close. Its earnings fell 33 percent in the quarter ended Aug. 31 from a year earlier. Sales dropped 10 percent. The stock fell as low as $8.44 in after-hours trading. During regular trading, the stock dropped 25 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $9.03.
Investors seem ready to sell on any negative economic news and to ignore any positive development. The futures contract for the S.& P. 500 index indicated that professional investors expected the stock market to open much higher yesterday morning, after the reports Monday night that Iraq had agreed to allow weapons inspectors to return.
But that rally, which sent all three major indexes up more than 1 percent in early trading, faded as soon as the Federal Reserve released the August industrial production data.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.871
High Rate: 1.660
Coupon Yield: 1.684
Low Rate: 1.620
Median Rate: 1.650
Total applied for: $47,014,133
Accepted: $20,774,055
Noncompetitive: $34,314

The four-week bills mature Oct. 17.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph compares yields from one month ago and yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LABOR FORCE (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); RETAILERS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); SCHW (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



478 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: California Power Failures Linked to Energy Companies 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Widespread power failures during California's energy crisis of 2000 and 2001 could have been avoided if five independent energy companies had not withheld electricity they were capable of producing, a study by state regulators said today.
 The investigation by the California Public Utilities Commission said the five companies -- Duke, Dynegy, Mirant, Reliant and AES/Williams -- had withheld power from their California plants. 
 This contributed to the "unconscionable, unjust and unreasonable electricity price spike that California experienced during the energy crisis," the report said.
The commission did not directly accuse the companies of deliberately trying to drive prices up. Officials said investigations were continuing into possible price manipulation and collusion among the companies. 
The commission said that the companies took plants off line for necessary maintenance and were subjected to sharp increases in natural gas prices but that they still had sufficient generating capacity to avoid all four days of blackouts in Southern California and 65 percent of the blackout hours in Northern California.
"On all but 2 of the 32 statewide blackout and service interruption days shown, the five biggest independent electricity generators did not supply well over 500 megawatts of power they could have generated," the study found.
A megawatt of electricity is roughly the amount needed to power 750 homes.
The generators responded that there were legitimate reasons for the service disruptions and that their plants were running as hard or harder during the crisis as before or since.
"California's merchant generators ran at historically high levels to power our state throughout the crisis," said Jan Smutny-Jones, executive director of the Independent Energy Producers, a trade group. "The average age of these plants is over 36 years old. Despite their age, California's power plants ran 88 percent harder in 2001 than they did in 1999, and some increased output as much as 206 percent to meet our state's energy needs, making up for decreased energy imports from the Northwest caused by a drought."
Company officials also said that some plants were taken off line to add equipment required by state environmental regulations. They also blamed the public utilities commission for ordering continued sales of electricity to Mexico at a time of power failures in San Diego.
The report looked at the 38 days from November 2000 through May 2001 when millions of Californians experienced large-scale blackouts and selective power failures. The blackouts were the first in California since World War II and caused thousands of businesses to close and interrupted power to homes, hospitals, schools, theaters and shopping malls.
Wholesale prices for power leaped to as high as $1,500 a megawatt-hour from $40 per megawatt-hour, causing electricity bills to jump, forcing two major utilities into bankruptcy and plunging the state into debt as it spent billions of dollars buying electricity on the deregulated market. The state entered into long-term energy contracts at the inflated prices of 2000-2001, one factor that has led to the state's $24 billion budget deficit.
The utility commission found that on each of the days when power was interrupted all of the five main electricity generators had capacity that went unused. For example, on May 8, 2001, there were two-hour blackouts caused by a shortage of 400 megawatts of power in Northern and Southern California. But Duke Energy had about 1,000 megawatts of available capacity that was not used that day, the commission report said. "Thus, Duke alone had more available and unused power than the total amount of power that was needed to avoid the blackout that day," it said.
Terry Francisco, a Duke spokesman, responded: "Duke's plants have run harder, broken down less and been available more than any other time during utility ownership and never more than during the crisis. Our capacity utilization during the crisis was among the highest in California among all the generators."
The report mentions the role of Enron Corporation only in passing, noting that federal officials had found that its energy trading strategies contributed to California's energy woes and might have been an effort to manipulate prices.
Enron, employing a variety of trading schemes known by such names as Death Star, Fat Boy and Get Shorty, tried to "game" the state's power grid to make quick trading profits, according to internal company documents.
"Thus, the potential for simultaneous withholding and gaming (including strategies not yet revealed) is very serious," the report stated, "and probably accounts for a large part of the rapid increase in costs in California during the crisis." 
An Enron spokesman, Eric Thode, said that company officials had not seen the report, but that Enron "continues to cooperate in the various investigations."
Frank Wolak, a professor of economics at Stanford University and chairman of the market surveillance committee for the state's power grid, said the utilities commission did not establish that the generators deliberately withheld power they were capable of producing. But he compared that task to an employer's proving that an employee was playing hooky when he called in sick.
"It sure looks suspicious," Mr. Wolak said, because the shortages led to huge increases in prices and profits. "But it comes down to a 'he said-she said' sort of story."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The state says power shortages in California were unnecessary. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); RETAILERS (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: DYNEGY INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (58%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION (58%) DUKE ENERGY CO; MIRANT CORP; RELIANT ENERGY INC; AES/WILLIAMS; DYNEGY INC; WILLIAMS COMPANIES 

TICKER: DYN (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (90%)

PERSON: ;BRODER, JOHN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



479 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE GULF REGION; 
Commander's Visit Part of Growing Role for Qatar

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: DOHA, Qatar, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
The commander of American forces in the Persian Gulf, Gen. Tommy R. Franks, arrived here today for talks about the rapidly expanding American military presence in this gulf state that is expected to play a key role in a war against Iraq. 
 Relations remain somewhat strained between the United States and neighboring Saudi Arabia, a fact that has benefited the hereditary ruler of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, in his assiduous courtship of the American military since assuming power seven years ago. 
 The meetings between the general and the emir, as Sheik Hamad is known, represent an affirmation of a new relationship that will allow the Bush administration virtually unfettered use of Al Udeid, the large airfield here, Qatari and American officials said. 
Al Udeid, a 15,000-foot airstrip about 20 miles west of the capital, was described by American officials as the longest in the Middle East. It provides for a wide range of military action, including bombing raids, air and ground surveillance, and air refueling, they said. 
The installation is capable of handling large numbers of fighters and transports, and includes warehouses and storage facilities that would give protection against chemical and biological warfare. 
There is nothing in writing to specify what the United States may or may not do from the base in the event of a war against Iraq, the officials said. But the emir, who is also the defense minister, views the United States as his country's ultimate protector and is unlikely to present any obstacles to the needs of the American military, the officials said. 
The Qatari foreign minister, Sheik Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani, a cousin of the emir, encouraged the United States last week to resolve the Iraqi situation peacefully but also indicated that it was up to Saddam Hussein, Iraq's leader, whether there was war. 
Also last week, General Franks announced that he would move about 600 officers, or about one-quarter of his staff, to Al Udeid Air Base in November for a war games exercise. About 2,000 American soldiers are on the base, down from a high of 4,000 during the war in Afghanistan, American officials said. 
The new complement of officers is likely to remain after the exercise in preparation for a war against Iraq, the Pentagon said. 
In coming to Qatar, General Franks is following in the footsteps of Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, who were here earlier this year during the Afghan war. They inspected Air Force operations at Al Udeid and spoke of the important role Qatar would play with the United States in the future. 
Something of a maverick in the Arab world, the 52-year-old emir has actively sought an American military presence, said Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, the former head of Central Command. 
The Qatari leader has been eager to protect his nation's natural gas reserves from potentially meddlesome neighbors, General Zinni said, and that desire for protection dovetailed with the desire of the United States in the late 1990's to "spread out our presence" in the region. 
In 1995, when the emir overthrew his father in a nonviolent palace coup, Qatar was considered little more than a spit of sand with glorious pearl diving. 
In his ensuing course of modernization, one of the emir's first moves was to develop, in concert with Exxon Mobil, the nation's vast quantities of natural gas. Qatar is now considered one of the world's largest producers. 
Other initiatives were meant to show that Qatar would not remain entirely inhibited by the conservative Wahabi strain of Islam that dominates life here. 
The emir started a satellite television channel, Al Jazeera, which is widely watched in the Arab world and beyond for its unrestrained reporting on Arab issues. It is Al Jazeera that has been a source of several tapes from Osama bin Laden. 
The emir also allowed the second of his three wives, Sheika Moza bint Nasser al-Misned, to head a foundation that has paid $750 million for Cornell University's medical school to open a branch campus in Doha. The first pre-med classes of the school began two weeks ago. 
Qatari women are allowed to drive cars and voted in municipal elections two years ago. But, paradoxically, Wahabi beliefs forbid the display of photographs of Sheika Moza, despite her prominent foundation role. 
Another part of the emir's modernization drive was to expand his country's military capacity, officials said. But with only about 8,000 soldiers in his army, and 12 Mirage fighter jets bought from the French, he needed help. 
That was where Washington came in. Immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks, the emir was warmly greeted at the White House, and he contributed to the firefighters fund in New York City. 
With 140,00 people -- one of the smallest indigenous populations in the world -- Qatar has a per capita gross domestic product of $110,000 -- compared with $10,000 for Saudi Arabia where the population is about 17 million, said Simon Henderson, a London-based consultant for Saudi Strategies. That makes the Qataris far richer than the Saudis, a fact that heats up historical rivalries, Mr. Henderson said. 
General Zinni said Qatar was in a central position in the Persian Gulf and described the air base was "phenomenal," with "a lot of capability." 
American officials said that General Franks signed a "statement of intent" with the Qataris in July 2001. Immediately after Sept. 11, the officials said, American planes began operating from the base for the first time. 
Though the operations were based on a handshake, as one official put it, the Qataris have not changed their minds. They are not standing in the way of whatever the Americans need to do in the coming months, another said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: U.S. military planes at Al Udeid, the air base in Qatar, last March. The Bush administration is said to enjoy virtually unfettered access to the base.; Gen. Tommy R. Franks will hold talks in Qatar about the expanding American military presence. (Associated Press) Map of Qatar highlighting Doha: Al Udeid Air Base, near Doha, Qatar, has a 15,000-foot airstrip. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); TERRORISM (67%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) THANI, HAMAD BIN KHALIFA AL- (EMIR); PERLEZ, JANE; FRANKS, TOMMY R (GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) QATAR (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ; QATAR; AL UDEID (QATAR); SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



480 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Rebel Wants Japan's Inventors To Get Some U.S.-Style Rewards

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Ordered to stop the scientific research he thought extremely promising, Shuji Nakamura hid the work from his superiors at a Japanese chemical company. He secretly obtained patents in the company's name.
 Dr. Nakamura's mission paid off: his inventions revolutionized the world of consumer electronics. One helped make possible an array of products, from flat-panel computer screens to video billboards to long-lasting, efficient flashlights. Another will make it possible to store 5 to 10 movies on a single DVD-like disk. 
 Dr. Nakamura has been celebrated in the United States as an innovative pioneer. But in Japan he is more controversial. After it was clear his inventions would make a lot of money, his bosses took them to market without additional compensation for him. So Dr. Nakamura sued the company, claiming that the patents were a result of his efforts and he should receive royalties.
His case points to striking differences in the ways the United States and Japan treat innovators.
In the United States, engineers and inventors often share in the corporate rewards from innovation, through employment contracts that specify royalties or other incentives like stock options. But in Japan, engineers and scientists are almost universally treated as "salarymen" who do not participate in corporate profits. Compensation for an invention is at the company's discretion and seldom amounts to more than $300.
Dr. Nakamura's suit is challenging many of Japan's basic assumptions about conformity in a culture where personal gain or greed, particularly among technical people, is still considered distasteful.
"This case will have a huge psychological impact on Japanese business," said Paul Saffo, a Silicon Valley technology consultant. "This goes to Japan's entrepreneurial soul."
If Dr. Nakamura wins, an avalanche of similar suits may follow from Japanese researchers who believe they have been denied fair compensation from their inventions.
"This will teach researchers and companies alike to negotiate and make explicit rights and compensation in advance," said Joichi Ito, president and chief executive of Neoteny Company, a Japanese investment firm. "This is great because it will help force technical people to think about business and companies to think about incentives."
Dr. Nakamura, who is now in Japan awaiting the court ruling, is scheduled to receive an innovation award in absentia for his research from The Economist magazine in San Francisco on Wednesday.
In an interview last week at the University of California in Santa Barbara, where Dr. Nakamura is director of the Center for Solid State Lighting and Displays, he said his case's becoming a cause celebre in Japan was an encouraging development.
"Everyone wants to change our system," Dr. Nakamura said. "The Japanese press likes me a lot but the problem is the Japanese government. It's very bureaucratic."
Dr. Nakamura has long been a rebel in Japan's technology world. Although he got the go-ahead to work on his invention, known as a blue- light-emitting diode, or L.E.D., from the former chairman of the company where he worked, Nichia Chemical Industries, the company's president and its engineering managers bitterly fought his efforts because his research was seen as a cash drain. 
In the late 1980's Dr. Nakamura was such a pariah in his company that he hid both his seminal scientific papers and his patent applications from his superiors, making applications by approaching a new member of the patent department. His company found out about their star researcher's breakthrough only after Nichia sales executives were contacted by researchers from large Japanese companies who wished to purchase the blue-light-emitting diodes that Dr. Nakamura had been specifically ordered not to explore. 
"They were furious with me because I was spending money in an area they believed we couldn't possibly compete in," he said. Officials of the company did not respond to requests for comment.
His subsequent invention, in 1996, was a blue-violet laser, an invention that this year will bring a dramatic advance in the capacity of DVD's,
Dr. Nakamura, 47, grew up on Shikoku, the smallest of Japan's four main islands. He received a master's degree in electronics engineering in 1979 from Tokushima University, which awarded him a doctorate in 1994 based on his work with light-emitting diodes. He then joined Nichia, one of the few companies of any size on Shikoku.
"My dream was to work for one of the big electronics companies like Sony or Panasonic," he said. However, because the cost of living was high in Tokyo, he instead took a job with Nichia, a virtually unknown chemical company near his home that was seeking to diversify.
He made electronic materials, like gallium arsenide, that Nichia tried to sell. But each time, Nichia fared poorly against big companies already in the materials business.
He then turned his efforts to designing less exotic L.E.D.'s, but he was forced to act as researcher, manufacturer and even salesman for the products, which were also being made by larger Japanese companies. Nichia was unable to find a market for the devices.
In 1989, Dr. Nakamura began pursuing the blue light. He said he was ultimately able to succeed in building the first blue L.E.D. in 1993 after he chose to work with an exotic material, gallium nitride, while most of his competitors were focusing on a competing material, zinc selinide.
His company had permitted him to study in the United States to obtain technical expertise and he returned to Japan and purchased a special furnace to help with his research. He modified the furnace and then began a laborious series of experiments.
He said that at the time, he was as much interested in attaining scientific recognition as he was in making a commercial blue L.E.D. Since so few people were experimenting with gallium nitride, it seemed to be an obvious candidate.
"It was easy to be the best in the world because there were only 10 people working with that material," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shuji Nakamura, a professor at the University of California, said his former company dissuaded him from pursuing inventions it thought would not make money. (Jeff Clark for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); PATENTS (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (78%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); LITIGATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); STOCK OPTIONS (67%) INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LABOR; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%) NICHIA CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES 

PERSON: NAKAMURA, SHUJI; MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



481 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Intends to End Incentive Plan On Pollution 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
New Jersey officials plan to end an air quality program introduced by former Gov. Christie Whitman that relies on economic incentives for polluters to reduce smog-forming emissions.
 The program allows companies to buy and sell rights to emit regulated pollutants -- an idea that the commissioner of environmental protection, Bradley M. Campbell, has questioned since he was appointed by Gov. James E. McGreevey in January. 
 Mr. Campbell called the program "an experiment that failed" and said today that the Department of Environmental Protection would issue a public notice of its intent to phase out the plan. The decision was first reported today in The Star-Ledger of Newark.
Mrs. Whitman has made market-based incentives a theme in her approach to environmental regulation, as governor of New Jersey and now as head of the federal Environmental Protection Agency. When approved for the post 19 months ago, she promised to "move beyond the command-and-control model" of environmental regulation.
But critics of the state emissions credit-trading program called on her shortly afterward to reject the program, which had not received final approval from the E.P.A. They complained that the program had not cut emissions in New Jersey but had merely shifted them from one source to another.
The state program, introduced in 1996, allows polluters that reduce emissions below federal clean air standards to reserve the unused portion of their allowance as credits. The credits can be used later or sold to other companies that want to exceed the standards. A spokesman for Mrs. Whitman, Joe Martyak, said today that as governor Mrs. Whitman had started "an innovative program" and that as recently as January 2001 it was praised by the Clinton administration in an E.P.A. news release. 
While other states have expressed interest in emissions-trading programs, only Michigan and New Hampshire have adopted similar approaches, Mr. Martyak said. 
The federal environmental agency never formally approved the New Jersey plan, known as the Open Market Emissions Trading program, although such credits were authorized in a broad revision of the Clean Air Act in 1990.
The program has been dormant for months, and when the federal agency asked Mr. Campbell whether the new administration planned to continue it, he responded, in a letter dated Aug. 13, that "the program has failed" and should be ended.
Mr. Campbell noted that the state's registry of credits had been shut down since last fall, when the private contractor that handled it withdrew. In January, the largest generator of credits, the P.S.E.&G. Power Company, agreed in talks with the state to forfeit them. The settlement "dried up the market," Mr. Campbell said.
The state reached a settlement in May with another utility, Conectiv Atlantic Generation, which had planned to meet the clean air standards by using credits but found there were none to buy. 
Mr. Campbell said that the state would not prosecute any companies that had bought credits in good faith but that environmental officials did not know of any companies still relying on the program. 
Under the program, reductions in emissions generated credits for 30,000 to 40,000 tons of pollutants, said Amy Cradic, a spokeswoman for the Department of Environmental Protection. Most of those, Ms. Cradic said, were for nitrogen oxides, which produces ground-level ozone, or smog. 
Most of the credits were generated by Public Service Electric and Gas, the state's largest public utility, which transferred them in a 1999 corporate reorganization to its newly created affiliate, P.S.E.&G. Power. 
The emissions credit-trading program places no cap on the emissions allowed with purchased credits, which Mr. Campbell said was a serious shortcoming. "I think there's wide agreement even among environmental groups that market mechanisms can be used effectively," he said, but only if there are restrictions limiting total emissions. 
Jeffrey Tittel, the president of the state chapter of the Sierra Club, said that the trades were never properly monitored and that the state relied on the polluting companies to report their own data. "It was an environmental con game that didn't work," he said. 
But Mr. Martyak emphasized that the New Jersey program was voluntary and that Mrs. Whitman and President Bush were proposing other, mandatory measures to control airborne pollutants. "She's all for finding ways to ways to reduce pollution," he said. "She'd welcome their sitting down and working with the agency." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); SMOG (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); TRENDS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) AIR POLLUTION; SMOG; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (ADMR); CAMPBELL, BRADLEY (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (74%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



482 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Group May Estimate Effects of Tax Cuts 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Without attracting much attention, Republicans are on the verge of achieving a cherished goal: official assessments of whether proposed tax cuts will help the economy and ultimately pay for themselves by generating more revenue for the government.
 For years, supply-side economists have argued that the current system of evaluating tax cuts overstates the expense to the federal budget by looking only at lost revenue and not taking into account benefits like increased output and jobs. 
 But they have faced opposition not only from liberals but also from prominent conservatives and Republicans, including Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Dan L. Crippen, the director of the Congressional Budget Office. The opponents say there is no way to develop sufficiently precise estimates of the effect of tax cuts on an economy as complex as the United States's. 
Members of both parties now say Republicans seem about to get much of what they want from the official arbiter of tax cuts, the nonpartisan staff of Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation.
The change was largely engineered by Representative Bill Thomas, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Economists and Congressional aides on both sides of the aisle said it could give Republicans important, if somewhat flawed, new ammunition in favor of tax cuts, including a justification for their assertion that tax cuts can generate new revenue to offset their direct cost to the federal budget.
With budget deficits mounting and the economy continuing to struggle, such ammunition could be vital to Congressional Republicans and President Bush in promoting their tax-cutting agenda in coming years.
Realizing the implications, Democrats have tried in recent weeks to slow the plan by stocking a Congressional panel of economists studying the issue with new members sympathetic to their objections. But some Democrats said the effort would probably not be more than a holding action, and that the new practice would likely be put to use soon, probably next year.
Prodded by Mr. Thomas, the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation is polishing a new economic model intended to simulate the effect of tax cuts on economic growth and revenues. Though some proponents of the approach acknowledge that the model still has problems, its use would be a start for conservatives who want a more ambitious revision of the way tax cuts are evaluated.
"If they start doing it, even in a flawed manner, it will start a process that will move, perhaps slowly, toward more reasonable scores," said Kevin A. Hassett, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group.
The joint committee's staff has indicated that it intends to issue reports that would for the first time assess the likely economic effects of changes in tax policy. In particular, the staff reports would offer guidance on whether any economic growth stimulated by the tax cut would produce new tax revenues.
The new reports will supplement but not replace the current system under which the committee provides official estimates of what a tax cut will cost in lost revenue without calculating the long-term economic effects. But members of both parties said the new reports would be a big step toward what supply-siders have sought for years, a "dynamic scoring" system that incorporates offsetting revenue gains in calculating the cost of tax cuts.
Economists who have been involved in the issue said the new approach is being put into effect despite apparent reluctance on the part of Lindy L. Paull, a Republican appointee who is chief of staff for the Joint Committee on Taxation. Despite objections from Democrats, she has pushed forward with a review by an outside panel of economists, and she signaled several months ago that she was about ready to meet Republican demands to begin looking at tax cuts the way they prefer.
"In the near future," she said in little-noticed testimony to the Ways and Means Committee in May, "the joint committee staff expect to be able to produce comparative analyses of the long-term growth and associated revenue feedback effects of major tax proposals."
Democrats said Ms. Paull, who did not return phone calls seeking comment, appeared to have been pressured by Mr. Thomas into backing an approach that the joint committee staff had long been wary of adopting. 
"If one reads the first 15 pages of Lindy Paull's testimony and stops, one would have to conclude that dynamic scoring was a bad idea," said Al Davis, the chief economist for the Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee. "Yet, the last page says that the J.C.T. staff is going to go ahead anyway. It is no coincidence that Chairman Bill Thomas's name was cited to make this improbable transition."
Mr. Thomas's effort to push for dynamic scoring is built on a rule adopted by the House several years ago that requires the Joint Committee on Taxation to provide such estimates. Democrats largely ignored the effort, and passed up a chance last spring to recommend economists to an advisory panel set up by the committee to help develop a computer model to evaluate the economic and revenue effects of tax cuts.
But as it became clearer this summer that the joint committee staff was on the verge of going ahead with the new approach, Democratic leaders began to worry. Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader, and Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and the chairman of the Budget Committee, wrote to Ms. Paull on June 25 expressing "surprise and distress" that the committee was proceeding with the plan. They urged her "as strongly as we can" to suspend consideration of the new approach.
In August, four Senate Democrats -- Bob Graham of Florida, John Kerry of Massachusetts, Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey and John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia -- asked Ms. Paull to name five economists of their choosing to the advisory panel, which already had 14 members, including some sympathetic to the Democratic position. Earlier this month she agreed with the request. 
The original members of the committee have already reviewed the economic model, which was developed by Joel Prakken of Macroeconomic Advisors of St. Louis, a well-known economic forecasting firm. Some economists on the panel said problems with the model could be fixed. Others said the problems were so fundamental that the model would never yield reliable estimates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MODELS (SIMULATIONS); LABOR; FINANCES; PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) THOMAS, BILL (REP); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



483 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: A Dismal Retail Season 

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
Retailers, suffering through a dismal back-to-school season, have plenty of culprits to blame, from the hot weather of late summer to their customers' anxiety over the economy. 
 But some analysts and shoppers are suggesting that the stores, particularly apparel merchants, should point the finger in another direction: at themselves. The slump in August sales, they suggest, occurred at least partly because consumers did not like what they saw on the racks. 
 Shari Schwartzman Eberts, an analyst with J. P. Morgan, said the overall lackluster results reflected not only a weak economy but also "the lack of excitement over the lack of new fashion trends." Russell Jones, a vice president at the consulting firm Cap Gemini Ernst & Young, said that two factors conspired to keep consumers out of the stores. "We had too many outlets offering too similar products and they didn't provide a whole lot of inspiration to the consumer to spend more." 
For clothing sellers, the back-to-school season is the second-most-important season of the year and is considered a good predictor of the all-important holiday shopping season. What makes this August's mediocre end-of-summer showing scary for these retailers is that the drops in student apparel took place while consumer spending was relatively healthy in other categories, like automobiles and home furnishings. 
"If parents are not spending for their children -- who have grown an inch and are wearing pants above their ankles -- why would anyone think they'll spend on themselves or for gifts?" asked Marshal Cohen, co-president of NPDFashionworld, a market research company. Mr. Cohen pointed out that to make matters potentially worse, this year's holiday shopping season, between Thanksgiving and Christmas, is shorter: only 19 days, compared with 25 last year.
Retail sales for the country, including cars and appliances, were up 1 percent over a year ago, according to the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index, casting an even darker shadow over the comparable- store sales for traditional back-to-school retailers. Wet Seal, a store that caters to teenagers and young people, basked in the glow of being a Wall Street darling. But this year, August sales were down 12 percent compared with August of last year. The Gap was down two points from last year's disappointing showing, and even Target -- where so many teenagers tell researchers they love to shop -- was down 0.1 percent. Sears was off 11.1 percent. Saks was down 3.3 percent. Federated, which owns Bloomingdale's, Macy's and Neiman-Marcus, was down 5.8. May Department Stores, which owns Lord & Taylor, was off 8.6 percent from August 2001.
Of the major department stores, only Kohl's and J. C. Penney, both sellers of basic, low-priced apparel, are up substantially: 4 and 2.9 percent, respectively. Even that was disappointing to some: just before the statistics were released, Credit Suisse First Boston was predicting that Kohl's would be up 5 to 7 percent.
The Spoer-Morton family of Santa Monica exemplifies the combination of lower spending and the boredom with current trends that so disappointed the back-to-school retailers. Danelle Morton, a writer, did not have as much money to spend this year on her daughter, Marissa Spoer, 13, and her son, Ben Spoer, 17. To her relief, she found her children did not mind a bit. 
"I have my own weird fashion thing; I'm a thrift store junkie," Marissa said. "I just bought a pink poodle skirt from the 50's in a vintage clothing place for $2. All my friends are into the same weird thing. I'm not an Abercrombie & Fitch kind of person."
While her brother does not frequent the thrift shops -- "my sister would pick stuff off the back of a dumpster," he said -- he, too, has spent little money on back-to-school clothes this fall. "Maybe $75; I bought one or two things, a T-shirt, a long-sleeved shirt." 
Ms. Morton is delighted. "As a single mother, this was a tough year for me, and I was surprised -- and relieved -- to find out they really didn't want much at all." 
For Marissa and many others in her age group and a little older, the store-bought, assembly-line jeans and peasant tops have no excitement. She and her friends are reaching toward vintage clothing to make their own fashion statement. At the same time, her brother is bored by the same old merchandise. 
"The reason I didn't do much shopping is that none of the clothing really appeals to me," said Ben, a senior in high school. "It's absurdly overpriced." Ben said he "won't walk into a Macy's -- what little shopping I do, I do at Target," (which he pronounces with a French accent, tar-ZHAY, to give it a high-class sound).
Not every teenager is haunting thrift shops. But analysts suggest that a shift is taking place away from department stores and specialty shops to the discounters like Wal-Mart and Target, where the clothes are cheaper and, analysts report, better made than they used to be. 
Britt Beemer, president of America's Research Group in Charleston, S.C., said that on average, parents are spending less for their children's clothes, wherever they buy them. Mr. Beemer interviewed parents in 1,000 families throughout the country during the first week of August. Last year, the average back-to-school budget was $336, he said. This year, it has dropped about 10 percent, to $304. He also found that parents are spending less per item. "They're buying at Target and Walmart where three years ago, they shopped at the Gap," he said.
Art Spar, the chief executive of STS Market Reserve, interviewed the young people themselves. "Among the young men, the only category that was up solidly was T-shirts." He paused. "Now what does that say?" Athletic gear, a mainstay of the teenage boys last year, was down sharply. Jeans and casual pants were flat for boys -- but popular among young women. The specialty stores -- Old Navy, the Limited and the Gap -- were losing favor among the girls, who are increasingly hitting the discount stores.
Barbara L. Coffey, an analyst with Jefferies, called most of the back-to-school statistics "abysmal." Ms. Coffey follows Alloy.com, an Internet site for youth-oriented clothing, which early this month, was downgraded from buy to sell. She says that to make its goals, Alloy may have to mark down merchandise, further reducing its profit levels.
Despite Alloy's poor showing, other Internet companies -- including Abercrombie.com and Old Navy.com -- proved a lot livelier than many brick-and-mortar stores, said Ken Cassar, a senior analyst with Jupiter Research, an online market research firm. Altogether, the online sales volume of back-to-school apparel is up 22 percent, said Dan Hess, a vice president with ComScore Networks, a Web measurement firm.
Still, analysts cautioned that those figures might not be as spectacular as they seem because the Internet market is growing so fast, and many of the businesses are still small. ("If you sold $400,000 last year and sold $800,000 this year, that's still a 100 percent increase," Mr. Beemer said, "but you're still nowhere.") Mr. Hess estimated that Internet sales -- taken together -- total 1.2 to 2 percent of America's retail sales.
Analysts worry that retailers -- online and off -- are so drastically reducing prices to meet their sales volume goals that they are seriously damaging profit margins. While one of the brightest spots in apparel is denim jeans for women, some anxious stores began marking them down in mid-August, Mr. Cohen said. 
"Retailers have already begun pushing the panic button; if they're marking down their hottest items now, how are they going to get people in the stores for Christmas?" 
For their part, the stores argue that the unseasonably hot weather kept shoppers out of the stores; they predicted parents and their children would start shopping when the weather cools. But it is not clear that stores have what younger shoppers want.
Amid the gloom of the back-to-school season, there are a few bright spots. Pacific Sunwear, a specialty retailer that caters to surfers and snowboarders, showed an increase of 12.9 percent over last year, considered impressive in the gloomy retail climate. 
"Every year there is one hot retailer who nails it," Mr. Beemer said. "This year, it's PacSun."
Moody's Financial Services, which kept its negative overall outlook for the retail industry, issued some good news this week: largely because of reduced inventory, the flow of rating downgrades for retail businesses has been stanched -- at least for now.
According to John E. Puchalla, a senior economist at Moody's, retail inventory has been reduced from an inventory-to-sales ratio of 1.55 to 1 to a ratio of 1.5 to 1. Although that decline sounds minuscule, Mr. Puchalla said it represented millions of dollars of inventory. In 1995, inventory peaked at a ratio of 1.74 to 1.
Moody's, in a report prepared by the company's economists, was cautiously positive: "A heavily promotional environment has produced sales at the expense of some profits, but cost cuts, thinner inventories and a focus on debt reduction have contributed to fewer ratings reductions."
The other potential bright spot for retailers is, unexpectedly, New York City. Several analysts predicted that Christmas sales in the city might be better than expected -- partly because tourism is up from last fall. While Wal-Mart is expected to drain a lot of department store dollars in cities across the country, Mr. Beemer said New York City stores still had glamour -- and no Wal-Marts. And, of course, there is not far to go to beat last year's Christmas sales, which plummeted in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks.
"Last year in New York, offices were canceling Christmas parties because of 9/11 and donating the money to help the victims," he said. "Now, manufacturers say they're shipping a lot of holiday evening apparel to high-end stores like Saks and Bergdorf Goodman."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pam Culley and her daughter Rebecca shopped for back-to-school items last month at the Golf Mill Shopping Center in Niles, Ill. Retailers have reported disappointing sales, and some analysts and shoppers are saying lackluster merchandise is to blame. (Getty Images)(pg. C1); Some young shoppers, like Marissa Spoer, 13, of Santa Monica, Calif., are spending less this season for school clothes. She bought her 1950's poodle skirt for $2 at a thrift shop instead of going to a larger retailer. (Stephanie Diani for The New York Times)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); CHILDREN (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); THANKSGIVING (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (74%); CAPGEMINI SA (70%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (74%); CAP (PAR) (70%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (74%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (70%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (70%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



484 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Reno Concedes Defeat And Endorses Her Rival 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Janet Reno ended her colorful campaign for governor today, conceding defeat a week after the Democratic primary to Bill McBride, a Tampa lawyer.
 "Bill McBride is the Democratic nominee for the governor of the state of Florida and I congratulate him," Ms. Reno, 64, said in a speech at her headquarters. "I congratulated him on the positive and very effective campaign he ran and I told him that I thought he was going to be a great governor." 
 With a final tally showing her losing to Mr. McBride by 4,800 votes out of 1.3 million ballots cast on Sept. 10, Ms. Reno said today that she was turning to life "in a private capacity." She said she would support Mr. McBride, a former marine and Vietnam veteran who won a contest she had been expected to win easily.
Ms. Reno accepted defeat only after elections supervisors in Miami-Dade County sent final vote tallies to state elections officials for certification. With the Miami-Dade results as well as a ballot review in Broward County last week, Ms. Reno picked up 3,400 votes -- not enough to pass Mr. McBride or to force a recount. Initial results released by the state division of elections had Mr. McBride leading by 8,196 votes.
State elections officials preliminarily declared Mr. McBride the winner on Thursday based on that figure. That was before Miami-Dade, Broward and a few other counties had to amend their results because of problems at the polls: precincts opened late, workers operated machines improperly and elections officials failed to retrieve voting data from some equipment.
Even Ms. Reno had trouble voting at her precinct on Election Day.
Mr. McBride, in contrast, gave a victory speech hours after state elections officials declared him the unofficial winner and days before Ms. Reno accept defeat. Today, Mr. McBride, 57, issued a statement praising Ms Reno and thanking her for her support.
"I have known Janet Reno for almost 30 years," Mr. McBride said. "She is my friend. My respect for her cannot be overstated."
Mr. McBride said he would focus on issues that were important to them both. "The issues Janet Reno spoke most passionately about during the campaign, prescription drug benefits, protecting the most vulnerable of Florida's children, improving our public schools, protecting our wonderful but fragile environment, and guaranteeing everyone's right to vote are also my issues. Together we will move this state in the right direction again."
Mr. McBride did little public campaigning today, concentrating on fund-raising and his search for a running mate. State Democratic Party insiders speculated today that Mr. McBride would name Tom Rossin, the Democratic leader of the Florida Senate from Royal Palm Beach, as his running mate as early as Wednesday.
Ms. Reno said today that it was time to put the campaign behind her. Asked what she intended to do next, Ms. Reno said, "I plan to learn how to play the piano more effectively than I can, to perfect my Eskimo roll" -- a kayaking move -- "and to go visit the people I have met along the way."
Above all, Ms. Reno said, she would help Mr. McBride defeat Gov. Jeb Bush. "I want to do everything that I possibly can to see that he gets elected," Ms. Reno said. "I urge everybody to support him because I think this is going to be one of the most critical elections in Florida's history."
State political observers said Ms. Reno had little choice but to hold out on conceding until she was confident that all votes had been counted. "I think she had the responsibility to see if she had sufficient votes to win before she would concede," said Lance de Haven-Smith, a political science professor at Florida State University.
Even so, Mr. de Haven-Smith said, the delay slowed momentum in the McBride campaign. "It should have been his day in the spotlight for this enormous upset and that would have brought a lot of attention to him and enhanced his reputation as an extraordinarily successful newcomer into Florida politics," he said. "But instead what got all the attention were the election problems. That certainly is a lost opportunity. But I don't think it will be a major blow for him."
At an appearance in Fort Lauderdale today and in a statement issued earlier, Mr. Bush congratulated Mr. McBride said he looked forward to a series of debates leading to the general election in November. 
"Now that we are down to two candidates, I hope that there will be a real focus on issues for the next seven weeks," Mr. Bush said. "I hope that my opponent will tell all Floridians his plan to address important issues like the economy, the environment and health care."
Ms. Reno said she would also devote much of her time to working on election reform in Florida.
"What I want to do is find out exactly what happened from the time I stood at that election polling place and was told I couldn't vote for another 80 minutes," she said. "The sobering experience of being told you couldn't vote on Election Day has stuck with me."
Ms. Reno said she was not sure if her days in politics were over. But she said she would conduct her work on election reform "as a private citizen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janet Reno, the former United States attorney general, embraced her friend Janet McAliley yesterday in Miami Lakes, Fla., after conceding defeat to Bill McBride in the close Democratic primary for governor. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (95%); GOVERNORS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES; ENDORSEMENTS 

PERSON: RENO, JANET; MCBRIDE, BILL; CANEDY, DANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



485 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
J.P. Morgan Says Earnings For Quarter Will Be Weak
J. P. Morgan said third-quarter earnings would be worse than expected because of bad loans to telecommunications companies and weak trading results. Stung by its relationship with Enron, losses on loans and its business in Argentina, the company has failed to meet expectations since the merger of J. P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan nearly two years ago.
 Losses on loans to companies, especially telecommunications and cable companies, are expected to rise to $1.4 billion in the third quarter, up sharply from $302 million in the previous quarter. Market Place. Page C11. 

California Crisis Tied to Companies
Widespread power failures during California's energy crisis could have been avoided if five energy companies had not withheld electricity they were capable of producing, a study by regulators has found. A22.

Layoffs Planned at Charles Schwab
The investment firm Charles Schwab plans to lay off an additional 10 percent of its employees, in what some analysts said was likely to be part of a round of year-end layoffs in the securities industry. Schwab expects to cut about 1,800 employees, a crucial part of its efforts to save $225 million a year. C7.

G.M. Reaches Labor Deal in Canada
General Motors and the Canadian Auto Workers union agreed on a new three-year contract covering 19,000 workers. C2.

Stock Markets Fall Sharply
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 172.63 points, to 8,207.55. The Standard & Poor's index fell 17.58 points, to 873.52, and the Nasdaq dropped 15.94 points, to 1,259.94. C11.

Output at factories, utilities and mines fell 0.3 percent in August from July. C7.

Support Sought for Security Report
Administration officials hope to build support among high-technology companies before releasing the final version of a report intended to help shore up cybersecurity. A21.

Even as the Transportation Department races to install million-dollar machines in airports to screen checked baggage, questions remain about their use and efficiency. A21.

Oracle Warns on Earnings
Blaming soft sales in Europe and Asia, Oracle said that first-quarter software sales would be on the low end of projections. C4.

A Big Draw for 'The Sopranos'
Powered by an expansive promotional campaign and another wave of laudatory media coverage, the fourth-season premiere of HBO's "The Sopranos," starring James Gandolfini, left, attracted 13.4 million viewers, the most-watched show in the history of the cable channel. The show was the third most-watched show on cable television since 1994. C6.

Vivendi Universal Awaits Financing
Vivendi Universal is expected to receive $1.94 billion in new loans this week from a group of banks, taking it a step closer to shoring up its financing ahead of a board meeting. C6.

Joint Effort to Sell a Building
Bayer has joined forces with several chambers of commerce and economic development groups to turn the sale of its plant in Elkhart, Ind., into a public relations campaign. To a buyer that will bring jobs to town, as long as they are not pharmaceutical industry jobs, the company will sell the whole complex for one dollar. Commercial Real Estate. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,207.55 down 172.63Nasdaq composite -- 1,259.94 down 15.9410-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.82% down 0.09The euro -- $0.9708 down 0.0002The dollar -- 122.36 yen up 0.12 Graph: "TODAY" shows balance of trade figures from January to June. July figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$37.0 billion Graph shows consumer price index figures from February to July. Consumer Price IndexAugust figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph tracks the daily closing price of Charles Schwab shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (84%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); MERGERS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (68%); AVIATION SECURITY (68%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (63%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); VIVENDI (61%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); VIV (PAR) (61%); VIV (BIT) (61%); SCHW (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (61%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) ARGENTINA (92%); CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (78%); ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



486 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
N.Y.U. Bolsters Economics Faculty

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson 

 BODY:
 New York University has hired THOMAS J. SARGENT, an economic theorist whose work with the Nobel Prize winner ROBERT E. LUCAS Jr. raised questions about the effectiveness of federal economic policy. He joined N.Y.U. this month from Stanford University, but will remain a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford. 
At N.Y.U., he will teach graduate students and undergraduates and help shape the graduate program in macroeconomics. 
 Dr. Sargent is one of eight economists N.Y.U. has hired in recent months as it seeks to build its faculty. The others are: JUSHAN BAI from Boston College and XIAOHONG CHEN from the London School of Economics, both in econometrics; JONATHAN EATON from Boston University, who edits The Journal of International Economics; WILLIAM EASTERLY, a specialist in development economics who formerly worked at the World Bank; JOHN LEAHY from Boston University, in the field of economics and psychology; ENNIO STACCHETTI, formerly of the University of Michigan, in dynamic game theory; and GIANLUCA VIOLANTE from University College, London, in macroeconomics and labor markets. Karen W. Arenson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ECONOMICS 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (58%); BOSTON COLLEGE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: SARGENT, THOMAS J; ARENSON, KAREN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



487 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
BLANCHARD, ANNE HILL

 BODY:
BLANCHARD-Anne Hill, 48. Of Manhattan and Erwinna, PA., died on September 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Edward Vermont Blanchard Jr. and loving mother of Lydia, Catherine and Cordelia; she was also the cherished daughter of W.T. Hill of Huntsville, AL and devoted sister of Liz Hill of Ann Arbor, MI; Bill Hill and Susan Hill of Huntsville, AL; and James Hill of Mineola, NY. Professor of economics at Queens College and former Chair of the department, Anne was an energetic and tireless advocate for women's education and economic well-being. She was a dedicated Trustee of the American Folk Art Museum and served on the Museum's Executive Committee. A prominent collector, Anne was instrumental in recognizing the work of contemporary self-taught artists and helped shape the burgeoning field of outsider art. Funeral services will be held on Saturday, September 21, 2002 at 11AM at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th Ave at 90th Street. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53 Street, New York, New York 10019. 
 BLANCHARD-Anne Hill. The Board of Trustees and professional staff of the American Folk Art Museum record with deep sorrow the death of their cherished friend and colleague, Anne Hill Blanchard, for many years a member of the Museum's Board of Trustees and Executive Committee. A person of integrity, conviction and courage, Anne gave of herself unstintingly to the Museum, playing a significant role in the institution's successful efforts to build a new home in the heart of Manhattan, and leaving a lasting legacy of true accomplishment. As chair of the Education Commmittee and as a founder of the Museum's Contemporary Center, she was an inspiring and devoted leader and a dedicated advocate for excellence in all aspects of the institution's service to the public. Possessed of a keen intellect and a generous spirit, Anne embraced life to the fullest, even in the face of serious illness. She will be remembered by us with affection and respect as much for her unfailing kindness and the special quality of her friendship as for her many contributions to the growth and development of the Museum. To Anne's husband and our dear friend, Monty, and to their daughters, Lydia, Catherine and Cordelia, go our most heartfelt condolences. Ralph Esmerian, Chairman L. John Wilkerson, President, Board of Trustees Gerard C. Wertkin, Director 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); WOMEN (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%) 

PERSON: BLANCHARD, ANNE HILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



488 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2064 words

HEADLINE: China Is Warming To Hollywood's Glow; 
Before Big Profits, Hurdles Remain

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
At the Da Hua cinema one recent afternoon, on a bustling stretch of Dongchang'an Street near Tiananmen Square, Julia Roberts was barely recognizable in a lacerated print of her 1997 comedy "My Best Friend's Wedding," playing to a sparse crowd of young women and chattering couples.
 "Normally I only go to the cinemas to see something that has a lot of special effects, like 'Star Wars,' " said Qui Alina, 25, who recently left her marketing job with an international candy company and said she hoped to study abroad. "Otherwise I just stay at home and watch the movies on DVD." 
 Nothing stirs Hollywood's covetous soul these days quite so much as the mention of China. With 1.3 billion people and only 5,000 movie screens -- North America, with one-fourth the population, has more than six times as many screens -- China looks to Hollywood much like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge must look to the oil industry: vast, untapped and potentially fat. But the potential for profit is undercut by the flood of illegal DVD's into Chinese homes. 
Many believe that the recent trickle of Hollywood films into Chinese theaters, along with those illegal DVD's, has played a role in spurring yearnings for accelerated change among ordinary Chinese citizens. Images of prosperous, independent Westerners -- if not explicitly standing up for their rights, at least dressed in cool style and living it up -- might have a fundamental impact on this huge, complex society as it emerges from its cocoon.
"I don't think there is any doubt that Western films have had a fairly large, popular impact," said Nicholas Lardy, an expert on the Chinese economy at the Brookings Institution in Washington. He pointed to obvious changes in everyday dress and slang, as well as to what may be more subtle shifts. But others fear overstating the case.
"To the extent that there are hidden messages in popular culture, that is possible," said Catharin E. Dalpino, another China expert at Brookings. "But the problem with buying this argument is that it will be distilled into saying Hollywood is helping to democratize China. And the truth is, I don't think the Chinese people are relying on Hollywood to help them develop a social conscience."
While signs from China's cloistered film bureaucracy are propitious, no one really knows how quickly officials will allow the country to open more fully to the outside world. But here at the rickety, odorous Da Hua cinema -- where horrible projection washes out the images, and thick humidity bleeds in from the street with every metallic screech of the theater's doors -- once can see the hurdles Hollywood must clear.
The theaters for the most part are decrepit and uncomfortable. And this, mixed with the easy availability of pirated versions of Hollywood films, often on Beijing street corners the week they open in New York, has led many to wonder whether Hollywood, even if it is able to break into this populous market, will be able to wean ordinary Chinese from their cheap-DVD habit.
Hollywood is largely holding back, awaiting signs from Beijing that more films will be allowed into the country, and that investments in infrastructure, like new multiplexes, will be safe and profitable, before beginning the pour in cash and resources.
There are exceptions. Columbia Pictures, for instance, has a Hong Kong subsidiary that makes films directly for the Asian market. The company says it hopes that this gesture will put it in good stead with Chinese authorities once the market truly opens up. And Warner Brothers is in a partnership, still awaiting final government approval, on an up-to-date multiplex in a Shanghai shopping mall, the theory being that more good theaters will create more movie fans, creating more pressure for more Hollywood films to fill them.
The Hollywood films that have done the best in China -- "Pearl Harbor," for instance, or "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" -- have been the kind of giant, special-effects blockbusters designed to draw fans like Ms. Qui away from their DVD machines.
Since China has no ratings system for films, meaning that anyone can get in to see anything, Chinese authorities and Hollywood studios have shied away from the kind of overly violent or sexually explicit films that might upset the country's conservative bureaucrats. The closed nature of China's bureaucracy also poses a puzzle. Censorship has not been a huge issue, officials in both countries said, largely because so few Hollywood films are being admitted.
"China is still quite conservative in terms of politics, especially in the film industry," said Zhang Yang, one of China's best known young directors. "The reforms that other industries have seen in recent years are only just beginning to start in the movie industry."
Still, many see signs of fundamental movement. This year the Chinese government doubled its quota of Hollywood films that are allowed to come into the country -- to 20 from 10 a year -- and relaxed rules that awarded one quasi-private company, the China Film Group, an absolute monopoly over the importation and distribution of foreign films. 
Many are waiting to see what comes out of the 16th Communist Party Congress in Beijing on Nov. 8, at which many expect Jiang Zemin to step down as party chief and announce his retirement as president. Which officials emerge from the congress in bigger jobs may well dictate whether the recent reforms will continue and what impact they will have on film, other media and China's cultural future.
"Some of the new leaders are supposedly -- and I put a heavy emphasis on the word supposedly -- more liberal and said to be more pluralistic than their predecessors," Mr. Lardy said. "There is some reason to think they are more interested in recognizing the need for openness."
Jack Valenti, chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America, which represents the major studios, said that he has been heartened by the reforms of recent years but that he felt the future was not yet clear.
"It's a difficult process," he said. "Because they move slowly, and there's so much going on behind the scenes that we don't know about, I don't care how much of an expert you are."
That China will eventually open up its market to Hollywood and other foreign film producers is considered close to a sure thing, partly because China's recent admission to the World Trade Organization creates impetus for it and because China's economic reforms of the last decade create a logic for it. "It's inevitable," said Han Sanping, vice chairman of the China Film Group and president of its Beijing Film Studio.
But how many films will be allowed in? Who will distribute and market them? And who will own the theaters and reap the exhibition profits? These are still questions awaiting answers.
China, which has been energetic about economic reforms in recent years, has been just as energetic in opposing political reforms, which makes movies a tricky topic. As other countries have learned over the years, popular entertainment has a way of bleeding over into politics when you least expect it.
Why Hollywood turns its covetous eye on China is obvious.
"You just have to look at the numbers," said Barbara Robinson, managing director of Columbia Pictures Film Production Asia. "They're humongous."
Mr. Han said he foresaw a day, perhaps five years away, when a swift rise in the number of Chinese cinemas and an increase in the number of Hollywood films shown here would transform Beijing and Shanghai into rivals of London or Frankfurt in providing box-office dollars for Hollywood. "I believe that China will become, before long, the single most important foreign market for Hollywood movies," he said. "After all, in five years there will be 20 million people in Beijing, and the same in Shanghai."
Until about five years ago the only way a foreign distributor could get a movie into China was to sell rights to it -- at a flat rate -- to the China Film Group. Mr. Valenti was instrumental in negotiating the new quota system in which profits on foreign releases are split between the Chinese and the Hollywood studio. Distribution and marketing of films remain firmly in Chinese hands. 
This new system has made studios more eager to get movies into China, but it has not been without problems. "The deal we worked out was that we would split the profits 50-50," Mr. Valenti said. "Unfortunately, by the time you pay all the taxes they lay on you, you only come out with 8 to 12 percent."
"I am not looking for any instant gratification there," Mr. Valenti said. "We're looking three, four or even five years down the road."
Millard Ochs, president of Warner Brothers International Theaters, agreed that the day would come when Shanghai and Beijing will compare with London and other cities in the prevalence and popularity of Hollywood films. But he said Mr. Han and Mr. Valenti were a little optimistic, adding it would take at least 10 years.
Three years ago, when he detected a shift in mood among Chinese officials in favor of closer Hollywood ties, Warner Brothers decided to go into the Chinese multiplex business, Mr. Ochs said. Since Chinese law does not allow a foreign entity to own a majority interest in a movie house, Warner Brothers joined with a Shanghai theater company and a Hong Kong real estate investment concern in a recently opened, nine-screen multiplex in Shanghai. 
If the partnership gets final approval from the Chinese government, Warner says it intends to put its name on the multiplex and perhaps to look into further partnerships elsewhere in China.
Hollywood is also interested in exploiting the production side of the Chinese film industry, where costs are significantly lower than in the United States and most other countries. Columbia Pictures had what for China was a huge hit last year with "Da Wan" ("The Big Shot's Funeral"), a mainstream comedy from the director Feng Xixogang, whose cast included Donald Sutherland and Paul Mazursky.
Most agree it is only a question of time before one of the major Hollywood studios goes into business with the China Film Group or some other entity in a new movie studio somewhere in China. Gareth Wigand, vice chairman of the Columbia TriStar Motion Picture Group, said his was not the only company considering such a move. "It's just too tempting a pasture not to attempt to break in there," he said.
That still leaves the issue of rampant video piracy, which has received most of the international attention in recent years, as Hollywood executives remain convinced that it must be overcome or at least blunted before they can expect to make significant inroads in China.
Tickets to that afternoon screening of the Julia Roberts comedy at the Da Hua cost about $2.44, compared to $3.05 for more recent blockbusters like "Spider-Man" and $7.34 that some of the handful of new multiplexes have been able to charge for some new releases.
All fairly cheap by United States standards, but a lot more than the roughly 85 cents it costs to buy a pirated DVD of the same films. "In China, the concept of the movie is that it is something that you watch on TV," said Ciu Jian, China's first Western-style rock star and one of the country's most recognizable pop figures.
That's the dilemma. Like Ms. Qui, most Chinese movie lovers satisfy their desires at home and only occasionally are tempted to the theater.
"It's not that people don't want to go out to the movies," said Jiang Wen, one of the country's most celebrated directors and actors. "It's simply that the cinemas are so bad. Too often the seats smell like the toilet, and the lobbies are dirty. Some say, why will people pay for cinema when they can watch cheaper DVD's at home? But I say, everyone has a kitchen at home, yet there are still many restaurants."
Mr. Jiang's most recent film, "Devil At My Doorstep," won the grand prize at the Cannes Film Festival in 2000. But he fell afoul of the Chinese government by not seeking its permission to take the film to the festival. As a result it has never been released in China, and Mr. Jiang did not work. Now, however, he is at work again on a new project, perhaps one more indication that film strictures are loosening.
"It's a country of intrigue, excitement and caution, all at the same time," Mr. Ochs said. "It has not opened up as quickly as we'd hoped, but certainly moved further than it was a few years ago."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Wednesday about Hollywood's hope for more profits in China misstated the English title for a film by the director Jiang Wen, who was quoted as saying that deplorable conditions in movie houses were one reason people preferred to watch pirated DVD's. The film is "Devils on the Doorstep," not "Devil at My Doorstep."


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sun Dong An Cinema City in Beijing has a Western-style snack counter.; New Theaters like the China Stellar UME International Cineplex in Beijing have welcomed Hollywood films, but most Chinese fans prefers to watch DVD's at home. (Photographs by Mark Leong/Matrix, for The New York Times)(pg. E5); New Western-style movie-theater complexes in China, like these two in Beijing, have Hollywood executives dreaming of making big profits there. (Photographs by Mark Leong/Matrix, for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM GENRES (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (70%); WILDLIFE (52%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: JULIA ROBERTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



489 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Iraq, Upside Down 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Recently, I've had the chance to travel around the country and do some call-in radio shows, during which the question of Iraq has come up often. And here's what I can report from a totally unscientific sample: Don't believe the polls that a majority of Americans favor a military strike against Iraq. It's just not true.
 It's also not true that the public is solidly against taking on Saddam Hussein. What is true is that most Americans are perplexed. The most oft-asked question I heard was some variation of: "How come all of a sudden we have to launch a war against Saddam? I realize that he's thumbed his nose at the U.N., and he has dangerous weapons, but he's never threatened us, and, if he does, couldn't we just vaporize him? What worries me are Osama and the terrorists still out there." 
 That's where I think most Americans are at. Deep down they believe that Saddam is "deterrable." That is, he does not threaten the U.S. and he never has, because he has been deterred the way Russia, China and North Korea have been. He knows that if he even hints at threatening us, we will destroy him. Saddam has always been homicidal, not suicidal. Indeed, he has spent a lifetime perfecting the art of survival -- because he loves life more than he hates us.
No, what worries Americans are not the deterrables like Saddam. What worries them are the "undeterrables" -- the kind of young Arab-Muslim men who hit us on 9/11, and are still lurking. Americans would pay virtually any price to eliminate the threat from the undeterrables -- the terrorists who hate us more than they love their own lives, and therefore cannot be deterred.
I share this view, which is why I think the Iraq debate is upside down. Most strategists insist that the reason we must go into Iraq -- and the only reason -- is to get rid of its weapons of mass destruction, not regime change and democracy building. I disagree.
I think the chances of Saddam being willing, or able, to use a weapon of mass destruction against us are being exaggerated. What terrifies me is the prospect of another 9/11 -- in my mall, in my airport or in my downtown -- triggered by angry young Muslims, motivated by some pseudo-religious radicalism cooked up in a mosque in Saudi Arabia, Egypt or Pakistan. And I believe that the only way to begin defusing that threat is by changing the context in which these young men grow up -- namely all the Arab-Muslim states that are failing at modernity and have become an engine for producing undeterrables.
So I am for invading Iraq only if we think that doing so can bring about regime change and democratization. Because what the Arab world desperately needs is a model that works -- a progressive Arab regime that by its sheer existence would create pressure and inspiration for gradual democratization and modernization around the region.
I have no illusions about how difficult it would be to democratize a fractious Iraq. It would be a huge, long, costly task -- if it is doable at all, and I am not embarrassed to say that I don't know if it is. All I know is that it's the most important task worth doing and worth debating. Because only by helping the Arabs gradually change their context -- a context now dominated by anti-democratic regimes and anti-modernist religious leaders and educators -- are we going to break the engine that is producing one generation after another of undeterrables.
These undeterrables are young men who are full of rage, because they are raised with a view of Islam as the most perfect form of monotheism, but they look around their home countries and see widespread poverty, ignorance and repression. And they are humiliated by it, humiliated by the contrast with the West and how it makes them feel, and it is this humiliation -- this poverty of dignity -- that drives them to suicidal revenge. The quest for dignity is a powerful force in human relations.
Closing that dignity gap is a decades-long project. We can help, but it can succeed only if people there have the will. But maybe that's what we're starting to see. Look at how Palestinian legislators just voted no confidence in Arafat; look at how some courageous Arab thinkers produced an Arab Human Development Report, which declared that the Arab-Muslim world was backward because of its deficits of freedom, modern education and women's empowerment.
If we don't find some way to help these countries reverse these deficits now -- while access to smaller and smaller nuclear weapons is still limited -- their young, angry undeterrables will blow us up long before Saddam ever does. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (88%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (88%); RELIGION (88%); TRENDS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); POLITICS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EGYPT (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



490 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Best Buy Net Down as Spending Slows 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn., Sept. 17 

 BODY:
The Best Buy Company said today that its second-quarter earnings fell 27 percent because of a slowdown in consumer spending since July, particularly in recorded music and home office products.
 The results, however, beat Wall Street expectations, revised last month after the company warned of lower profits because of lagging sales. 
 Best Buy, which is the nation's largest consumer electronics chain, earned $62 million, or 19 cents a share, in the quarter, which ended Aug. 31, down from $85 million, or 26 cents a share, a year earlier.
Second-quarter sales rose 20 percent, to $5.01 billion from $4.16 billion a year earlier, reflecting the addition of 88 new stores over the last year and the inclusion of sales from 100 Future Shop stores.
"This earnings decrease reflects the significant slowdown in comparable-store sales gains since July," Brad Anderson, the chief executive, said.
As a result, Mr. Anderson said, Best Buy is delaying some of its investments in higher-end home technology. The company, which is based in Eden Prairie, has also set aside, for the time being, any plans for international expansion and does not expect any major acquisitions within the next 18 months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MUSIC (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (52%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: BEST BUY CO INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: BEST BUY CO 

TICKER: BBY (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (96%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (96%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (96%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (96%) SIC5731 RADIO; 

PERSON: BRADBURY H ANDERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



491 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-16

Iraq Causes Rift at U.N. Between U.S. and Others
The United States insisted on keeping up the pressure on Iraq with a tough new Security Council resolution, while Russia, France, China and the Arab nations said Iraq's decision to allow the return of international weapons inspectors was enough to hold off stronger action for now. The Bush administration expressed little faith that inspections would ensure Iraq's disarmament, and pressed ahead for a Council measure that could authorize an eventual military attack against Saddam Hussein. A1

U.S. General Arrives in Qatar
The commander of American forces in the Persian Gulf, Gen. Tommy R. Franks, arrived in Qatar for talks about the rapidly expanding American military presence there, which is expected to play a key role in a war against Iraq. A19

U.S. Forces in East Africa
Hundreds of American Special Operations Forces have quietly deployed to a base in East Africa for missions against Al Qaeda fighters who are believed to be hiding throughout the region, especially in Yemen, Pentagon officials said. A20

Limits to Afghan Peacekeeping
A State Department report on Afghanistan raises questions about expanding an international peacekeeping force beyond Kabul, suggesting it will be mainly up to Afghanistan to secure its outlying areas. A20

Attack on U.S. Base Stopped
Preventing what might have been a major terrorist attack on American troops, the Afghan police on Saturday intercepted a booby-trapped tanker gorged with jet fuel and destined for the American military airbase north of Kabul, the commander of international peacekeeping troops said. A20

A Broad Agreement Is Reached
The leaders of Japan and North Korea held a groundbreaking summit meeting in North Korea and reached a broad agreement to begin normalizing relations after decades of bitter hostility. North Korea cleared the way for the talks, which will begin next month, with an extraordinary admission: that its agents played a part in the disappearance of 11 Japanese in the late 1970's. Japan also apologized for suffering caused during 35 years of colonial rule. A1

NATIONAL A22-28

New Florida Vote System Hurt by Lack of Testing
Despite spending $32 million, election experts around the country say that Florida rushed headlong into overhauling its entire voting system and in many cases did not allow enough time to test new machines or educate voters and poll workers. A1

Reno Concedes Governor Bid
Janet Reno ended her campaign for governor, conceding defeat a week after the Democratic primary to Bill McBride, a Tampa lawyer. A28

Massachusetts Primary
Shannon P. O'Brien, the state treasurer, won a heavily contested, four-way Democratic primary for governor. She will face Mitt Romney, the Republican venture capitalist, in the general election. A28

Mayor Defies D.E.A. Raids
Mayor Christopher Krohn of Santa Cruz, Calif., and city council members gathered at city hall to witness a medical marijuana giveaway in protest of a recent federal raid on a local cannabis collective. A22

Luggage Machines Barely Used
While the Transportation Department races to install million-dollar machines in airports to screen checked baggage, most of the devices are not operated near capacity, two Congressmen complained. A21

Judge Orders Public Trial
A federal judge in Detroit ruled that a Muslim cleric held since December should be freed in 10 days or have a new trial open to the news media and the public. A21

Utilities Found to Limit Energy
A study by state regulators has found that the California power failures of 2000 and 2001 could have been avoided if five independent energy companies had not withheld electricity they were capable of producing. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Hubble Sights New Black Holes
Astronomers reported that the Hubble Space Telescope had detected two medium-weight black holes, the first clear evidence for a new category of cosmic black holes. A24

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Fire Dept. Radio Problems Could Last for Years
New York City's fire commissioner, Nicholas Scoppetta, said that it could take years before all the equipment needed for reliable communications inside the city's tallest buildings is bought, found and connected. The commissioner said he has made this his top priority because the department's response to the attack on the World Trade Center was plagued with communications problems. A1

Grocers Agree to Conduct Code
Nearly two dozen Korean grocers pledged to comply with a code of conduct that aims to improve working conditions at New York City's 2,000 greengroceries. The code of conduct was announced after a year of negotiations between the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and the Korean American Association of Greater New York. B1

Pollution Program May End
New Jersey officials plan to end an air quality program that relies on economic incentives for polluters to reduce smog-forming emissions. B1

FASHION B9

SPORTS D1-7

Ewing Announces Retirement
Patrick Ewing said at a news conference that he was retiring from professional basketball and would become an assistant coach for the Washington Wizards. D1

DINING F1-16

OBITUARIES A29

EDUCATION B8

Mayor Enforces Discipline
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced the creation of the Office of School Safety and Planning, which will be charged with creating safety plans and disciplinary procedures for children who disrupt classrooms with poor behavior. B3

BUSINESS DAY C1-22

End of Hershey Auction
The Hershey Trust Company, the charitable trust that controls the Hershey Foods Corporation, said last night that it had rejected all bids and was ending the auction for the company. C1

Tyco Reports Web of Deception
Tyco International, whose former top executives have been indicted on charges of looting the company, reported details of a web of deception and personal enrichment that spread throughout the management ranks of the conglomerate. C1

American to Try a Shuttle
American Airlines, which has been trying to cut costs and scale back its flight schedule, is entering the East Coast shuttle market, even as other carriers have seen drops in passenger volume on their shuttles. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

ARTS E1-8

World Musicians Grounded
Musicians were unable to perform in a music festival in Los Angeles because of a number of problems with international travel. E1

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: A road map for Iraq; the new challenge to Microsoft; risking Russia's fragile coast; Verlyn Klinkenborg on stolen glimpses.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (84%); MAYORS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MILITARY BASES (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); AL-QAEDA (67%); CITIES (61%); JET FUEL (50%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); QATAR (92%); CHINA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (91%); YEMEN (79%); GULF STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002 



492 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Work Begins on Oil Pipeline Bypassing Russia and Iran 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD ALLEN GREENE 

DATELINE: BAKU, Azerbaijan, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Construction formally began today on a new pipeline to carry oil from the Caspian Sea to the Mediterranean coast of Turkey, bypassing Russia and Iran. 
 Huge reserves of oil and gas are believed to be recoverable in the Caspian basin, but exploitation of them has been limited in part by the difficult logistics and the difficult politics of transporting the output to Western markets. The new pipeline, to be built and operated by a consortium led by BP, is expected to begin carrying 375,000 barrels of oil a day by early 2005 and 1 million barrels a day by 2007. 
 Presidents of the three countries crossed by the 1,094-mile pipeline -- Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey -- took part in a groundbreaking ceremony for the pipeline today, as did the United States energy secretary, Spencer Abraham. The United States has been a major proponent of the project. 
Mr. Abraham said at the ceremony that the pipeline would give Western nations "greater energy security with a diversified supply" of oil that depends less on the Middle East. He read a letter from President Bush, who called the project "an essential component of an East-West energy corridor."
Azerbaijan's president, Geidar Aliyev, said the pipeline could "become a guarantor of peace, stability and security in the Caucasus."
Critics have said that the logic behind the pipeline is geopolitical, not economic. The southern end of the Caspian, near Baku, is not where the most promising energy reserves have been found, and some analysts doubt that the pipeline can be viable if world oil prices fall much below $20 a barrel. 
But Julian Lee, an analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London, said the pipeline would nonetheless play a significant role in the market. 
By itself, Mr. Lee said, Azerbaijan's expected output of 850,000 to 1 million barrels a day "is not a huge amount." But in the context of world demand, which is growing annually by only 100,000 barrels a day, "this looks more significant," he said. 
Even relatively modest amounts of new oil reaching world markets from the Caspian could affect how the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries sets it production levels, said Akbar Noman, the head of the World Bank office in Baku, because it "might make OPEC countries feel that their bargaining position has been weakened."
"If there are major new discoveries in the Caspian," he added, "it could have a significant effect."
Experts disagree on just how much oil the Caspian contains, and to whom it belongs. The five nations that border the sea -- Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia and Turkmenistan -- have disputed their maritime boundaries for years, and the offshore exploration that has been done lately in undisputed Azerbaijani waters has tended to yield disappointing results.
Kazakhstan has had better luck, and its territory may include 70 percent of the sea's total reserves by some estimates. Some experts say the Baku-Ceyhan pipeline can prosper by attracting shipments of Kazakh oil. But the Kazakh fields are hundreds of miles from Baku, and they have alternative shipping routes that may prove cheaper, including a new pipeline to Novorossiysk on Russia's Black Sea coast.
Still, Ahmet Necdet Sezer, the president of Turkey, urged Kazakhstan to join the project in his remarks at the groundbreaking ceremony, held at the Sangachal oil terminal 25 miles south of Baku. A crane lowered a symbolic first section of pipe into place, and Mr. Sezer, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Aliyev and Georgia's president, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, each shoveled some earth to help bury a time capsule containing a message from the three presidents. The event was broadcast on Azeri television.
BP, as lead partner, owns 35 percent of the $2.9 billion pipeline project. Azerbaijan's national oil company, Socar, has the next largest stake at 25 percent. Other partners include Statoil of Norway, Unocal and Amerada Hess of the United States, TPAO of Turkey, Eni of Italy, TotalFinaElf of France and Itochu and Impex of Japan.
A gas pipeline is also planned for the route, with an Iranian company, OIEC, as a minor partner.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The groundbreaking was yesterday in Azerbaijan for the new pipeline from the Caspian Sea to the Turkish Mediterranean port of Ceyhan. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: BP PLC 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) GREENE, RICHARD ALLEN; ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) CASPIAN SEA (94%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (93%) AZERBAIJAN (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TURKEY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (93%); GEORGIA (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%) CASPIAN SEA; TURKEY; RUSSIA; IRAN; AZERBAIJAN; GEORGIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC); BAKU (AZERBAIJAN)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



493 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: AT HOME WITH: Frederic Schwartz; 
The Man Who Dared the City To Think Again

BYLINE:  By ALASTAIR GORDON 

 BODY:
FREDERIC SCHWARTZ flinched at a flash of light outside the window of his architecture studio in SoHo. "Did you see that? It's an airplane," he said, pointing at the fuselage of a commercial jet banking harmlessly over the Hudson River.
 Mr. Schwartz is unusually sensitive to subtle shifts in light and sound, and with good reason. "I was getting ready to go to work when the first plane flew over my loft," he said. "I called 911 before it even hit, or at least that's how I remember it. It just sounded wrong -- out of place, like a missile." He ran to the corner of Church and Canal Streets in time to watch the towers collapse. 
 Mr. Schwartz then did what came naturally: he began to draw, sketching quickly with colored pens on scraps of paper, restaurant tabs and napkins. On the back of a cardboard coaster he sketched the towers engulfed by black clouds. "I kept drawing horrible things," he said. "I drew what I saw." 
Within weeks, the nightmarish imagery had subsided, replaced by Mr. Schwartz's first glimmerings of how Lower Manhattan might be reorganized and restored. "I started to redraw the skyline. I started to draw what should happen," he said.
Those impromptu drawings were the conceptual seeds of a master plan for downtown redevelopment -- a plan that was published earlier this month in The New York Times Magazine and is now displayed in Venice at the Eighth International Architecture Exhibition at the Biennale. It was drafted as an alternative to the official versions unveiled in July by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, which met with tepid public response. 
Under Mr. Schwartz's proposed design, the 16-acre void at ground zero would be left alone, permitting a respectful period of reflection before a permanent memorial can be agreed upon. He would instead bury part of West Street, the forbidding multi-lane state highway, in a tunnel running north from Battery Park to Chambers Street, and build on the reclaimed land on top. He envisions a series of parks and buildings linked by a tree-lined promenade that would reconnect Battery Park City with the old city grid. "People were thinking of West Street physically but not metaphysically. Is that the right word?" Mr. Schwartz said. "They weren't thinking that you could do two things at once."
While Mr. Schwartz's plan has no official standing, it has stirred debate by injecting imagination into the proceedings and showing how aspirational design could help repair the city.
"His presentation stood out from so many others," said Jordan Gruzen, a member of New York New Visions, an advocacy group of architects and planners formed after Sept. 11. "Now everyone else has taken this point of view, and every scheme that comes forward deals with West Street."
After living in SoHo for 22 years, Mr. Schwartz, 50, has an intimate feel for Lower Manhattan. "I walk and look and Rollerblade on all those streets," he said. "I know the buildings and I know what's going on inside them."
He owns a ground-floor loft in a 19th-century cast-iron building in SoHo, where he lives with his girlfriend, Tracey Hummer, an editor at Art in America magazine. 
The loft formerly belonged to his friend, the architect Alan Buchsbaum, who helped popularize the loft look of the early 80's and designed loft conversions for Bette Midler, Diane Keaton and Billy Joel. Mr. Buchsbaum died of AIDS in 1987; Mr. Schwartz moved in a year later. Aside from a new shower mosaic depicting an underwater scene, Mr. Schwartz has changed almost nothing; he wanted to preserve the high-tech style that was Mr. Buchsbaum's signature. "Living here makes me remember Alan all the time and how talented he was," Mr. Schwartz said. 
The loft is furnished with an eclectic mix of furniture by Mr. Buchsbaum, Frank Gehry, Robert Venturi and Mr. Schwartz's own designs, including a chair from 1985 in the shape of a house. (Mr. Schwartz has edited a book about his friend's work, "Alan Buchsbaum, Architect and Designer: The Mechanics of Taste," Monacelli Press, 1996.)
"He was the master of loft design," Mr. Schwartz said. "He was like the older brother I never had." 
The loft's ceilings are stamped tin from the late 19th century, and old beams and columns have been stripped to expose original timber. Industrial light fixtures, a mainstay of Mr. Buchsbaum's high-tech style, hang in the kitchen and living area. "I feel it's timeless," Mr. Schwartz said. "That's why I can't change it, because it's not getting old." One of Mr. Buchsbaum's few eccentric touches is an amorphously shaped hot tub. 
"I love my loft, but I don't live at home," Mr. Schwartz said. "I live at my office nowadays." Mr. Schwartz starts his mornings at about 8 at the Westside Coffee Shop on Church Street where he greets the proprietor, Johnny Morillo, with a high five. "I drink a triple shot of cafe con leche -- rocket fuel -- to get me going," he said. Then he walks to his studio, eight blocks north on Varick Street. "I have a wonderful walk through SoHo every morning, and I'm always aware of the empty sky." he said.
Mr. Schwartz's studio, on the 15th floor of a former printing plant, has expansive views of SoHo and, to the south, ground zero. "When you have this incredible panorama of the city you are more aware of what's missing," Mr. Schwartz said. "When you also happen to be an architect, you're hypersensitive to what's not there."
Mr. Schwartz has worked on New York City projects since 1978, including eight years with the firm of Venturi, Rauch & Scott Brown on Westway, the contentious plan to build a 100-acre park on the West Side. The project was never built, but Mr. Schwartz received an invaluable lesson. "Westway taught me the importance of working with the community," he said. "We had to listen to the needs of different neighborhoods, including TriBeCa, Chelsea and the West Village."
Since opening his own firm in 1996, Mr. Schwartz has designed dozens of New York projects, including the Whitehall Ferry Terminal now under construction. "I grew up going on that ferry to Staten Island to visit the grave of my great-grandfather," he said. His commercial projects include the offices of Rolling Stone magazine, Joe's Restaurant in Greenwich Village and the offices of Deutsch, an advertising firm based in Chelsea. 
Mr. Schwartz has no official planning role, but he has managed to insinuate himself into the redevelopment process by becoming a regular presence at public hearings. Many days he would attend a development corporation meeting at 8 a.m. and then, in the evening, go to a community board meeting. "It started to get insane," he said. "I'd go to meeting after meeting." He would listen patiently before taking the floor to remind the assembled that the objective was to create a plan that would include all of Lower Manhattan, not just ground zero. "Sometimes, I would go ballistic," he said. "I would say: 'Don't you get it? If you keep thinking about the site, you're stuck.' " 
While Mr. Schwartz does not have an official title, his persistence has paid off. In April he presented his ideas to Amanda Burden, chairwoman of the City Planning Commission. He also showed his plan to the Battery Park City Authority and to Alexander Garvin, head of planning and design at the development corporation. "He's tenacious," said Nancy Owens, a chairman of the land use committee of Community Board 1.
In July, Mr. Schwartz began meeting with a group of other architects dissatisfied with the development corporation's six designs. "He unrolled these drawings, and we all realized that he had done a tremendous amount of research," said Charles Gwathmey, one of the participating architects. "It was the one thing that we all universally agreed on. The West Street move clarified the opportunities and de-obligated one from having to deal with the 16 acres of the World Trade Center." 
Rafael Vinoly, another collaborating architect, said: "Fred's plan removed the limitations on the thinking process." 
Two weeks before his plan was published, Mr. Schwartz entered the Ear Inn on Spring Street, a favorite neighborhood spot.
A waitress nodded in recognition as he took a seat at a back table. "I live here in the city, and I made it my mission to understand," he said, drawing a quick sketch on a paper napkin. "Urban planning has to find a way to make it all work together."
Mr. Schwartz continues to refine his ideas and has begun to focus his attention on what might be done with ground zero itself. "This is different than other memorials," he said. "You have to have bigger ideas. You're dealing with heaven and hell."

GRAPHIC: Photos: CITIZEN ARCHITECT -- Frederic Schwartz with his sketches for rebuilding Lower Manhattan. Right, his loft in SoHo. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Meg Henson for The New York Times)(pg. F1); IN PLACE -- Frederic Schwartz, above left, outside his SoHo loft, which has a table, above, by Alan Buchsbaum, a house-shaped chair by Mr. Schwartz and a sun-shaped chair by Robert Venturi. Left, a "think pod" designed this year by Mr. Schwartz for the Deutsch advertising agency's offices in Los Angeles. (Meg Henson for The New York Times; left, Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; below, Benny Chan/Fotoworks)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); AIRLINES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); LAND RECLAMATION (66%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); TERRORISM (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ARCHITECTURE 

PERSON: GORDON, ALASTAIR; SCHWARTZ, FREDERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



494 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Low Prices Threaten Coffee Farmers' Livelihood, Report Says 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Global economic forces are crushing millions of coffee farmers around the world, the British charity Oxfam said in a report released today.
 In Latin America, Africa and Asia, farmers are paid roughly 24 cents a pound for their beans, which may be the lowest price in a century, the report said. 
 Four multinational companies -- Kraft, Sara Lee, Procter & Gamble and Nestle -- buy nearly half the world's coffee and sell it for an average of $3.60 a pound, the report said. People in New York, Paris and Tokyo may pay almost that much for a single cup. 
The value of coffee exports has fallen by $4 billion since 1997 as supplies glut a market that was once regulated and is now free. Farmers in places like Mexico, Nicaragua and Guatemala are penniless and starving while "the coffee companies are laughing all the way to the bank," the report said. 
"Asking some of the poorest and most powerless people in the world to negotiate in an open market with some of the richest and most powerful results, unsurprisingly, in the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer," the Oxfam report said. 
Oxfam timed the release of its report to coincide with the opening of a five-day meeting of the International Coffee Organization, in London, on Thursday. The organization has a plan to cut the coffee glut by barring export of the lowest-quality beans.
Oxfam will ask members of the group -- 40 major coffee importers and exporters -- to agree to destroy about 660 million pounds of the lowest-quality coffee sitting in the world's warehouses, a move that would cost about $100 million.
An economic analysis conducted for the International Coffee Organization said destruction would raise prices paid to coffee-producing nations by roughly $750 million and, Oxfam suggested, perhaps save some lives among the rural growers. 
The four corporations cited by Oxfam each said, in varying ways, that as buyers they were well aware of the crisis among coffee growers. But Kraft says it is "fundamentally opposed to any scheme that intervenes on price." Sara Lee says it is "uneasy about price support." Procter & Gamble says it wants "to help address the underlaying social and economic issues" -- but not through the International Coffee Organization.
Nestle, alone among the four, says it supports a price-control scheme led by the coffee organization. "Nestle is against low prices as they are not only bad for farmers, but also bad for Nestle's business," the corporation said. 
Fair Trade coffee, the response of an international movement that helps businesses buy directly from rural coffee cooperatives, eliminating the corporate middleman and paying farmers double or more the market price, is a growing alternative. Fair Trade coffee now represents about 2 percent of the world market. In the United States, such coffee is sold at about 10,000 retail outlets; sales grew 36 percent last year.
But without a worldwide plan to raise prices paid to farmers and give them new alternatives to old ways, Oxfam said, the livelihoods of millions are at risk.
"The coffee market is failing," the report said. "It is failing producers on small family farms for whom coffee used to make money. It is failing local exporters and entrepreneurs who are going to the wall in the face of fierce international competition. And it is failing governments that had encouraged coffee production to increase export earnings." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (94%); COFFEE FARMING (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); STARVATION (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%) COFFEE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FARMERS 

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (55%) OXFAM; KRAFT FOODS; SARA LEE CORP; PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; NESTLE AG 

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (57%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ASIA (93%); GUATEMALA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); FRANCE (57%) MEXICO; NICARAGUA; GUATEMALA; LATIN AMERICA; AFRICA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



495 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 899 words

PERSON: David D. Rodriguez 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Enhancing the 'Brand Name' of the Revered Apollo

BYLINE:  By LYNDA RICHARDSON 

 BODY:
DAVID D. RODRIGUEZ, the executive director of the Apollo Theater Foundation, does not get easily worked up. He is as smooth and steady as the jazz notes that drift from the bass that he sometimes plays as a sideman on stage.
 On a recent morning, Mr. Rodriguez, who even performed at the Apollo before taking his current job, is leaning back in his sparse office in the theater on West 125th Street. An amiable man with roundish build and graying hair, he is fielding questions about news about the historic theater. There has been a lot of it lately. 
 A week ago, it was reported that the Apollo was holding off plans for a performing arts center that was to have been centered on the theater, with foundation executives citing a poor economic climate. The postponement prompted the foundation's president and chief executive, Derek Q. Johnson, a former senior vice president at AOL Time Warner, to resign.
Mr. Rodriguez, 40, is temporarily filling in for Mr. Johnson, adding real estate duties to a palette that includes theater operations and artistic direction.
Under Mr. Rodriguez's watch, the theater's programming has become more ambitious. There's 9 to 12 shows a week, including the well-received George C. Wolfe revue "Harlem Song" and the televised amateur talent show "It's Showtime at the Apollo," which has a new Emmy-award-winning producer. This fall, the talent show goes on a 40-city tour. In March, the theater is to feature the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of Salman Rushdie's allegorical novel "Midnight's Children," sponsored by Columbia University and the University of Michigan.
So, he's asked, what's up with the performing arts center? Is raising money a problem?
"I don't see what we're going through as being a problem whatsoever," he says. "In a sense, right now, we are taking a cautious, reasonable approach. Our overall goal here at the Apollo has been, 'How do we expand the programs and extend the Apollo?' It's an incredible brand name."
"We're not here to do real estate development. We're trying to enhance the brand name of the Apollo, not just throughout the country but the world."
Mr. Rodriguez leans over to offer a muffin and coffee, but he won't offer up more about the center, which was to encompass the Victoria Theater to the east of the Apollo and an empty lot to the west.
For now, he says, the Apollo is fixing up its own house. A $53 million restoration of the 1,500-seat theater is under way, with the first phase scheduled for completion this spring.
Mr. Rodriguez gives a quick tour, stepping onto the new stage and sweeping a hand out over the house.
"Before the renovation, people would walk in and the lighting wasn't up to snuff and there were holes in the carpet and they'd say, 'It's O.K. in Harlem," he says. "It makes your heart want to drop, this perpetual state of lower expectations. When you come to Harlem, you should expect the best."
Mr. Rodriguez is respected as an arts director who sees the link between the arts and the development of neighborhoods. He's also a Latino running a theater that is an revered African-American institution. But Mr. Rodriguez, who is Puerto Rican and Spanish, says his heritage has not been an issue.
Since his arrival early last year, the theater has initiated programs like Latin Nites, with a Chilean rock band opening the concert series this year. He says the expanded music menu has been well received, adding that it's not as if the Apollo's traditional array of music has been shoved aside.
KEEP in mind, the theater was completely underutilized, and what people want to see, more than anything, is the Apollo alive and functioning," he says. "An Apollo that is alive and active has a positive effect. Whether that is sharing the stage with our Latino brothers and sisters or artists such as David Byrne, associated with Midtown audiences, or Mary J. Blige, a mainstay of the Apollo, it all contributes to the whole."
"I think we want to make this a very inclusive place. The Apollo represents all of Harlem, as we see it, and represents urban communities across the country."
Before the Apollo, Mr. Rodriguez was the executive director of the John Harms Center for the Arts in Englewood, N.J., for three years. He is divorced and lives there with his girlfriend, a nurse-anesthetist. He grew up in Fanwood, N.J. His father sold maritime insurance and his mother taught children with learning disabilities.
But he has a Harlem history. For seven years, he was executive director at Aaron Davis Hall, at Convent Avenue and 135th Street. He previously managed development at the Queens Museum and the Intar Hispanic American Arts Center in Midtown Manhattan, where he generated support for Hispanic music and theater.
Mr. Rodriguez says his musical passion came from family visits to Spain, where his paternal grandfather lived. A barber there taught him to play classical guitar. He later studied bass at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester and Mansfield University in Pennsylvania.
"One of my teachers told me that everyone needs a bass player, and that appealed to the practical side of me initially, and then I saw it was a supportive thing," he says. "There was real value in supporting the solo musician or others, and that's probably one of the reasons I got to be an arts administrator. I thought having one of us on the other side of the fence would be a good thing for the field."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David D. Rodriguez (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: AOL INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (84%) APOLLO THEATER (NYC) 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%)

RICHARDSON, LYNDA; RODRIGUEZ, DAVID D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Theater 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



496 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: QAEDA'S BANKROLLS; 
Front Companies Said to Keep Financing Terrorists

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Hundreds of companies worldwide form a shadow network capable of providing money and logistical support for continued attacks by Al Qaeda and other loosely connected militants, investigators and financial regulators in Europe and the United States say. 
 A United Nations report this month concluded that Al Qaeda remained a threat partly because it retained access to between $30 million and $300 million controlled by ostensibly legitimate businesses associated with the terror network. Many of these suspected front companies, it said, are in countries with few regulations and can pack up and disappear overnight. 
 "The real problem for the Americans is not freezing bank accounts," a Swiss banking regulator said in a recent interview in Zurich. "The bigger challenge is stopping the unknown number of apparently legitimate businesses set up to move money around the globe to terrorists." 
Nearly a year after Al Qaeda's base of operations in Afghanistan was destroyed, efforts to disrupt the flow of money to its remaining operatives in other parts of the world have become one of the primary goals of the United States and its allies. So far, the results have been mixed. 
One instance of the elusive nature of Qaeda front companies is Maram, set up in Istanbul as a travel agency and import-export business by three men described by American investigators as Qaeda associates. 
The investigators said in recent interviews that they suspected that the company had provided money and other assistance to Qaeda operatives traveling between Europe and Afghanistan and might have been involved in efforts to obtain material for nuclear weapons. 
But after one of its principals, Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, was arrested on a trip to Germany and extradited to New York on terrorism charges in 1998, the company cleaned out its offices overnight and disappeared. 
Counterterrorism experts in Europe and the United States also said Islamic charities continued to disburse funds to militants. The United Nations says governments are having a particularly difficult time regulating and monitoring the millions of dollars paid out by the charities. 
In the latest instance of a possible connection between charities and militants, the Dutch newspaper Eindhovens Dagblad reported last week that the security police were investigating financial links between a Saudi-financed mosque in the southern Dutch city of Eindhoven and members of the group from Hamburg, Germany, that was involved in the Sept. 11 attacks. 
The United Nations report said the terror network was "alive and well," with access to considerable money. Senior American officials disagreed, saying arrests in Europe, Southeast Asia and elsewhere and the freezing of $112 million in suspected terrorist money had weakened the organization. 
Stopping the money flow is the best way to stop terrorism, said David Aufhauser, the general counsel at the Treasury Department and the chief of an interagency task force on terrorist financing. 
"Much of the intelligence war is, in fact, suspect -- the product of treachery, deceit, custodial interrogation, bribery and encrypted talk," Mr. Aufhauser said at an international symposium on economic crime in Cambridge, England, last week. "But audit trails do not lie. They are diaries of terror." 
Not every transaction leaves an audit trail, however, and some experts question whether the money can be stopped, given the myriad means of transferring cash around the world. Much of the terror network's wealth has been shifted beyond the reach of banks, according to the European intelligence authorities and bank regulators. 
Valentin Roschacher, the attorney general of Switzerland, said the consensus of officials in all major European banking states was that Al Qaeda had protected most of its assets by shifting from cash to diamonds and gold before the Sept. 11 strikes in the United States. 
"They are able to function, and we believe they still have enough money to possibly carry out other attacks," Mr. Roschacher told reporters recently in Washington. 
Nikos Passos, a professor at Temple University and a consultant to the Treasury Department on illegal money transfers, said, "The chief parallel aim should be to stop the terrorists, because the financing system cannot be completely controlled." 
The Turkish business linked to Al Qaeda offers a lesson in the difficulty of monitoring seemingly legitimate enterprises. 
Mr. Salim, a Sudanese engineer and longtime associate of Osama bin Laden, set up the company in Istanbul in November 1996 at a time when Al Qaeda was expanding its financial reach from Afghanistan and Sudan into Europe. In the incorporation statement filed with the Turkish authorities, Mr. Salim said Maram would be involved in travel and in imports and exports. 
American investigators and prosecutors said Mr. Salim, 44, had a history of moving money and shopping for weapons for Al Qaeda. In 1994, he was involved in an attempt to buy nuclear material and in later efforts to develop chemical weapons, according to testimony last year at the trial of other suspects in the 1998 bombings of the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. 
Mr. Salim is awaiting trial in New York on charges related to his suspected role in the embassy bombings. 
A few months after Mr. Salim created Maram, records show that he transferred shares in the company to two other men identified by the American authorities as Qaeda members. 
One was Wael Hamza Jalaidan, 44, a Saudi businessman described by the American authorities as a founding member of Al Qaeda. Earlier this month, the governments of the United States and Saudi Arabia jointly designated Mr. Jalaidan as a financial supporter of Al Qaeda, meaning his assets will be frozen. 
Mr. Jalaidan is on the board of the Rabita Trust, a Pakistan-based charity accused by the United States of providing logistical and financial support to Al Qaeda. 
Attempts to reach Mr. Jalaidan were unsuccessful. The Saudi press has reported that he issued a statement last year saying he cut all ties with Mr. bin Laden in 1992. 
A senior American government official said that Mr. Jalaidan was in Saudi Arabia and that Saudi officials knew his location, though he was not believed to be in custody. 
The other partner in Maram was Muhammad Bayazied, 42, a Sudanese also involved in setting up businesses for Mr. bin Laden, according to testimony at the New York trial. He also took part with Mr. Salim in the attempt to buy nuclear material and handled substantial amounts of cash, Jamal Ahmed al-Fadl, a former Qaeda member now cooperating with the government, testified. 
A senior American official in the region said Mr. Bayazied once lived in the United States and was believed to be an expert in explosives and chemical weapons. 
By the mid-1990's, Istanbul had become a frequent transit point for Qaeda operatives traveling between Afghanistan, Sudan and Europe, the American and European intelligence authorities say. The German police said one suspected Qaeda recruiter, Muhammad Heidar Zammar, passed through the Istanbul 40 times traveling between Europe and Afghanistan. 
The senior American official in the region said that Maram was suspected of making travel arrangements for Qaeda operatives and that there were strong suspicions that Mr. Salim and Mr. Bayazied continued their efforts to buy components for nuclear weapons. 
"We don't know what they were doing for sure," the official said. "They were up to no good, but we don't have any details." 
The suspicions that they may have been trying to buy nuclear components were buttressed by a Turkish accountant, Yavuz Subasi, who handled Maram's books. 
Mr. Subasi said that the company had no real business transactions, but that Mr. Salim had traveled extensively in Russia, Romania and Bulgaria, countries where the authorities say nuclear material is sometimes available on the black market. 
Mr. Salim and Mr. Bayazied lived in Istanbul with their families on and off for at least two years, but they never attracted any notice from the Turkish authorities. Neighbors said the men kept to themselves, though they said there were many visitors to their apartments who appeared to be Arab. 
In September 1998, Mr. Salim was arrested in Germany at the request of American prosecutors and extradited to the United States. Within days, Maram's tiny office in a huge anonymous office building in Istanbul was cleared out. 
"I just came one morning and saw the office was empty," said Ahmet Evgin, who runs a small restaurant nearby. "Nobody knows what happens." 
By the time the security police came around asking questions a few months ago, he and other former neighbors said, there were no traces of what might have been an important cog in the Qaeda financial machinery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ARRESTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); EXTRADITION (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); LAWYERS (63%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%); RELIGION (62%); BRIBERY (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (51%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); ZURICH (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); TURKEY (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); GERMANY (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



497 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Council Wants Liberty Bonds To Build More Homes for Poor 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
More than half of any new apartments built with the special financing created by Congress in response to the terrorist attack on Sept. 11 should be offered at below-market rents for low- and moderate-income families, City Council leaders said yesterday.
 "The governor and the mayor have an unprecedented opportunity to create a substantial amount of housing units that would be actually affordable to every New Yorker, to public-school teachers, firefighters, police officers, nurses," said Gifford Miller, the Council speaker, announcing the proposal at a City Hall news conference. 
 The Council has no official authority to influence the program, which authorizes issuing tax-exempt bonds, called Liberty Bonds, to finance construction projects in the city. Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg are each able to approve $4 billion in projects, $800 million of which can be for residential rental units. 
Thus far, the state has required developers using the bonds to set aside 5 percent of a project's apartments for moderate-income families, which has brought criticism from housing advocates who say that percentage is too small.
Other housing construction programs unrelated to the Liberty Bonds have been required to set aside 20 percent of their units for low- and moderate income tenants to receive tax-exempt financing. But developers have argued that it is not feasible to reserve more than 5 percent now because banks have been unwilling to approve loans for projects with higher proportions of low-rent apartments since Sept. 11. 
The city has not yet approved any residential projects under the program, but Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, said that the city planned to impose a fee on residential developers to help subsidize so-called affordable housing.
But Council leaders said yesterday that the city and the state were missing a chance to help solve a housing crisis that is driving away working New Yorkers. According to Council officials, with a 5 percent set-aside, 85 percent of city households would not be able to afford most of the potential units. 
The Council's plan would reserve 55 percent of the units for low- to middle-income families, with rents fixed on a sliding scale. The remaining 45 percent would rent at market rates.
The Council plan also calls for allowing developers to use low-income housing tax credits in conjunction with Liberty Bond financing, and for creating a waiver to allow 25 percent of the funds for residential development to be used throughout the city, as is the case with commercial projects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); APPROVALS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); FAMILY (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); GOVERNORS (57%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (56%) HOUSING; GOVERNMENT BONDS; RENTING AND LEASING; CITY COUNCILS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) CARDWELL, DIANE; MILLER, GIFFORD (COUNCIL SPEAKER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



498 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dow Falls Another 35 Points Amid Tepid Expectations

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors nervous about third-quarter earnings opted for caution yesterday and sent stocks lower for a second day. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 35 points, reaching a six-week low. 
 A bearish earnings announcement from J. P. Morgan Chase helped push the Dow down as much as 156 points before the blue chips recovered some ground on afternoon bargain hunting. 
 "The financial sector is getting blasted again based on the J. P. Morgan pre-release; that's having a rollover effect," said Tony Cecin, director of institutional trading at US Bancorp Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. "You also have a continuing push on Iraq." 
"But today," Mr. Cecin said, "I think it's more related to the perception that third-quarter earnings are not going to be what people are hoping for." 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 35.10 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 8,172.45. The finish, which came after a 173-point drop Tuesday, was the lowest since Aug. 5, when blue chips closed at 8,043.63. 
The broader market also finished lower. The Nasdaq index fell 7.81 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,252.13. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 4.06 points, or 0.5 percent, to 869.46. 
Analysts say investors have become increasingly jittery amid concerns about the strength of the economic recovery, a war with Iraq and the fact that September is historically the worst month on Wall Street. 
Since Aug. 22, the Dow has dropped nearly 900 points, in part because of a stream of mixed economic reports that failed to reassure investors of a comeback. 
"The economic data has not been suggestive of either an improving or a deteriorating economy, but a flatlining economy," said Joseph V. Battipaglia, chief investment officer at Ryan Beck & Company. "So it's hard for investors to get fully engaged in buying stocks at this point." 
Earnings announcements, which began in full force this week, also put pressure on the market. 
J. P. Morgan Chase fell $1.11, to $20.44, after the bank said third-quarter profits would fall below second-quarter earnings. The news dragged down the banking sector, including Citibank, which declined 69 cents, to $29.11. 
Technology stocks fell in concert with Oracle, the software maker, which dropped 71 cents, to $8.32, after the company predicted lower revenue in the current quarter because of weak sales. 
In addition, mixed economic reports added to the market's caution. The Labor Department reported yesterday that consumer inflation was 0.3 percent in August, the most in four months. The lack of inflation pressures has been a main reason the Federal Reserve has been able to leave interest rates at a 40-year low. 
But the Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit fell to $34.6 billion in July as exports rose for a fifth consecutive month. 
Shares in Hershey fell $8.81, to $65, after the charitable trust that controls the company said it would not sell the company. 
Japanese companies with listings on Wall Street gained after the Bank of Japan announced that it would buy shares directly from banks. Japan's banks have huge shareholdings on their books, which they are trying to cut in order to reduce their vulnerability to market fluctuations.
American depository receipts of the Mitsubishi-Tokyo Financial Group, soared 94 cents, to $7.28. Depository receipts in Toyota Motor increased $3.22, to $53.13, and receipts of NTT DoCoMo rose $1.40, to $19.55.
Nike rose $1.35, to $43.05, after the company, the maker of athletic shoes, reported first-quarter earnings that beat expectations. --------------------

Treasury Prices Drop
By Bloomberg News
 Treasury prices fell yesterday as some investors said a four-month rally had made yields less attractive.
Demand for government securities slowed after yields on the benchmark 10-year notes slid to a 39-year low yesterday. Analysts said that while an economic expansion is weak, it may accelerate before year-end and drive yields higher.
"Today's yield levels are dissuading some investors," said Sadakichi Robbins, head of fixed-income trading at Bank Julius Baer. 
The price of the Treasury's 10-year note dropped 6/32, to 104 11/32 as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, increased to 3.84 percent from 3.82 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year note dropped 11/32, to 109 23/32 as the yield rose to 4.75 percent from 4.73 percent on Tuesday. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BONDS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INFLATION (85%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); IRAQ WAR (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (61%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (74%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (71%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (74%); JPM (LSE) (74%); 8634 (TSE) (74%); PJC (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



499 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE FUGITIVE; 
Taliban's Founder Still Eludes Search

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DEH RAWUD, Afghanistan, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
Somewhere in the mountain fastness north of here, in tribal lands beyond the reach of Afghanistan's central government, Mullah Omar Mohammed is believed to be hiding.
 The police say that one year after the beginning of the end of the Taliban government, its founder, Mullah Omar -- a secretive, one-eyed cleric -- has returned to his conservative, rural roots. Here in the harsh heartland of the Taliban movement, clan loyalties carry more weight than the $10 million bounty offered for him since January by American soldiers, most recently by Special Forces troops in a new post here. 
 "We believe he is traveling in this area with Taliban," said Shafiulla Khakrazwal, a police spokesman in Kandahar, outlining a mountainous no-man's land where the tips of four provinces meet, far from the sway of their provincial capitals. 
Mullah Omar grew up in this mountain town, a jouncing, five-hour jeep ride from Kandahar, the de facto capital of southern Afghanistan. In the 1980's, at the time of the jihad against the Soviets, Mullah Omar, described as tall and slender, descended from the mountains to the Kandahar area. During the war, a Soviet grenade exploding in a mosque blinded him in the left eye.
After the Soviet withdrawal, his dour, black-turbaned Talibs swept across almost the entire country. Subsequently, while black turbans fell out of fashion elsewhere in Afghanistan with the fall of the Taliban, men seen here today still invariably wore turbans in black or indigo blue. A soldier from a town 25 miles southwest of here died on Sept. 5 while trying to assassinate Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, and the governor of Kandahar province, Gul Agha Shirzai.
During the anti-Soviet war, Mullah Omar became a close friend of Rais Abdul Wahid, then a mujadeen warlord based in Bagran, a mountain town about 50 miles north of here, as the helicopter flies.
"Rais is against the new government," Mr. Shafiullah, the police spokesman, said. "At the beginning, he said he was surrendering weapons, but he only surrendered a few. We think he must be in contact with Mullah Omar Mohammed."
While American helicopters fly almost daily sorties north from here, searchers have several handicaps. Secretive even while leader of Afghanistan for six years, Mullah Omar rarely appeared in public. When he did, he often drew his cloak across his face. Only two photographs of him are known to exist. Few Afghans know what their former ruler looks like.
 In New York for the United Nations General Assembly on Sept. 13, President Karzai told the Council on Foreign Relations that it was difficult to trace Mullah Omar in part because "nobody recognizes him. This is a man nobody has seen. He goes and hides in houses." 
The elusive Taliban leader reappeared in the limelight today when Arabic cable television network Al Jazeera received a statement signed by Mullah Omar in which he vowed to continue fighting until Afghanistan is "liberated." In the statement, which Al Jazeera deemed to be genuine, Mullah Omar also accused the United States of being "arrogant and simple-minded."
American soldiers here declined to be interviewed about their search for the Taliban leader.
"My assumption is that Mullah Omar is still alive," Col. James L. Huggins, a task force commander, said in an interview at Kandahar Air Field. Refusing to describe tactics, he said only, "Our mission is to capture or kill all Al Qaeda, Taliban and anticoalition forces."
Although the yearlong hunt for Mullah Omar has been fruitless, all officials interviewed in Kandahar said they believed he was alive, and all stressed the importance of tracking him down.
"We have to capture the heads of these groups; their main activities are to brainwash the younger generation," said Mr. Shirzai, the Kandahar governor and military leader. The governor, who still wore a head bandage from the failed assassination attempt against him and Mr. Karzai, added emphatically, "We have to eliminate the heads of those groups."
Gen. Khan Muhammad Mujahed, the Afghan military commander of Kandahar, said: "It is very important to the government to arrest him. He is the leader, the chief of the Talib groups. If we arrest him, the chief, the other commanders will give up."
But after a year of false leads, Afghan officials seem happy to leave the hunt mainly to the Americans. 
"Our soldiers, our intelligence people have been searching for a long time," General Muhhamad said. "But because of economic problems, we cannot do big operations. We need outsiders to send us money, to send us food, to send us weapons."
At Sangesar, a mud-walled village 25 miles west of Kandahar, Mullah Omar operated a mosque and a madrassa, or religious school, until 1994, when he and his student followers left to seize Kandahar. Raz Muhammad, a 32-year-old farmer, paused from changing the oil filter on his car and said to an American visitor: "You have the satellites and everything, and you can't find him. So, how can ordinary people?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leaflets telling of the reward for Mullah Omar Mohammed and bearing his picture have been dropped by aircraft over southern Afghanistan. (Reuters) Map of Afghanistan highlighting Deh Rawud: Afghan officials seem happy to leave the hunt mainly to the Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); TALIBAN (92%); MOUNTAINS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); HELICOPTERS (62%); DISARMAMENT (61%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: AL JAZEERA (TELEVISION NETWORK); TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%) BROOKE, JAMES; OMAR MUHAMMED (MULLAH) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



500 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Lobbying by businesses overwhelms their campaign contributions.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
WITH so much at stake, economists have long wondered why businesses and interest groups do not contribute more to political campaigns. Individuals, organizations and companies gave a total of nearly $3 billion to national campaigns in 1999 and 2000. That may seem like a lot, but it is only 0.15 percent of annual federal spending. For perspective, note that spending on advertising and promoting cigarettes was five times what was spent in all elections held in 2000. 
 There are two possible explanations why companies do not spend more: either they receive a great deal for what they already give, so contributing more is unnecessary, or they receive very little, so contributing more is fruitless. 
 In a provocative new study that effectively challenges the conventional wisdom, Stephen Ansolabehere, John de Figueiredo and James M. Snyder Jr., professors at M.I.T., come out decidedly in favor of the latter explanation. (A revised version of the study -- "Why Is There So Little Money in U.S. Politics?" -- will be published in The Journal of Economic Perspectives, and it is now available online at econ-www.mit.edu /faculty/snyder.) 
The authors argue that individual contributors are ultimately responsible for the bulk of campaign contributions -- around 80 percent -- as well as for the "marginal dollar" spent on campaigns. "Marginal contributors" are particularly important to politicians because their support can swing close elections. 
Although family income is a strong predictor of whether individuals give to campaigns, contributions from individuals tend to be small, around $115 on average. And the share of small contributions from individuals rises in close elections. This suggests that smart politicians should be responsive to individuals who give small amounts, rather than to giant corporations and interest groups. 
Furthermore, research by Steven Levitt of the University of Chicago finds that additional campaign spending has a notably small effect on election outcomes.
In this environment, Professor Snyder surmises that companies find they get little in return for their contributions, so they contribute relatively little.
The impact of corporate political action committees is greatly exaggerated, he says. In fact, 40 percent of Fortune 500 companies do not even have a PAC, and the average corporate PAC gives only around $1,400 to legislators, well below the legal limit. Moreover, PAC's are required by law to raise almost all their money from voluntary individual contributions; companies can pay only for start-up, administrative and fund-raising costs. And while it is true that companies and organizations can give unlimited soft money contributions, these amount to only about 13 percent of total contributions.
If corporate contributions have an insignificant effect on elections, why are so many tax breaks, loopholes and subsidies for special interests written into the law? The authors have a simple explanation -- lobbying. Organizations spend 10 times as much on lobbying as on direct campaign contributions, and they spend undisclosed millions more to establish special-interest research institutes, or so-called think tanks, which do not legally count as lobbying activities but are intended to manipulate public opinion and public policy. 
Indeed, the tobacco industry provides a typical case study. With a major court case, taxation of cigarettes, and regulation of tobacco on the agenda, the industry clearly has much at stake in the political arena. Yet individuals and PAC's associated with the industry gave a total of just $8.4 million to political campaigns in the 2000 national election cycle, including soft money, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Nevertheless, the tobacco industry spent $44 million on lobbyists and $17 million on the Tobacco Institute in that cycle, suggesting that a much higher return is expected from these activities. The industry also devotes resources to lobby state legislatures, which often require much less disclosure than the federal government. 
Some contributors probably do receive implicit favors, but these probably amount to relatively little compared with the size of the overall government budget or total campaign contributions. "Legislators' votes depend almost entirely on their own beliefs and the preferences of their voters and their party," according to Professors Ansolabehere, de Figueiredo and Snyder. 
Political scientists are quick to point out, however, that corporate campaign contributions are not entirely inconsequential: they can help gain access to legislators, which facilitates lobbying. Alan Rosenthal, a political scientist at Rutgers University, said lobbyists were more likely to have influence on minor technical issues than on big issues like gun control or abortion. He also stressed that lobbyists often provide essential information to lawmakers.
Still, there is undoubtedly much to the argument that most contributions are not intended to -- and do not -- buy votes or influence legislators' positions. 
Instead of viewing campaign contributions as market transactions, the professors suggest that a more accurate interpretation is that donations are a form of political participation, like voting or attending a rally. People contribute money to express their sentiment or partake in the process, much as sports fans buy jerseys bearing the names of their favorite players or teams.
Indeed, one conclusion that emerges from this line of thought is that it might make sense to encourage more citizens to participate in politics by making small campaign contributions to dilute further the effect of special-interest spending. For example, individuals could be given a refundable tax credit if they make political contributions up to a certain amount, or a voluntary check-off could be added to tax forms to direct contributions to Congressional races, as is done for presidential campaigns.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Political Market"Businesses often spend a lot more on lobbying than they contribute to political campaign coffers. Here are some recent examples, in millions. AccountantsSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): $2.7SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 12.4 AgribusinessSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): 20.8SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 77.7 Beer, wine and liquorSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): 5.2SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 10.6 Commercial banksSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): 5.4SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 25.8 DrugsSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): 11.6SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 75.3 Energy and natural resourcesSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): 29.7SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 159.1 InsuranceSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): 16.3SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 87.0 Military contractorsSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): 4.4SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 60.1 TobaccoSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): 5.3SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 20.3 TransportationSOFT MONEY CONTRIBUTIONS (1999-2000 election cycle): 20.9SPENDING ON LOBBYING (2000 only): 137.6 (Source: The Center for Responsive Politics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (89%); WRITERS (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%) ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; RESEARCH; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN BENNETT (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



501 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: After Promise of Purity, a Cruise Ship Calls On Monterey 

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN 

DATELINE: MONTEREY, Calif., Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Shrouded by a dense fog, the vast white vessel slid silently into the bay this morning and anchored far from shore, like a ghost ship unwilling to be noticed.
 Off the stern, a pair of young sea lions cavorted, tracing arcs in the air, oblivious to their role in the commotion the cruise ship's visit has caused here since it was announced earlier this year. 
 When Royal Caribbean, owner of the vessel that came in today and and two other companies announced plans to make Monterey a port of call this year, stewards of the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary, one of the world's most diverse aquatic ecosystems, shuddered. They had visions of crew members tossing trash overboard and disgorging oily bilge water and sewage, practices for which some companies have paid heavy fines elsewhere. 
In an April meeting here, representatives from environmental organizations, the city, the state and the sanctuary told the cruise lines that if they could not refrain from soiling the waters of the bay, they should stay away.
So the cruise lines agreed in writing, apparently for the first time anywhere, not to discharge anything, not even the relatively innocuous effluence that the law allows.
"From the ship's master to its crew, every effort is made to ensure that we are good stewards of our ocean environment and of all the ports we visit," William S. Wright, a senior vice president at Royal Caribbean, wrote to a California water quality official on May 28.
As wary travelers forsake journeys abroad after Sept. 11, more cruise ships are plying more United States ports. In most places, the economic benefit of such visits precludes any complaints. Not here. 
Even today, a small contingent of protesters convened at Fisherman's Wharf, concerned that Royal Caribbean's Grandeur of the Seas, the first of the super-sized cruise ships to debark passengers here, would foul the waters of the bay.
"If cruise ships are allowed to dump anything, they usually dump everything," said Kaitilin Gaffney, a program manager for the Ocean Conservancy, an organization based in Washington that works to protect the oceans, and abroker of the agreement reached here, who watched from Fisherman's Wharf as the Grandeur of the Seas' 1,800 passengers debarked from local boats chartered to take them to shore.
"Given their history of dumping garbage in backyards all over," Ms. Gaffney said, referring to cruise ships in general, "we're quite pleased." 
Royal Caribbean was fined $28 million in 1998 and 1999 after Coast Guard investigators discovered, in what prosecutors described as a fleet-wide practice, that its engineers had rigged illegal plumbing lines to bypass equipment designed to take oil out of bilge water that was about to be dumped at sea. 
From 1993 to 1998, cruise ships were found to have caused at least 87 illegal discharges of trash, oil and hazardous wastes into American waters and paid more than $30 million in fines, according to Bluewater Network, a San Francisco environmental organization. Twelve of the cases were in California.
Thomas M. Dow, a spokesman for Princess Cruises, one of five cruise lines accused by environmental groups in an April lawsuit of dumping untreated ballast water into California waters, said the discussions with the townspeople here allowed the company to understand their worries about pollution.
"We pretty quickly came to realize that this is what most concerned them," Mr. Dow said, "and that we could operate within those restrictions." 
Tom Greene, director of safety, environment and training for Crystal Cruises, which plans to dispatch its 790-foot Crystal Harmony to Monterey on Oct. 9, said company officials had promised to withhold all liquid and solid waste water while in Monterey Bay. Even though a company policy forbids such dumping, Mr. Greene said the company wanted to reassure local officials in writing that it would abide by their demands. 
In November last year, Crystal Cruises was one of six cruise lines that agreed to settlements of $41,250 to $247,500 for a variety of charges concerning excessive smokestack emissions in the port of Juneau, Alaska, over the previous two summers. 
The first of the three ships scheduled this year for Monterey, the 950-foot, 18-deck Star Princess, with 4,000 passengers and crew members, anchored offshore on May 7 but did not debark passengers because of choppy seas, a disappointment to local business owners. 
In 2000, the cruise industry contributed almost $18 billion to the American economy and generated more than 257,000 jobs, according to the Ocean Conservancy. The industry is growing by more than 8 percent a year.
"They've been telling us not to throw things overboard," said Margaret Alford, a passenger on the 900-foot Grandeur of the Seas, which made its Monterey stopover as part of a trip of California ports and Mexico. "They're even telling us to use our towels twice, to save water."
Visitors today took in not only the salty-dog seafood snack joints on Fisherman's Wharf, among other things, but Cannery Row, made famous in the John Steinbeck novel of the same name. For many, the area's jewel is the marine sanctuary, which encompasses 5,322 square miles of ocean and is celebrating its 10th anniversary this week. It is believed to house 27 species of whales, dolphins and other marine mammals, 94 species of sea birds and about 345 fish species. The whiskered sea otters, in particular, are much admired, not least for their custom of cracking shellfish open on their bellies while floating on their backs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cruise lines said there would be no pollution of Monterey Bay, Calif., by ships like the Grandeur of the Seas, which sailed into the bay yesterday. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) Map of California highlighting Monterey: Monterey Bay is one of the world's most diverse aquatic ecosystems. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (92%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (91%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); OCEANS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%) WATER POLLUTION; CRUISES; GRANDEUR OF THE SEAS (CRUISE SHIP); FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL 

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL CARIBBEAN INTERNATIONAL 

PERSON: MADIGAN, NICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) MONTEREY BAY (CALIF); MONTEREY BAY NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



502 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Leading Benefactor's Late Checks Fray the Nerves of Arts Groups 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
Alberto W. Vilar, a Cuban-American money manager who in just the last three years distinguished himself as perhaps the world's most lavish benefactor of opera and classical music, has failed to make payments to at least two prominent arts groups in the wake of high-tech stock losses.
 Lorin Maazel, the new music director of the New York Philharmonic, said that because of Mr. Vilar's discontinuation of support, he was forced to put up his own money and seek other sources for the $700,000 needed to pay for the final stages of the Maazel-Vilar Conductors Competition, scheduled for next week at Carnegie Hall. 
 In addition, the Vilar/Domingo Young Artist Program at the Washington Opera in Washington D.C. has removed Mr. Vilar's name from the program because he has yet to come through on his $1 million pledge. "I can't have his name on it because he didn't fund it," said Michael Sonnenreich, president of the opera. 
By the standards of Mr. Vilar's giving -- $225 million in arts philanthropy worldwide -- $1.7 million to two arts organizations may not seem like much. But to arts groups around the world, it is bound to raise concern, given that many were already worried that Mr. Vilar would not be able to meet his commitments given his fund's performance.
"I am still on the hook," Mr. Vilar said of his commitment to the Maazel competition. "And I'm still going to give them money. I certainly have not walked away from this at all."
Mr. Vilar also noted that he had recently been distracted by several surgeries involving his spine and gall bladder. 
Other arts organizations that have heavy commitments from Mr. Vilar include the Metropolitan Opera, which is awaiting his annual payment as well as his promised support for the ambitious production of "War and Peace" presented at the Met last season. Mr. Vilar has also pledged $20 million to the Met's endowment fund, which is due on Jan. 31, 2003. 
Because Mr. Vilar's Amerindo Technology Fund has decreased by nearly 50 percent each year for the last three years, there has been wide speculation in the arts world that he would default on several of his extravagant pledges to cultural organizations. There is uneasiness in classical music circles, for example, that Mr. Vilar may be late on payments to the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the Salzburg Music Festival, the Kirov Opera and Royal Opera House at Covent Garden and that he may have failed to pay for the supertitles he had installed at the Vienna State Opera. 
In a telephone interview from Canada, Mr. Vilar said the allegations were simply an ugly attempt to bring a generous man down. But he also acknowledged that he was out of touch with his payments. "I'm sure I have made most of my payments," he said. "Some payments were so large I asked to reschedule them. Last summer I made one new payment I can think of."
Regarding Washington Opera, Mr. Vilar said: "I frankly am not on top of the status of the payments. But I wouldn't doubt I have not sent them money in the last six to nine months." About the Lyric, he said: "I don't have the facts. I still have payments to be made to them."
At the Washington Opera, Mr. Sonnenreich said he felt he had to remove Mr. Vilar's name from the young artists program so that other potential donors could step forward. The program, started in March 2002, costs $1 million a year. Mr. Sonnenreich said that Mr. Vilar had committed to a five-year contract and that he realized, going over budgets this summer, that Mr. Vilar's money was supposed to come in and had not. Mr. Sonnenreich said Mr. Vilar "was approached by several people" from the opera about his payment.
Mr. Vilar said he heard from no one. "I think he should have called me up," he said of Mr. Sonnenreich. "If he changed the name to attract other sponsors -- great."
For the Maazel/Vilar competition, Mr. Vilar has contributed about $700,000. Mr. Maazel said he realized over the summer that he had to find alternative financing. "There seemed to be some indication that there might be a problem last June," he said. "I spoke to Alberto and he seemed confident that things could be sorted out. By August there was not much of a solution in sight."
Mr. Maazel said he then set up a charitable trust to receive contributions for another phase of the competition, another $700,000, much of which he donated himself. "I'm acting in the wings as a co-sponsor, if you will," Mr. Maazel said. "That certainly wasn't my expectation, but I don't mind."
Mr. Vilar said that help from outside donors was always part of the plan. "It was expected there would be sponsors along the way," he said. "That is business as usual."
When Mr. Vilar's early investments in high-tech stocks like Microsoft and America Online made him a billionaire in the mid-1990's, he began his arts philanthropy. 
In addition to donating to the Met's endowment fund, Mr. Vilar promised to underwrite 10 productions at about $2 million each. He gave $17 million toward the renovation of the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden; $14 million to the Kirov Opera; $10 million to build the Vilar Center for the Arts in Beaver Creek, Colo., to which he also pledged $1 million a year for performance fees; and $50 million to the Kennedy Center in Washington -- the largest ever to be donated to the institution -- for an arts management training program and 10 visits from the Kirov.
Other arts groups that have benefited from Mr. Vilar's largesse include the Salzburg Festival, the Los Angeles Opera, Carnegie Hall and the Bayreuth Festival. 
Mr. Vilar also supports several medical and educational institutions. 
As an expansive donor, Mr. Vilar has been known to make various demands on his beneficiaries, namely recognition in programs and on posters, or having parts of opera houses named after him. He also receives front-row seats. 
Mr. Vilar has also supported his favorite musicians or administrators, namely Placido Domingo, artistic director of the Washington Opera and the Los Angeles Opera.
When Mr. Vilar gave $250,000 to the New York Philharmonic to underwrite performances of the Verdi Requiem and started the $5-million Maazel competition, there was some speculation that he had influenced the choice of Mr. Maazel as the Philharmonic's new music director last year, though he and the Philharmonic have denied that.
In offering to support the San Francisco Opera, Mr. Vilar demanded that it choose between two of his candidates for general director -- Sarah Billinghurst, the Metropolitan Opera's assistant manager for artistic issues, or Gerard Mortier, director of the Salzburg Festival. When neither was chosen, Mr. Vilar shifted his backing to the Los Angeles Opera, where Mr. Domingo had just become artistic director. 
Born to a sugar company executive, Mr. Vilar lived in Cuba until he was 9, then moved to Puerto Rico. At 18, he he moved to the United States. He studied economics at Washington and Jefferson College in Washington, Pa., and earned his master's in economics at Iona College.
After two years in the United States Army, he worked briefly for Citibank before working at several small investment companies and starting Amerindo Investment Advisors with Gary Tanaka.
Mr. Vilar said arts groups should be focusing on the good he has contributed to culture. "I've done something to leave a legacy," he said.
Indeed, despite having to dip into his own pocket, Mr. Maazel said he harbored no ill will. "We can all be grateful to him for the contribution he made," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alberto W. Vilar, who is probably the world's leading patron of opera and classical music, in his seat at the Metropolitan Opera House. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); CHARITIES (89%); OPERA (89%); PHILANTHROPY (87%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%) MUSIC; PHILANTHROPY; GIFTS; MAAZEL-VILAR CONDUCTORS COMPETITION; OPERA; CLASSICAL MUSIC 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC; WASHINGTON OPERA 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN; VILAR, ALBERTO W; MAAZEL, LORIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



503 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Transit Links Called Vital To a Revival of Downtown 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The rebuilding of Lower Manhattan requires making direct transit links to Kennedy and Newark airports, burying West Street and erecting a major transportation center, a group of business and real estate officials say in a paper that is to be released today.
 The six-page white paper identifies a number of what it calls essential transportation projects, ranging from ferries to Long Island Rail Road service. New York needs to retain the financial district and attract new businesses and build housing downtown, according to the paper, being issued by the Alliance for Downtown New York, the Association for a Better New York, the Real Estate Board of New York and the New York City Partnership. 
 Not all of the proposals in the paper are new. The four big business and real estate groups that are releasing the paper seem intent on using it to focus and speed the debate over downtown revitalization, which has often been mired in discussions about building designs, memorials and how many skyscrapers the developer Larry A. Silverstein should build on the World Trade Center site. 
"We all know there has to be a wonderful memorial on the site," said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board, a trade group for one of the city's most powerful industries. "The market will dictate how many buildings Larry Silverstein builds on the site. But none of that matters if we don't do the infrastructure."
That was a point made earlier this week by Patrice Derrington, a vice president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, when she said, "The reconnection of this area to the rest of the world begins first with transportation." She also suggested building high-speed rail links to Newark Liberty and Kennedy International Airports.
Mr. Spinola and the other executives say that Lower Manhattan has played a crucial role in the city's and the state's economies. The area is often described in real estate circles as the third largest business district in the country, behind Midtown Manhattan and Chicago. But over 50 years, Lower Manhattan has lost jobs to Midtown and New Jersey because it lacks direct access to Westchester County, Long Island and other parts of the region.
The groups also expressed some nervousness about the New York Stock Exchange's plans to build a second trading floor outside Manhattan, either in Westchester or in another borough. They said the exchange, the symbolic center of the financial district, has to be persuaded to stay downtown.
"I think it's imperative that Lower Manhattan remain the financial capital of the city and this country," said William Rudin, chairman of the Association for a Better New York.
In the last year, the region has been battered by the trade center attack, a recession and the relocation of major downtown employers like Lehman Brothers, Morgan Stanley and Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield. Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, contends that the city and the state must bolster the financial district and attract other large and small companies to the area. 
The main way that will happen, he said, is by companies' seeing new transportation projects that will make Lower Manhattan more accessible. "The business community believes strongly that the chief goal here has to be to maintain and enhance downtown as a world-class business district," Mr. Weisbrod said. "The way to do that is to focus on building the necessary infrastructure to assure that happens." 
Madelyn G. Wils, chairwoman of the local community board, said she endorsed many points in the position paper, although some community board members had expressed reservations about construction problems related to digging a tunnel for West Street. Like Mr. Weisbrod, Ms. Wils is a director of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation.
The groups' paper calls for building 8,000 apartments south of Canal Street, schools, recreation space and a performing arts center. But the groups say office space and cultural institutions, not housing, should be built on the trade center site itself.
The groups said the footprint of the twin towers should be considered sacred ground, but unlike some families of the victims, they believe that commuter train networks could be built below the surface. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); AIRPORTS (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); AIRLINES (73%); RECESSION (73%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); RELOCATIONS (67%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; RAILROADS; SUBWAYS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NJ); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE FOR DOWNTOWN NEW YORK; ASSN FOR A BETTER NEW YORK; REAL ESTATE BOARD OF NEW YORK; NEW YORK CITY PARTNERSHIP 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



504 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Post 0.3% Rise, But U.S. Trade Deficit Narrows 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in August, the largest advance in four months, the government reported today, lifted by higher costs for energy products, clothing and tobacco. 
 The advance in the Consumer Price Index, the government's most closely watched inflation gauge, followed a 0.1 percent rise in July, the Labor Department reported. 
 The core rate of inflation -- excluding energy and food prices, which tend to bounce around from month to month -- also rose 0.3 percent in August, up from a 0.2 percent increase in July. 
"Inflation is not yet flashing red, but a lighter shade of yellow," said Richard Yamarone, an economist with the Argus Research Corporation.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department reported today that the trade deficit declined to $34.6 billion in July as exports rose for a fifth consecutive month, helped by a record level of overseas sales of American-made cars and parts.
The July trade deficit, on a seasonally adjusted basis, showed an improvement of 6 percent from a revised June imbalance of $36.8 billion. It was the second consecutive monthly improvement after the deficit hit a high of $37.7 billion in May. For the year so far, however, the deficit is running at an annual rate of $412 billion, far above last year's deficit of $358 billion.
But analysts said that the five months of improvements in exports were encouraging, reflecting a decline in the value of the dollar, which has made American farm products and manufactured goods more competitive.
For July, American exports of goods and services rose 1.3 percent, to $83.2 billion, the fifth consecutive increase. Exports of automotive products -- vehicles and parts -- rose 6.5 percent, to a record level of $7.09 billion.
Sales of farm products rose 1.2 percent, to $4.3 billion, the highest level in nearly five years, with shipments of soybeans and wheat showing big increases.
Imports of goods and services fell 1 percent, to $117.8 billion in July, even though imports of foreign food products were up 2.6 percent, to a record level of $4.2 billion, reflecting increases in demand for foreign meat and cane and beet sugar.
America's foreign oil bill rose 1.2 percent, to $7.2 billion, the highest since May.
In the inflation report, the latest readings were slightly worse than the 0.2 percent rise that many analysts had predicted for overall inflation and the core inflation rate. 
The 0.3 percent rise in overall consumer prices in August was the largest increase since April, when they rose 0.5 percent.
Energy prices rose 0.6 percent last month, after a 0.4 percent increase in July.
The report showed that fuel oil prices shot up 2.1 percent in August. Electricity costs went up 0.6 percent, and gasoline prices rose 0.5 percent. Natural gas prices fell 0.3 percent. 
For the first eight months of this year, overall consumer prices rose at an annual rate of 2.7 percent, compared with a 1.6 percent increase for all of 2001. A big factor behind this advance is rising energy prices. Last year, energy prices fell 13 percent. So far this year, they are rising at a rate of 13.5 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (88%); US DOLLAR (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (74%); FUEL MARKETS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); MEATS (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



505 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Cash Diverted From Research On the Spine 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
In July 1998, Gov. George E. Pataki signed into law a program devoting part of the state's traffic fines to research on spinal cord injuries, a measure that was promoted by Christopher Reeve and other well-known paralyzed people.
 Most of the money that was earmarked for that research went unspent, and this year, at Mr. Pataki's behest, the state raided the program's trust fund, putting most of the money into the state's General Fund. The raid occurred as progress in spinal cord injury treatment, and Mr. Reeve's own small but remarkable advances after years of paralysis, have been very much in the news. The actor, whose neck was broken in a horseback-riding accident almost seven years ago, is profiled in the current issue of People magazine, and he is taking part this month in a series of events to draw attention to spinal injuries, including a fund-raiser next week to mark his 50th birthday. 
 An administration spokesman said in an e-mail message that the governor intended to restore the money, though that is not a binding commitment. The spokesman, John Signor, said New York "takes a back seat to no one in its support for outstanding spinal cord injury research."
H. Carl McCall, who is running against the governor, said the program was "yet another sad example of George Pataki's rhetoric not matching his real record." He said, "Governor Pataki has raided more than five times as much from the Spinal Cord Injury Research Trust Fund than he has spent on research to help people."
This story parallels one that the campaign of Mr. Pataki, a Republican, has been using to attack Mr. McCall, a Democrat. A 1999 state law authorized Mr. McCall as state comptroller to invest a fraction of the state pension fund in economic development in New York, but two years into the program, he has spent very little of the money, and much of what has been spent has gone out of state. In each case, the charge is that the official has not lived up to the program's promise or used the money in the intended way. And in each case, the response is, in part, that getting a sophisticated new program running is difficult, that worthy places to invest can be hard to find and that it is more important to spend the money well than to spend it quickly.
Mr. Reeve, a member of the program's advisory board, said that when he learned that money had been siphoned out of the program, he contacted Mr. Pataki and Dr. Antonia C. Novello, the state health commissioner. He said they both assured him that the program would be fully financed in the future but did not promise to replace the money that was taken out.
"It does concern me," he said of the slow pace of spending. "I believe that in New York State, the individual grant program is not as strong as it should be. It may be because there are not enough research scientists, as yet, who are working on spinal cord injuries."
Mr. Signor said in his e-mail message, "It has been the board's policy to fund only projects of the highest merit, even if that did not result in spending $8.5 million every year," the annual allocation provided in the law. He said the state would invest $15 million over the next five years to create a center for spinal cord injury research and treatment, at an existing hospital.
Despite the two-year economic downturn, the state's current, election-year budget sharply increases spending, and spends far more money than the state is taking in. To accomplish that, Mr. Pataki proposed, and the Legislature agreed, to take not only the billions of dollars they had socked away in "rainy day" funds, but also hundreds of millions of dollars that had accumulated in dozens of accounts for specific programs.
Among them was $13.5 million from the spinal cord fund, most of that fund's balance. The money was there because the state had spent just $2 million of the $25.5 million it had deposited in the fund. The Department of Health has announced $10.7 million in grant awards, but has signed contracts for only about half that amount, and even most of the contracted money has not been spent.
In raiding such funds, the state often makes a commitment, on paper, to restoring them at some point in the future if the money is needed -- usually by draining an account for another program -- and it made such a commitment in this case. The money is usually not returned, though.
State Senator Vincent Leibell, a Republican who was the author of the legislation that created the program, said at first that he was not aware that most of the money had gone unspent and had been swept into the General Fund, and he was upset to hear it. Later, after checking with state officials about the fund, he said he had been assured that the money would be restored.
"I'd be more than disappointed if they don't," he said. "This is a fairly sensitive thing. If they don't put it back, they'll hear about it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPINAL CORD INJURIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PARALYSIS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%) SPINE (BODY PART); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); RESEARCH 

PERSON: REEVE, CHRISTOPHER; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); SIGNOR, JOHN; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); NOVELLO, ANTONIA C (COMR); PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



506 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: City Ends Talks for Developers To Build S.I. Movie Studios 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
New York City officials broke off talks yesterday with a development group including the actor Danny Aiello that had planned to build film studios and a waterfront commercial complex at the site of the former Navy home port in Stapleton, on Staten Island.
 The city ended its discussions with the developers "based on information received from the Department of Investigation with respect to a participant in the negotiations," said Michael Sherman, a spokesman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, which controls the property. He would not elaborate. 
 But Marlowe R. Walker, the managing director of the development group, volunteered in an interview that his son, Marlowe R. Walker 3rd, had been convicted this year on a charge of conspiracy to commit stock fraud and sentenced to four months of home detention, adding that his son had been "truly, truly wrongly accused."
"He is not a partner, he is not an owner," the elder Mr. Walker said. "It has nothing to do with me."
The other partners in the project were William J. Catacosinos, former chairman of the Long Island Lighting Company; Robert E. DiMilia; and Brian Palmer. The developers said they had spent $2 million to convert half of one building at the port into a sound stage, where the movie "Max and Grace" is to go into production tomorrow. Mr. Walker said that production would continue under an occupancy permit that runs through October.
He and Mr. Aiello said they thought officials had been seeking an excuse to remove their group. "If that's their reason, it's a pretty weak reason," Mr. Walker said.
Mr. Aiello criticized the way the announcement was made. "Does this not make me and my partners look like one of the indicted people?" he said last night. "They say, 'You're gone,' but they don't permit us the opportunity of knowing who it is. If they're ending our stay here, how could they not say the reason why?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); FILM (90%); CITIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INDICTMENTS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); HOUSE ARREST (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); SENTENCING (69%) MOTION PICTURES; STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC); INVESTIGATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (68%); NG (LSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (68%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (68%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (68%)

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; AIELLO, DANNY; SHERMAN, MICHAEL; WALKER, MARLOWE R; WALKER, MARLOWE R 3D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



507 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Software: General Magic To Shut Its Operations 

BYLINE:  By Laurie J. Flynn (NYT) (Compiled by Gary Bradford) 

 BODY:
 General Magic of Sunnyvale, Calif., announced yesterday that it would cease operations effective immediately because it had been unsuccessful at raising additional capital or arranging a merger. Kathleen Layton, the president and chief executive, said the decision stemmed from continued poor economic conditions along with the slow pace of corporate spending on information technology. The company, which makes Internet voice technology, said 15 General Magic employees would be retained for 60 days by OnStar, the Web-based driver assistance service from General Motors, to help transfer the operation of OnStar Virtual Adviser to another vendor.
 Laurie J. Flynn (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (86%); ROADSIDE SERVICES (83%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MAGIC INC 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%) SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH; 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



508 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
KODAK STICKS TO ITS SECOND-HALF ESTIMATE

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 The Eastman Kodak Company, the photography company, reiterated its second-half profit forecast and told investors the sluggish economic recovery would hamper sales growth. 
Second-half profit will be $1.35 to $1.75 a share. Third-quarter profit excluding some one-time gains will be 70 cents to 80 cents a share, the chief executive, Dan Carp, said at the annual investors' meeting in New York. Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call expected 70 cents. Mr. Carp raised cash flow estimates and said promotions for digital cameras and services would keep sales from falling. The company did not give a specific forecast for sales but said annual revenue would grow 3 percent to 5 percent once the economy recovered. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); CASH FLOW (88%); SALES PROJECTIONS (88%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (86%); EXECUTIVES (54%) 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%) SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



509 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 84 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Australia: Slowdown Projected 

BYLINE:  By Wayne Arnold (NYT) 

 BODY:
 One of Australia's leading economic barometers fell in July for the first time since 1994, raising concerns that the country's commodity-driven economy might finally be succumbing to the effects of the slowdown in the United States. The drop in the monthly Westpac Banking Corporation/Melbourne Institutes index of economic activity suggests slower growth toward the end of this year, economists said, despite surveys showing that business and consumer confidence remain strong.
 Wayne Arnold (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (86%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: WESTPAC BANKING CORP (72%)

TICKER: WBK (NYSE) (72%); WBC (NZX) (72%); WBC (ASX) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (73%) AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



510 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Arming the Arms Inspectors 

BYLINE:  By Jessica T. Mathews and Charles G. Boyd; Jessica T. Mathews is president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Gen. Charles G. Boyd is a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and president of Business Executives for National Security.

 BODY:
If the United Nations Security Council rushes to send inspectors back into Iraq on Baghdad's promise of cooperation and under the old rules, it will be playing a chump's game, one Saddam Hussein has won countless times. Once in, the inspectors will face delay, obstruction, bugging and a succession of manufactured crises. These will prompt familiar fights among the major powers over whether a particular Iraqi act constitutes a major violation. Soon the United States will declare the whole exercise a failure and invade Iraq.
 That is an outcome worth avoiding. For the United States, the costs of such a war include the death of soldiers, economic losses caused by the effect of soaring oil prices on a fragile stock market, the need to post tens of thousands of troops in Iraq for many years, lingering resentment among allies whose cooperation we need and the near certainty of creating legions of new terrorists who hate America. For the United Nations, the result would be a terrible defeat, an admission of weakness and of its inability to impose its writ on a villain. For the world as a whole, the costs will include the deaths of innocent Iraqis, increased repression in Arab states coping with domestic political anger and possibly chaos in the region. 
 That is the short list. The worst-case outcomes include an attack with biological weapons on Israel and on American troops at their weakest moment -- as they assemble in the region -- by a man with nothing to lose. What would be the likely response by both countries, and with what long-term consequence?
There is a credible alternative to these scenarios that is worth trying. It is a new system of coercive inspections to replace the game of cat and mouse that Mr. Hussein has perfected. The Security Council would create a powerful, American-led multinational military force, the inspections implementation force, that would enable the inspection teams to carry out "comply or else" inspections. If Iraq refused to accept, or obstructed the inspections, regime change (preferably under a United Nations mandate) would be back on the table.
This force would be strong enough to ensure that inspectors see what they want, when they want, including sites previously designated off limits, with full security for the inspectors. A key is establishment of both "no flight" and "no drive" zones in the region where an inspection is being conducted. Air and armored cavalry forces would provide the ground strength. Intelligence is crucial. The force would be provided with a complete range of reconnaissance, surveillance, listening, encryption and photo-interpretation capabilities, from spy-plane pictures to intelligence gathered on the ground by spies from United Nations member states. True surprise inspections and prompt entry would be the norm, not the lucky exception. 
Overall control would be vested in the civilian chairman of the inspection teams who would determine, without interference from the Security Council, what is to be inspected. The force commander would decide the size and composition of the detachment to accompany any particular inspection and direct its employment.
We have worked with others -- including Rolf Ekeus, who led inspections in Iraq from 1991 to 1997 -- to develop the coercive-inspections concept, covering its political, technical and military aspects. This would not be easy as a military mission, but it would be less difficult than a war and more likely to improve our security. While states in the region would not welcome such a military presence, it would be preferable to a war.
The necessary preconditions are probably the most difficult part. The United States would have to focus unequivocally on the threat Iraq poses -- its weapons of mass destruction -- rather than on Saddam Hussein's many other transgressions. It would have to make an explicit, unambiguous pledge to forswear a war for regime change for as long as inspections are working. ("Inspections" would include a discovery and disarmament phase followed by open-ended monitoring and verification.) Otherwise, the inspection force would be nothing more than a Trojan horse for an invasion force, something Iraq would have to refuse. 
For their part, other countries would have to refuse Iraq's seductive offer. They would have to act on what they all know: that Saddam Hussein will try to obstruct inspections, and that every point of potential disagreement they leave open is an opportunity Baghdad will seize. Instead, they and the United States have to enact a plan that says the time for negotiating with Baghdad is over and, using a credible threat of force, under multilateral auspices, at last insist on Iraq's compliance with a goal they can universally support.
Iraq's weapons of mass destruction pose a pressing threat but not an immediate one. There is time to do this right and no reason to choose war as a first resort. If the goal is Iraq's disarmament, there is a peaceful means to achieve it.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an Op-Ed article yesterday by Jessica T. Mathews and Charles G. Boyd about the need for coercive inspections in Iraq contained added language that does not represent the authors' views. They would strongly oppose the use of United Nations weapons inspectors as spies.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Eric Palma) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ESPIONAGE (83%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ARMIES (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (67%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) MATHEWS, JESSICA T; BOYD, CHARLES G; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



511 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: The German Problem 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At a meeting in the Axel Springer building in Hamburg on Aug. 27 with about 30 American friends of Germany, the defense minister who had been recently booted out of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's cabinet for financial irregularities was asked why Germany was so loudly opposed to President Bush's campaign to oust Saddam Hussein.
 Rudolf Scharping reported that he had answered that very question in a Schroder cabinet meeting: it was all about the Jews. Bush was motivated to overthrow Saddam by his need to curry favor with what Scharping called "a powerful -- perhaps overly powerful -- Jewish lobby" in the coming U.S. elections. Jeb Bush needed their votes in Florida as George Pataki did in New York, and Congressional redistricting made Jewish votes central to control of Congress. Germany, the discredited minister said proudly to his discomfited audience, had rejected such pandering. 
 That bigoted political analysis is typical of the way Germany is undermining its Atlantic alliance. Today, Schroder -- campaigning for re-election Sunday -- seems eager to be more pro-Arab than the Arab League. Not even if the U.N.'s Kofi Annan himself grabbed a rifle and led the charge would his Germany send one soldier to depose Saddam. 
The dismaying fact is that poll-driven German politicians are certain that such thumbing noses at the U.S. is the key to political victory. Schroder is using it to distract voters from 10 percent unemployment, 0.5 percent growth and a dispute about his hair color. His semi-conservative opponent, Edmund Stoiber, tut-tuts about anti-Americanism but is afraid to take a stand against the Hitler of the Persian Gulf.
No matter who wins, the German-American relationship loses. Our response cannot be to mutter "how sharper than a serpent's tooth" and demand a refund of the Marshall Plan. It should be to reassess the need for our troop presence in Europe, which a half-century ago was "to keep Russia out, Germany down and America in." With Russia in and Germany up, should America get out?
Of 120,000 U.S. military in Europe, over 70,000 are in Germany (including those in heavy tanks and other outmoded equipment confronting a Red Army that isn't there). An equal number of dependents are in Europe with them, spending U.S. dollars.
Why? Defense officials tell me in classic Pentagonese that we are already "reconfiguring our footprint" -- that is, reviewing deployment of our troops globally to make us capable of applying mobile force anywhere rather than to sit in place to meet any specific threat. That's part of the "lily pad concept," on the analogy of frogs hopping around a number of forward bases, "and no slur intended to the French."
But is Germany any longer an American forward base? If the Russian bear growls, can't the German eagle shriek? On Oct. 1, our European Command will be extended south all the way to the Cape of Good Hope. Perhaps there are lily pads on which to station troops and position supplies closer to flash points where action may be needed.
And in the coming reconfiguration, what about our overseas armed forces' freedom of action? The Saudis have long threatened restriction of our use of bases there, which caused us to build a Qatar lily pad. Would Germany, turned militantly anti-military, also prove unreliable as a jumping-off point in a crisis? 
I can understand why Germans, having chosen welfare over defense, bridle at superpower hegemony. I bridle at German book-publishing hegemony. Few Americans realize that two huge German Gesellschaften are gaining a stranglehold on U.S. books.
Bertelsmann owns Random House, which means Alfred Knopf, Anchor, Ballantine, Crown, Doubleday, Bantam, Dell, Dial, Fawcett, and the combined Book of the Month Club and Literary Guild. The von Holtzbrinck Group owns Farrar, Straus; Henry Holt (including half of Times Books); and St. Martin's Press. You can bet a German-owned publisher is going to get "Mein Kampf Over Inspection" by Saddam Hussein.
Do I resent this unilateral cultural imperialism by literary tycoons in the Fatherland? Every red-blooded American author does. But I also see it driven by a laudable profit motive, not by any need of Germany to pander to its Muslim lobby.
The rise of anti-Americanism in Germany is a minor problem for Americans, who can pull up stakes. It is a big problem for Germans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US DOLLAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); REDISTRICTING (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (57%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



512 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Needing Each Other 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: PYONGYANG, North Korea, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Even at the level of a Potemkin village, Pyongyang fails to work anymore. Feet are the principal means of locomotion along the capital's broad, traffic-free avenues. At the city's clunky neo-Victorian main train station, the posted schedule of arrivals and departures is as chock-full as ever, but even at rush hour, no train is in sight, and there are few ostensible passengers. 
 It is this kind of pressing need that apparently has driven one of the world's most reclusive governments -- and one that has vilified Japan, even more than the United States, for the past 54 years -- to change its tune. 
 But the summit meeting between Kim Jong Il, North Korea's leader, and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan was barely concluded on Tuesday before opinion split sharply on whether the meeting spelled a landmark change in the region, or whether it was a seeming breakthrough destined to go bust.
The summit meeting's achievements involved North Korea's confession that it had kidnapped 11 Japanese citizens, a variety of confidence-building measures and the promise of enormous aid from Japan. While those achievements may help the cold-war order here finally crumble, it is unclear whether they can prevent North Korea's descent into stunning want, or give Mr. Koizumi and his country returns for their promised largesse.
With his apology for the abuses of 35 years of colonial rule that ended in 1945, Mr. Koizumi jump-started the process of normalizing ties.
It was as startling for Northeast Asia as a decade ago when first Moscow, then Beijing, dropped the pretense of ideological solidarity with Communist North Korea, and -- fearful of missing out on lucrative business -- recognized the booming, capitalist South Korea.
Today, conversely, Japan is extending its hand to avert the potentially catastrophic free fall of a failing but militarily threatening Communist government. 
In the towering, gray high-rises on Changon Street, one of downtown Pyongyang's main avenues, and the address of many of the government's nominally privileged upper-middle level cadres, the electricity goes off at night, along with the running water. "This summit is one of the most extraordinary things I've ever seen," said one European diplomat. "My Korean staff didn't know anything about Koizumi coming until hours after he had gotten here. The only clue was that they turned the huge fountains on by the riverside." 
These days, Pyongyang relies almost entirely on a single petroleum-burning generator for its balky electricity supply, and it is an ancient Soviet model, so overworked that the diplomat said, "It is giving off thick columns of smoke half the time from places where smoke has no business coming from."
Chinese-made trolley cars from the 1950's still clank through the streets, but only sporadically these days, because their old power transmission wires are iron and snap with dismaying frequency from rust and age. 
The figure of $10 billion has been bandied about as the price Japan is willing to pay, under the official rubric of compensation for past abuses. But it is not clear whether the domestically embattled Mr. Koizumi, who has been accused of seeking only short-term political gain, will make any lasting geopolitical advance in exchange.
Mr. Koizumi's critics at home point to the timing of the summit meeting, stealing the spotlight in the very week when Japan's main opposition party is voting on a new president, and when Mr. Koizumi is expected to announce a long-predicted cabinet reshuffle. Until recently, antireform conservatives in Mr. Koizumi's Liberal Democratic Party had been expected to succeed in forcing him to stack his cabinet with old-guard figures. 
Mr. Koizumi's declining popularity shot up in the polls after his trip to North Korea was announced just over two weeks ago, briefly giving the prime minister potential leverage to name a government of his choosing.
In 48 hours of news broadcasts here, however, the deaths of at least 6 of the 11 Japanese officially reported missing in North Korea have so far overshadowed any supposed gains for the prime minister.
The deal has drawn unexpectedly harsh criticism inside Japan from sympathizers of relatives of the six Japanese abductees who North Korea confirmed are dead, after being kidnapped to school North Korean intelligence agents in the Japanese language and culture. 
Upon his return home, Mr. Koizumi was on the defensive. "I think there are points for which the government must repent," the prime minister told reporters, when asked to react to North Korea's admission that most of the abducted Japanese were no longer alive.
Another reported motive for the diplomacy that has persistently resurfaced -- despite official denials by both sides -- is serious chafing within government circles here over the perceived belligerence of the Bush administration toward North Korea.
Recently there have been strong rumblings in Tokyo about the need for Japan to move out of the United States' diplomatic shadow in this region, and for advocates of that line, North Korea stands out as a rare opportunity. 
According to this view, shared by people on the right and left in Japan, normalization with North Korea would help restore Japan's fading diplomatic credentials as a player on the world stage, ensure lucrative contracts for Japanese companies for years to come and match China's growing influence on the strategically important Korean peninsula. 
Capitalizing on ambitions like these, however, supposes far-reaching liberalization in North Korea that would go way beyond even relatively bold recent reforms of prices and wages introduced by North Korea in July.
"Koizumi walked straight into a land mine," said Robyn Lim, a professor of international politics at Nanzan University, in Nagoya. "The basic mistake many people are making is that this regime" -- in North Korea -- "can follow the example of China. For a variety of reasons, it cannot. Deng was able to do it because he was a Long Marcher who enjoyed a lot of cachet with the military. This regime's only preoccupation is preventing another Romania, and they keep finding dummies to give them money." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); COLD WAR (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); TRENDS (69%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) FOREIGN AID; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (73%) FRENCH, HOWARD W; KIM JONG IL; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



513 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DEVELOPMENT; 
Afghan Dream: A Smooth Road To Anywhere

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: PUL-I-CHARKI, Afghanistan, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
A while ago, Abdul Ahad pooled his savings with two fellow drivers, borrowed from relatives and friends, and came up with $10,000 to buy a secondhand truck from Pakistan. He runs cattle to Kabul, the capital, from grazing pastures in his home province of Laghman, in the mountains 100 miles to the east, and returns with tomatoes, onions and other vegetables from Kabul's markets.
 Two years later, the truck is about ready for the scrapyard, a battered, twisted, listing wreck of a vehicle, and Mr. Ahad, at 30, says he is not in terrific shape, either. 
 Both are victims of Afghanistan's diabolical roads, which subject all who travel on them to a torture of bone-shaking, dust-eating, tire-puncturing, suspension-breaking, snail's-pace days, on journeys that could be completed on paved surfaces in a matter of hours.
"I tell you, I've just about lost my mind on these roads," Mr. Ahad said as he set off earlier this week toward the gorges that guard the eastern approaches to Kabul, on the first leg of a journey home to Laghman.
After a tour of the truck's torn tires, cracked windows and wrenched chassis, he said he had been mesmerized by the trucks cruising American highways that he had glimpsed in the movies that have become a favorite of nighttime television here since the Taliban's downfall.
"If we could have roads that are even 100 times worse than America's, we would be the happiest of men," he said.
Not one in a dozen drivers questioned here at Pul-i-Charki, the gateway to the mountains, had heard that President Bush, meeting President Hamid Karzai last week on the sidelines of their United Nations visits, announced a $180 million program to begin rebuilding roads. Together with Japan and Saudi Arabia, the United States will finance reconstruction of 660 miles of highway that arcs west and south from Kabul to Kandahar, then northwest to Herat, near the border with Iran.
With potholes large enough to topple even the largest trucks, blasted bridges that lie in a tangled mess on riverbeds and a thick carpet of brown dust as fine as talcum powder, the roads are not so much a means of passage as an endurance test.
For Afghans, they are a symbol of the country's devastation in the two decades of conflict that culminated with the American bombing that toppled the Taliban. The delay in starting to rebuild them, 10 months after the Taliban fled, stands as a totem of the wavering in the richer world's resolve to help Afghanistan get back on its feet.
The Bush administration, frustrated at the reluctance of other nations to come forward with reconstruction funds they had pledged, is hoping that the money it committed will kick-start other road projects. The United States Agency for International Development, contributing about $80 million to the Kabul-Kandahar-Herat project, hopes to begin laying concrete before this winter. Afghan officials hope other projects can begin in the spring.
Western officials agree that rebuilding the roads is a top priority if Afghanistan is to knit together after years as a jigsaw of warring fiefs. One study, by the Asian Development Bank, estimated that $650 million will be needed over the next 30 months for the major roads alone.
The projects now being planned, including the Kabul-Kandahar-Herat road, involve about 1,100 miles of the country's 13,100 miles of roadway.
Other projects under negotiation include 135 miles from Kabul through Jalalabad to the Pakistan border at Torkham, to be financed by the European Union; 250 miles from Kabul north through the strategic Salang Pass in the Hindu Kush, on through Kunduz to the Amu Darya and across the border into Tajikistan, to be financed by the World Bank; and 65 miles from Kandahar to Spinbaldak, another border point with Pakistan, to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
By the late 1970's, the last time Afghanistan functioned as anything like a normal nation, the country had one of the region's best networks, thanks in part to three highways that came from the rivalry of the cold war. One was the 300-mile Kabul-to-Kandahar road, called "the Eisenhower highway" when it was built by the United States in the 1950's. Two other strategic roads were built by the Soviet Union, the 350 miles from Kandahar to Herat, and the 300 miles from Kabul through the Salang Pass to Mazar-i-Sharif and Termez, on the border with Uzbekistan.
Almost the only roadway that has survived with a paved surface that can be driven at anything more than a crawl is the one that from Kabul to Termez -- and that is owed, paradoxically, to the disaster that destroyed all the others: the Soviet military invasion of the 1980's. Because it linked Kabul to the Soviet homeland, the Termez road was maintained when tank columns were tearing up the others. On most other highways, without a vestige of asphalt left, vehicles ride up and down huge swales, like riding a rowboat in a storm-tossed sea.
As matters stand, just about the only road work being done is by bands of self-appointed repairmen, men and boys who scrape a living out of a kind of street theater. Staking claim to a stretch of destroyed highway, they slow cars with a sort of maintenance charade, along with shouted promises of prayers to Allah for the safety of the passing traffic. The tips pushed through drivers' windows appear to be less for any improvement the repairmen effect than for the heartening effect of the show.
One such crew, working in the Sorobi Gorges east of Kabul, is headed by Mahsal, a 14-year-old boy who spends up to 12 hours a day with two friends, with one battered shovel between them, going through the motions of filling huge potholes in a surface that is more rock quarry than road. Now and then, the youths push an offending boulder into a ravine, or wave an old table-tennis paddle at the oncoming tumult of trucks, buses and cars. The aim is to delay vehicles long enough to shame drivers into handing over a few crumpled Afghan banknotes. They collect about 65 cents a day each, which helps sustain their families in Kabul. 
Once the roads are rebuilt, Mahsal and his companions will be out of work. But when he was asked if he welcomed the American announcement that work on at least one highway is to begin soon, he took the longer view. 
Reaching into the grab bag of fractured English words that many young Afghans have learned, he said he was happy to know that America's top man -- Doublebush, as he called him -- had made his move. "Doublebush is a good man," Mahsal said. "But what we want to know is, why did he take so long?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Decades of war have ruined Afghanistan's roads, making for harrowing bus trips over jerry-built bridges. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Mahsal, part of a boyish "repair crew," seeks handouts from truckers for looking industrious.; What used to be a bridge in Salang Pass in northern Afghanistan. The United States, Japan and Saudi Arabia plan a $180 million rebuilding program. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A23) Map of Afghanistan highlighting Pul-i-Chakri: At Pul-i-Chakri, drivers gather to compare tales of terrible travel. (pg. A23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); TALIBAN (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MOUNTAINS (77%); BOMBINGS (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; ROADS AND TRAFFIC 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); HAMAD KARZAI (54%) BURNS, JOHN F; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (95%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); JAPAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



514 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: STRATEGY; 
Rumsfeld Says Other Nations Promise to Aid Attack on Iraq

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said today that a number of countries had privately pledged direct military support for any offensive against Iraq. His assertion that opposition to Saddam Hussein's rule had gained broader international support came just hours after Congressional leaders said a vote would be held before the November election on whether to authorize President Bush to take whatever military action he deems necessary.
 In his testimony in Congress today, Mr. Rumsfeld argued vociferously that weapons inspections in Iraq would be unlikely to lead to the elimination of its weapons of mass destruction. At the White House, President Bush dismissed Mr. Hussein's offer to allow international inspectors back into Iraq as a "ploy" that is "not going to fool anybody." 
 The White House said it would send to Congress as early as Thursday the wording of a proposed resolution authorizing action. But Mr. Bush and his aides were clearly worried today that Mr. Hussein's new offer could delay -- and perhaps blow off course -- their effort to force both the rapid disarmament of Iraq and the fall of its government. 
Speaking on a day that Congress disclosed strong evidence that the intelligence agencies missed signals of an impending terrorist attack last year, Mr. Rumsfeld used his appearance in Congress today to turn the argument around. He maintained that this time the administration was "connecting the dots" on Iraq before that country had a chance to use weapons of mass destruction or put them in the hands of terrorists.
"The dots are there for all to connect," Mr. Rumsfeld said. "If they aren't good enough, rest assured they will only be good enough after another disaster." By then, he said, "it will be too late."
With midterm elections less than two months away, that argument seemed to be swaying Democrats. Emerging from a breakfast meeting with Mr. Bush, the four top leaders of Congress appeared in agreement that a resolution would begin making its way through committees by the middle of next week, and the scrutiny turned to wording of the resolution.
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the minority leader, said he believed that the resolution would focus on authority to eliminate biological, chemical and nuclear weapons rather than the ouster of Mr. Hussein. 
"I think we're focused on the most immediate threat, which is growing worse every day," Mr. Lott said. One Republican strategist said the language would be carefully calibrated to avoid hurting the administration's cause before the United Nations. 
In fact, Mr. Rumsfeld argued that Congress should pass a resolution of support before the United Nations Security Council acts. 
"Delaying a vote in Congress would send the wrong message, in my view, just as we are asking the international community to take a stand and as we are cautioning the Iraqi regime to respond and consider its options," he said.
Throughout the day, in public and behind the scenes, the administration mounted a fierce campaign to portray Iraq's sudden invitation to inspectors -- who have been banned by Iraq for three and a half years -- as a predictable and dangerous delaying tactic, devised by Mr. Hussein in an effort to split the United Nations Security Council.
Mr. Bush, speaking in detail for the first time about the Iraqi offer, said of Mr. Hussein: "He deceives, he delays, he denies. And the United States and, I'm convinced, the world community, aren't going to fall for that kind of rhetoric by him again."
The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, read a statement by the former chief United Nations arms inspector, Richard Butler, who called the Iraqi offer "a very snaky letter." Again quoting Mr. Butler, Mr. Fleischer suggested that without completely unfettered access to Iraqi installations, a new inspection team would not have " 'a snowball's chance in hell' of establishing whether Iraq had nuclear, chemical or germ weapons."
Mr. Bush plans to call President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia soon, administration officials said, in hopes of reversing Russia's public position that no new United Nations resolution -- with strict deadlines and penalties for noncompliance -- is needed before inspectors return to Iraq. The officials said Mr. Bush might be able to reverse that view with assurances to Mr. Putin that if Mr. Hussein is deposed, any new Iraqi government would pay the $8 billion or so that Iraq now owes to Moscow.
Meanwhile, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell was discussing wording for a proposed Security Council resolution with British officials. Britain is expected to sponsor the planned resolution, and the White House is clearly hoping to win passage in the next 10 days or so, before an inspection schedule is set. 
Publicly, Mr. Bush's aides expressed confidence that after another round of diplomacy at the United Nations, they would obtain a resolution setting short deadlines and specific penalties for defiance.
But in private, they fumed about Secretary General Kofi Annan. Mr. Annan, they contended, had never consulted with Security Council members before accepting the letter from Iraq allowing inspectors back in, and they said he had undercut the effort to force a different kind of inspection by appearing to take the Iraqi offer at face value.
The most dramatic statement from Mr. Rumsfeld, during more than three hours of testimony before the House Armed Services Committee, was his disclosure that if Mr. Bush decided to attack Iraq, others would join.
"There will be other countries assisting the United States of America in the event that the United States of America decides that that is the only course available," he said.
"A number of countries," he said without disclosing which ones, have told the Bush administration that "they will cooperate in a variety of different ways" -- even without United Nations approval of military action. He said the aid would include troops, bases, overflight rights and economic contributions.
Earlier this week, a senior economic adviser to Mr. Bush estimated that war with Iraq could cost $100 billion to $200 billion, though the White House has since distanced itself from that estimate.
Mr. Rumsfeld said that, in anticipation of a feared American offensive, Iraq had deployed troops and weapons near schools, hospitals and mosques either to deter an attack or to take advantage of civilian deaths in a propaganda war. 
Protesters briefly interrupted Mr. Rumsfeld's testimony when they chanted, "Inspections, not war!" The Capitol police escorted three women, two carrying signs, from the hearing. 
Mr. Rumsfeld also said that a war with Iraq would require the mobilization of additional members of the National Guard and Reserve, but he said there was no consideration of reinstating the draft. The Pentagon said 72,269 members of the Guard and Reserve were on duty today.
Pressed on the economic burden of any war with Iraq, Mr. Rumsfeld said "other countries undoubtedly would contribute" financial assistance. But he also stressed that the harm terrorists could wreak on the American economy would make a potential offensive against Mr. Hussein inexpensive by comparison.
"The cost compared to 9/11 is so insignificant, compared to the loss of lives, compared to the billions of dollars that were lost in material things and in market values and in disruptions in people's lives, in not being able to fly or go places or do things, in the concerns of families -- and it would be modest, to be sure," he said.
In Iraq, Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz said Mr. Rumsfeld's remarks showed that Washington was looking for a pretext for "a criminal attack" on Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Interrupting Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, protesters yesterday chanted, "Inspections, not war!" (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Meeting with reporters outside the White House yesterday after a breakfast session with President Bush were, from left, Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader; Trent Lott, the Senate minority leader; J. Dennis Hastert, the House speaker; and Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); DISARMAMENT (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); HIJACKING (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (70%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); TRENT LOTT (78%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); SHANKER, THOM; SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) IRAQ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



515 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Daschle Sharply Attacks Bush's Economic Policies 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
The Senate majority leader offered a blistering assessment of President Bush's fiscal policies today, citing two million lost jobs, weak economic growth and a stock market decline that he called unparalleled since Herbert Hoover.
 The senator, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, made his critique of an economic record he termed "tragic, deplorable, abysmal" in a lengthy speech on the Senate floor a day after he put his support behind Mr. Bush's effort to win Congressional authorization to use force in Iraq. 
 Democrats called the address the beginning of a partywide effort to turn attention away from Iraq and back to the domestic agenda in the final weeks heading into the mid-term elections that will determine control of the House and Senate. 
In a sign that budget fights and deficits are likely to shadow domestic politics for a long time to come, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, separately told reporters today that federal revenues were dropping even more than the administration had expected.
Mr. Daschle pointed today to job losses across the last 18 months, meager economic growth of 1 percent, the stock market decline, and the return to federal deficits even though Mr. Bush entered office with a projected surplus of $5.6 trillion.
"There's a story, a life story behind every one of those numbers," Mr. Daschle said, noting that the number of long-term unemployed had more than doubled to nearly 1.5 million people.
Of the stock market drop he said, "You have to go all the way back to Herbert Hoover to see a performance in the Standard & Poor's 500 equal to what we are experiencing right now." 
He strongly implied that the president had become all-consumed with events overseas. "As busy as we are and as important as the war on Iraq is," Mr. Daschle said, "I hope this administration will dedicate some of its time each week to economic security as well, to these declining numbers, to this atrocious record."
Republicans promptly countered with an orchestrated barrage of criticism, noting that Mr. Daschle had proposed no solutions and that the Senate under his leadership had been unable to produce a budget for the first time in years.
Mr. Daniels said of Mr. Daschle's speech, "It was a disappointing and dispiriting performance; I'm tempted to say a tantrum."
Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip, said the speech was "driven by political greed, not the public good."
"People are hurting," Mr. DeLay said, "but Democrats are extending America's economic misery by refusing to move the president's agenda."
Mr. Daschle's speech, in a way, brought his party full circle in what has been an unpredictable political year. He opened the year with a similar assault on the president's fiscal stewardship, saying Republicans had caused the "most dramatic fiscal deterioration in our nation's history" by enacting Mr. Bush's major tax cut. But with Democrats divided he stopped short of calling for a rollback of the tax cut.
Today's speech telegraphed some of the final dynamics of the fall campaign in which the parties are in a bitter struggle for control of the Senate, with several races virtually tied.
Republicans are hitching themselves to Mr. Bush's high wartime approval ratings and to his record of fighting terror and threats overseas. Democrats, after three weeks of disarray over how to respond to the president on Iraq, are trying to turn attention to a different kind of security, economic security.
Terry McAuliffe, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said today that Congress would vote on an Iraq resolution "very quickly" and the return to the "kitchen table issues" that he asserted would turn the election.
Mr. McAuliffe said the party was advising its candidates to focus on three dates when the economy is going to be an issue: Sept. 30, when voters will start to receive revised 401(k) statements for the third quarter; and Oct. 4 and Nov. 1, when the government releases the unemployment rate.
Mr. Daschle today once again criticized the president's $1.35 trillion 10-year tax cut, but once again he did not call for it to be delayed or altered.
"What is the president's solution?" he asked after setting out the economic trends. "They have one economic, all-purpose antidote to everything, and that is tax cuts, tax cuts largely dedicated to those at the very top. The only thing I have seen the Bush administration fail to suggest a tax cut for, so far, is the drought."
He went on to use a chart showing that while people earning an average $9,300 a year received an average annual tax cut of $66, the top 1 percent of Americans earning more than $1 million would get a $53,1234 annual tax cut.
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, promptly accused Mr. Daschle of wanting to "increase taxes to pay for more spending."
The sparring over fiscal policy is likely to become more heated as revenues continue to decline below projections.
The administration estimated this summer that the budget deficit for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30 would be $165 billion. 
Mr. Daniels said today that the final figure would still be close to that because the revenue shortfall would be largely offset by slightly lower-than-anticipated federal spending. He said the revenue shortfall would be in the "low two figures" of billions, meaning at least $10 billion.
Mr. Daniels said the revenue trend, combined with the costs of fighting inflation and perhaps waging a war in Iraq, increased the pressure on Congress to hold down spending.
With Congress unlikely to pass all the spending bills needed to keep the government running after the end of the fiscal year, Mr. Daniels said the president would agree to stopgap funding measures for the rest of the government only if Congress first passed the spending bill for the military.
He said the administration would reject possible bipartisan efforts on Capitol Hill to attach $6 billion in drought aid for farmers to the stop-gap measures.
Mr. Daniels suggested that the combination of growing fiscal pressure and a lack of time on the Congressional calendar meant it was unlikely that Mr. Bush would press ahead with a new package of tax cuts for investors before the Congressional elections.
Mr. Daniels also said that because government revenues had fallen far short of official projections for the last several years, the administration was going to change the economic model the Treasury Department used to predict tax receipts.
As a practical matter, he said, that means current deficit projections for coming years are likely to grow, creating further tension between the parties over taxes and spending.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Trent Lott, left, and Senator Tom Daschle spoke to reporters yesterday after meeting with President Bush to discuss Iraq. Also yesterday, Mr. Daschle urged more attention to economic policy. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); IRAQ WAR (70%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); TOM DASCHLE (92%); MITCH DANIELS (89%); TRENT LOTT (58%) MITCHELL, ALISON; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DANIELS, MITCHELL E JR (BUDGET DIR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



516 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Middle Class to Lose Much of Bush Tax Cut's Benefit 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Nearly all middle- and upper-middle-class families will lose some of the income tax cuts scheduled over the next eight years as they are forced to pay a separate tax originally intended to make sure that the rich cannot live tax-free, a study released today found.
 By the end of the decade, when the tax cuts pushed into law by the Bush administration in 2001 become fully effective, 85 percent of taxpayers with two or more children will be forced off the regular income tax and onto a separate system known as the alternative minimum tax. 
 The additional burden will fall largely on families with incomes of $75,000 to $500,000. Just three years ago fewer than one million taxpayers, most at the upper reaches of the income spectrum, were subject to the complex separate tax. But if nothing is changed, by 2010 about 36 million taxpayers will face it. Indeed, virtually all taxpayers earning $100,000 to $500,000 will fall under its sway. 
"What was a class tax is becoming a mass tax," said Len Burman of the Urban Institute, one of the study's authors and a tax expert under former Presidents Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton.
Under the alternative minimum tax system, many deductions are denied, including those for children, the taxpayers themselves and for state and local taxes. At that point, taxes are calculated at rates of 26 to 35 percent.
"We're talking about a really nasty marriage penalty," Mr. Burman said. "You are 25 times to 30 times more likely to be on the alternative minimum tax if you are married rather than single."
The study, drawn from computer models of tax behavior similar to those used by Congress and the administration, was made by the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute.
The authors of the study are economists who have served under both Republican and Democratic administrations. While generally espousing moderately liberal positions, they have done research and made calculations that are generally considered nonpartisan and are widely respected.
It has been known since shortly after Mr. Bush's tax cut bill was introduced last year that its rate cuts would force many middle-class people off the regular income tax and onto the alternative tax. But the study provides the most in-depth look to date at the impact on millions of taxpayers of the interaction between the regular system and the alternative tax.
Claire Buchan, a White House spokeswoman, said that "the administration is aware of this issue and will continue to look at it and work with any members of Congress who are interested."
The study, however, shows just how hard it will be to repair the problem, demonstrating that almost any solution will cost the Treasury hundreds of billions of dollars or require raising taxes elsewhere to compensate for the losses. No action is expected anytime soon.
The new study also raises questions about whether the government has, inadvertently, adopted an antifamily tax policy despite years of talk in Congress and on the campaign trail about giving tax relief to middle-class families.
The study found that 97 percent of families with two children and income of $75,000 to $100,000 would be forced off the regular income tax system by 2010.
"This is a cop married to a nurse," said William Gale of the Brookings Institution, one of the study's authors.
The alternative tax will raise only about $13 billion this year, but its impact will soar to $141.4 billion in 2010, the authors calculated. By 2008, they said, it would cost more to repeal the alternative tax than to repeal the regular tax, an indication of the government's growing reliance on the tax.
For those making less than $50,000 -- roughly three-fourths of all taxpayers -- the alternative tax has only negligible effects.
For those making $50,000 to $75,000, the alternative tax in 2010 will, on average, take away 18 cents of each dollar of the scheduled Bush tax cuts. For those making $75,000 to $100,000 it will take back 42 cents and for those making $100,000 to $500,000 it returns 71 cents of every dollar of rate relief to the tax collector.
Taxpayers making more than $1 million, however, will lose just 8 cents on each dollar of the Bush tax cuts because most rich taxpayers would still face higher rates under the normal system than under the alternative tax.
More than half of the Bush tax cuts, when fully effective in 2010, will go to those making more than $1 million, other analyses have shown.
The study yesterday showed that the burden of the minimum tax will shift from the richest Americans to the middle class, which the authors defined as including people making up to $100,000.
Today people making more than $1 million pay 20 cents on each dollar that the alternative tax raises, but in 2010 that will fall to 5 cents. At the same time taxpayers earning $50,000 to $100,000 will see their share of the alternative tax triple to 18 cents of every dollar raised.
This shift in who pays the alternative tax explains, the authors said, why those making $75,000 to $200,000 will pay a larger share of all income taxes in 2010, while those making $1 million or more will pay less.
Those making $100,000 to $200,000, for example, will pay 21.8 percent of the combined revenue from the regular and the alternative income tax this year. That will rise to 27.1 percent in 2010. 
For those making more than $1 million, however, their share of taxes will go down, from 21.6 percent this year to 18.5 percent in 2010.
When the current form of the alternative tax was adopted, as part of the 1986 tax reform act, it raised only about $1 billion from a relatively small number of rich taxpayers who used aggressive techniques to avoid income taxes, Mr. Burman said.
The authors said that the revenue from the alternative tax is rising so fast that to return it to its original intent would cost as much as $951 billion over the next decade. They said simply abolishing the tax would make the system less fair. But limiting it to the old target could be financed, they said, by freezing the 2001 Bush tax cuts, for both income and estates, at their current levels.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Facing the Alternative"A growing number of taxpayers, especially those in the middle and upper-middle income brackets, will fall under the more costly alternative minimum tax in the next few years. Graph shows million(s) taxpayers facing the AMT from 2002-10. (Source: The Tax Policy Center of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution)(pg. C1) Chart: "Minimum Tax's Broadening Reach"Originally intended to ensure that a handful of rich Americans could not completely escape taxes through aggressive tactics, the alternative minimum tax will eventually replace the normal income tax for nearly all taxpayers with incomes of $75,000 to $500,000. ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: UNDER $30,000PERCENTAGE OF TAXPAYERS OWING THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX2002: Less than 0.05%2010: 0.2% ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $30,000 -- $50,000PERCENTAGE OF TAXPAYERS OWING THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX2002: 0.2%2010: 9% ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $50,000 -- $75,000PERCENTAGE OF TAXPAYERS OWING THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX2002: 1%2010: 43% ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $75,000 -- $100,000PERCENTAGE OF TAXPAYERS OWING THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX2002: 3%2010: 79% ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $100,000 -$200,000PERCENTAGE OF TAXPAYERS OWING THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX2002: 11%2010: 94% ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $200,000 -- $500,000PERCENTAGE OF TAXPAYERS OWING THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX2002: 36%2010: 97% ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $500,000 -- $1 MILLIONPERCENTAGE OF TAXPAYERS OWING THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX2002: 19%2010: 54% ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: OVER $1 MILLIONPERCENTAGE OF TAXPAYERS OWING THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX2002: 15%2010: 27% (Source: The Tax Policy Center of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); FAMILY (92%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); LIBERALISM (62%) TAXATION; TAX DEDUCTIONS; MARRIAGES; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (93%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (91%) TAX POLICY CENTER; BROOKINGS INSTITUTION; URBAN INSTITUTE 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%) JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002 



517 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
Drive-Ins, Near Death, Arise From The Weeds

BYLINE:  By GEORGE P. BLUMBERG 

 BODY:
IT was Saturday night, and Ed Gudinas could have been in Brockton, Mass., on a cushy couch, watching a movie on his large-screen home theater with surround sound. Instead, he was sitting in a camp chair on an open field, swatting the occasional mosquito and watching "Men in Black 2," the first half of a double feature on a 50-by-110-foot screen at a drive-in more than 100 miles from home.
 That he is still able to find a drive-in is itself remarkable. By 1990, most of the 4,063 that dotted the nation at the industry's height in 1958 were out of business. Where moviegoers by the hundreds had once screamed at "Creature From the Black Lagoon," only a few cars would be scattered about a weed-choked lot as X-rated gyrations filled the screen. Even love-struck teenage couples, a loyal clientele for decades, had drifted away. 
 Yet something of a renaissance may be under way. A hardy 430 drive-ins are operating across 47 states, according to the United Drive-In Theater Owners Association. In the 1990's, 15 new drive-ins were built, and 39 old ones were reopened.
Mr. Gudinas, 50, and his son, Adam, 24, were seated behind their Dodge van, in which they had made the trip to the Mansfield Drive-In in Connecticut. The van's rear faced the screen, and the open doors revealed a cooler of sodas and sandwiches.
The Gudinases are technology sophisticates whose business is installing electronic security equipment. Their van is a rolling tribute to electronics, including an Audiovox color TV with a VCR, a high-powered stereo and an X-Box DVD system. But here they were, watching a movie the way it was done on the cheap in the 1950's. Why?
Of course, there are the memories. Adam Gudinas recalls his parents' smuggling him in under a blanket at the Mansfield when they lived nearby -- not as an economy measure but more for the traditional drive-in sport of it.
But nostalgia isn't the whole story. The drive-ins that succeed in 2002 have been updated to please 21st-century audiences. Today's typical drive-in shows a double feature, and many have several screens. The audio is broadcast in stereo over the vehicles' FM radios or personal players. The movies are suitable for children.
"We cater to a family-oriented experience and always have one of our screens G-rated, the others PG-13," said Michael Jungden, 54, owner of the Mansfield. It has three screens, each serving about 300 cars. "Business is better than ever," Mr. Jungden said. On the night the Gudinases visited, the drive-in was also showing "Spy Kids 2."
The price is $7 for adults and $4 for children 4 to 11. On Wednesdays, $13 admits everyone in a carload. And there's no baby sitter to pay -- the children can come along and go to sleep on the back seat.
There is a snack bar, but many patrons bring their own refreshments. Some like to tailgate. Near the Gudinases' back-of-the-van setup, a big four-door Chevrolet pickup pulled into a spot, the bed facing the screen. With quick precision, four adults and three children converted the pickup into stadium seating, with small spectator chairs for children on the tailgate and larger chairs for the adults behind them. They pulled sodas from their cooler and grabbed slices of a pizza they had brought along. "It's like a community," said Kristie Leonard, one of the adults in the party.
And it feels safe. "This is not like walking around a mall parking lot at night," she said.
Safety is also a concern for Juli Czajkowski, 38, and her husband, David, 41, of Peoria, Ariz., a Phoenix suburb, who frequent the nine-screen Glendale Nine drive-in near their home. "This may sound silly," Ms. Czajkowski said, "but since Sept. 11, we feel safer at a drive-in than at a mall or a closed cineplex building."
In Berlinsville, Pa., 11 miles north of Allentown, Becky's Drive-In carries on with just a single screen, as it has since 1946, when it was started by the father of the current owners, Cindy Depee, 48, and her brothers and sister. Its clientele is devoted. Michael Carroll, 38, and his wife, Jackie, 31, of Mendham, N.J., make a 140-mile round trip to Becky's each week.
"We're not nostalgia hunters," Mr. Carroll said. "It's just a great way to see a movie." He added that the French fries weren't frozen and "the employees dress in theme costumes, including for "Men in Black" and "George of the Jungle."
Becky Norris, 21, of Belvidere, N.J., and her fiance, Shawn Stewart, 20, go to Becky's once a week. "Under the sky you stretch out, or people can smoke in their cars or talk and not bother anyone," Ms. Norris said. "The sound is great through the car stereo, and little kids can cry and not disturb anyone." They are trying to get their friends to go to the drive-in, too.
"Lots of people," she said, "don't know it's just not a place to go and make out anymore."

GRAPHIC: Photo: REVIVALS -- Drive-ins like the Glendale Nine in Peoria, Ariz., are drawing in new audiences by becoming family entertainment centers. (Pat Shannahan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%) MOTION PICTURES; DRIVE-IN THEATERS 

COMPANY: VOXX INTERNATIONAL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES DRIVE-IN THEATER OWNERS ASSN 

TICKER: VOXX (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (53%)

PERSON: BLUMBERG, GEORGE P 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



518 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 4681 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

"AMERICAN ANTHEM: MASTERWORKS FROM THE AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM," 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040 (through Jan. 5). The last of three shows celebrating the American Folk Art Museum's new building, "Anthem" displays more than 250 objects acquired since the museum opened 40 years ago. And in the museum's cleverly designed new digs, the show really comes on strong. It displays some of folk art's most esteemed icons, among them the "Flag Gate," a weathered farm gate of painted wood in the shape of an American flag; a pair of spiffy lady-and-gentleman portraits by Ammi Phillips; a spirited carousel horse from Coney Island carved by Charles Carmel; and a life-size baseball player at bat, carved by Samuel Anderson Robb. For the first time, the show includes the work of 20th-century self-taught artists in context with earlier folk art in the collection. Also for the first time, the museum demonstrates its recently expanded collecting interests beyond the United States, showing the work of 20th-century self-taught Europeans like Adolf Wolfli, Madge Gill and Carlo Zinelli. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+ (Grace Glueck)

* "CULTIVATED LANDSCAPES: REFLECTIONS OF NATURE IN CHINESE PAINTING WITH SELECTIONS FROM THE COLLECTION OF MARIE-HELENE AND GUY WEILL," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Feb. 9). This show is basically a rotation of the permanent collection, of the kind required to protect light-sensitive silk scrolls and ink-painted album pages. But the Met has a flair for turning necessity into a virtue by reintroducing work along thematic lines and introducing fresh material to lend a sense of event. Such is the case here. At the center of the reinstallation is a group of splendid Ming and Qing dynasty paintings recently given or promised to the museum by the New York collectors Marie-Helene and Guy Weill. They are a genuine attraction in themselves, and a logical link in the continuum that this museum's remarkable Chinese holdings span from beginning to end. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $7 for students and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

* EXPOSED: THE VICTORIAN NUDE, Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Jan. 5). For the latest overview of British naughtiness, you may once again go to (where else?) Brooklyn, for this show of not very prudish Victorian art. "Exposed" has even more naked women without their pubic hair than the last Vanessa Beecroft show at the Gagosian Gallery. The naked young maidens here, shackled to a rock or draped over the oars of a ship (the boatmen bravely stare straight ahead) or riding horses or just standing there with an anaconda wrapped around their bodies are Andromeda, the Sirens, Godiva and Harmonia. The artists include Sargent, Frederic Leighton and Herbert Schmalz, whose "Faithful Unto Death" presents half a dozen or so naked damsels, loosely bound to herms, awaiting lions in the Circus Maximus. Lawrence Alma-Tadema imagines apple-flushed Victorian women soaking in a Roman plunge bath. Fortunately, the show does not stint on genuine porn. Perfume and underwear advertisers today clearly have nothing on the feisty Victorians. The show ends with works by Walter Sickert and Gwen John, artists at the turn of the last century who dispensed with the kinky fantasies of antigravitational breasts and painted what they really saw. From Alma-Tadema to Ms. Beecroft and cold cream commercials. From John and Sickert to Lucian Freud, who could never be confused with Herbert Schmalz. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; $3 for students and 62+ (Michael Kimmelman)

* "GAUGUIN IN NEW YORK COLLECTIONS: THE LURE OF THE EXOTIC," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Oct. 20). The first major New York exhibition in four decades devoted to Gauguin isn't major-major by Met blockbuster standards: more than half of the 120 pieces are drawings and prints. But these are pretty spectacular, and they are joined by some two dozen paintings, including coral-and-mango-colored visions of a mythical South Pacific that are among the most beautiful images created by any modern artist. Only the Met has the resources to put this kind of material together, though if you want to get a real sense of the not-so-nice artist himself, check out the new critical biography by Nancy Mowll Mathews, "Paul Gauguin: An Erotic Life." Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

"GREAT MASTERS OF MEXICAN FOLK ART FROM THE COLLECTION OF FOMENTO CULTURAL BANAMEX," National Museum of the American Indian, at the United States Custom House (Smithsonian Institution), 1 Bowling Green, (212) 514-2843 (through March 15). This big, lavish crowd-pleaser of an exhibition offers a colorful and entertaining selection of more than 500 works by 181 contemporary Mexican artisans, and it includes sculpture, furniture, ceramics, weavings, toys, religious objects, glassware, bead work, leather work and much more. Fine craft predominates, but there are works of compelling imagination, too, like the wonderfully animated wooden fantasy animals of Manuel Jimenez Ramirez; the magical, intensely patterned ceramic assemblages of Alfonso Castillo Orta; and the crowded, miniature bullfight scene, carved out of a log, by Hipolito Vazquez Sanchez. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays until 8 p.m. Free (Ken Johnson).

"MOVING PICTURES," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 88th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Jan. 12). This survey of photography with a small selection of video, film and installation art appended may be the largest exhibition of its kind in a major New York museum. Drawn almost entirely from the Guggenheim's permanent collection, it has a snappy yet unobtrusive design by Hani Rashid and ably surveys the expansion of contemporary art by camera-dependent media from the late 1960's to now. It begins with works by Nam June Paik, Bruce Nauman and Robert Smithson, then moves up the museum's ramp through photographs by Nan Goldin, Cindy Sherman and Andreas Gursky, concluding with video and film by artists like Stan Douglas, Shirin Neshat and Pierre Huyghe. An added attraction are the foam-lined, cavelike video galleries perched at the top of the spiral, which give the show a giddy, Hall of the Mountain King finale that seems to say "onward and upward with video." Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $9 for students and 65+ (Roberta Smith)

* MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, QUEENS, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400. People in Queens are now finally free to complain the way obnoxious Manhattanites have always done about the bridge and tunnel crowd bringing their Prada sandals for a walk on weekends and spoiling the neighborhood. The Modern's new temporary home (until 2005) has finally opened in the former Swingline staple factory with part of its permanent collection of paintings and sculpture on view. The galleries approximate the classic industrial loft aesthetic, efficient and airless, like the inside of a storage center, which is exactly what this building is, but touching for Cezannes, Seurats and Braques, which suddenly look fresh and seem to pop off the movable bare white walls. The temporary shows include a display of Rudy Burckhardt's little-known photographs of Queens in the late 1930's and early 40's (through Nov. 4), a perfect tribute to the museum's new locale. The trip to the museum couldn't be easier on the No. 7 subway. Now you can tell everyone you're chic: you've been to Queens. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m; to 7:45 p.m. on Fridays. Admission: $12; $8.50 for students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* "HELIO OITICICA: QUASI-CINEMAS," New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, between Prince and Houston Streets, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Oct. 13). "To organize delirium" is the phrase Haroldo de Campos, the Brazilian poet, came up with to describe the work of Oiticica. I couldn't put it better. A Brazilian proto-installationist of the 1960's, Oiticica wanted nothing more than to have people kick off their shoes and immerse themselves in the karmic pleasures he devised. This show focuses on his somewhat tangential work of the 70's, when he lived in New York: it consists of rooms slung with hammocks or padded with mattresses or covered with sand and balloons; slides of Jimi Hendrix, Marilyn Monroe and Luis Bunuel flash on the walls to music by Yma Sumac, the Latin diva. This description makes the work sound juvenile or pointless, which it is not. A buoyancy derives partly from the sly humor, self-mocking and pervasive. Art was for Oiticica a state of mind and a condition of the heart -- a university for the soul with an open-admission policy. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3 for students, artists and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* "THE PAINTINGS OF JOAN MITCHELL," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Sept. 29). The impact of Mitchell's works, especially the later ones (she died of lung cancer 10 years ago, at 66), is so immediately intoxicating that a natural reaction is to distrust the art. Abstract paintings this suave and sure-footed must be glib and manipulative, you may be excused for telling yourself. Distrust your distrust. Lush, opulent fields of colors, seemingly all paradisiacal, contain shades of melancholy that reveal themselves to you after your eyes adjust to their light. Mitchell absorbed the influences of Pollock, Gorky, Kline and de Kooning. There are ferocious paintings of clotted splatters in the 1950's. Then hovering shapes appear in muted green, gray and blue in the 60's. They give way by the early 70's to more vividly colored multipanel paintings in which increasing varieties of shapes and lines jostle. Mitchell, who had moved to France, denied the influence of Monet, which was undeniable. Her last works, from the 80's and early 90's, push Monet into the late-20th century ecstatically. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $9.50 for students and 62+ (Kimmelman).

"QUEENS INTERNATIONAL," Queens Museum of Art, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700 (through Nov. 3). This selection of work by 40 artists, from 12 countries but all now living in Queens, includes paintings, videos, performance art, installations and other contemporary forms. The art reflects the globalization of postmodernist pluralism as much as -- if not more than -- cultural diversity. Highlights include intricately patterned, mandala-form collages by Marietta J. Ganapin; John L. Moore's dreamy, supplely painted abstractions; Larry Litt's politically provocative video "The Blame Show"; and James Johnson's full-scale copper-clad fantasy airplane, more offbeat labor of love than professional sculpture. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $2 for students and 55+ (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

PAUL AMENTA, "Quivering Twilight," Marvelli Galley, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 627-3363 (through Oct. 5). Working on panels of wallboard that come with blue paper surfaces, Mr. Amenta cuts into the paper and peels it away to create graceful brown silhouettes of leafless trees. He also pierces the surface and fills the holes with white joint compound; sanded down, these become glowing stars in the blue sky. Call it Home Depot Sublime (Johnson).

ROWENA DRING, Elizabeth Dee Gallery, 545 West 20th Street, (212) 924-7545 (through Oct. 5). This young, Amsterdam-based Englishwoman makes Pop-style, photo-based landscapes by a surprising technique. Using a sewing machine and black thread, Ms. Dring produces her pictures by stitching countless pieces of colored fabric to stretched canvases. The effect is more impressive the bigger the size, as in a picture of a forest waterfall that measures 7 by 10 feet. In its expansive, percussive luminosity, it is like a Tiffany stained-glass window (Johnson).

* OWEN GRAY, "Paintings From the Southwest and Tropics," Blue Mountain Gallery, 530 West 25th Street, (646) 486-4730 (through Sept. 28). With a relaxed but exacting painterly touch and in a Cezannesque palette of muted colors, this mid-career New Yorker paints visionary bird's-eye views of tropical swamps teeming with plant and animal life and inhabited in some cases by corpulent, naked white people. Mr. Gray is painting a kind of primordial peaceable kingdom, a Freudian never-never land where the ego lives in close touch with churning instinctual energies (Johnson).

TODD HIDO, "Roaming," Paul Morris, 465 West 23rd Street, (212) 727-2752 (through Oct. 5). Mr. Hido's captivating pictures combine old-fashioned photographic beauty and an up-to-date feeling for cinematic narrative. In those shot at night on the seedy edges of town, dark shadows and the misty glow of streetlights over pedestrian walkways generate tantalizing states of suspense. Bleak daytime landscapes made in late autumn or winter are like moments in a movie version of a Russell Banks novel (Johnson).

JENNY HOLZER, "Protect Me From What I Want," Printed Matter, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 925-0325 (through Sept. 30). Ms. Holzer's blunt, insistent sound bites have been buzzing through the collective culture since the early 1980's, conveyed on baseball hats, T-shirts, Styrofoam cups and bumper stickers, as well as with nylon stockings and china. This survey thoroughly samples these ephemeral efforts and celebrates her distinctive way with words, filling the premises with Holzer-babble. Its subversive consciousness-raising and sense of apocalyptic foreboding seems freshly pertinent (Smith).

* MICHAEL HURSON, Paula Cooper Gallery, 521 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1055 (through Oct. 12). At the heart of this show are seven drawings done from a reproduction of Seurat's painting "Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte." They reiterate the painting's gliding figures and majestic recession of space, while replacing its seamless surface with the quirky, slightly anxious, multitextured intimacy that Mr. Hurson has developed over the years, and puts to excellent use here (Smith).

JOSEPH MAIDA, "Interior Portraits," Wallspace, 453 West 17th Street, (212) 675-5804 (through Sept. 28). Hanging around the homes of his friends, Mr. Maida captures images of people in relaxed, unposed and unguarded moments. His rich, medium-large color photographs may call to mind Nan Goldin's diaristic imagery, but they lack the alienating, self-conscious bohemianism (Johnson).

YOSHIYUKI MIURA, Von Lintel Gallery, 555 West 25th Street, (212) 242-0599 (through Oct. 12). Using industrial materials, Mr. Miura makes sculptures that are as visually gripping as they are physically seductive. The centerpiece here is a circular work consisting of hundreds of vertical steel rods, each with a golden bronze tip, which grow taller as they progress concentrically from the center. The geometric order gives way to shifting, optically pulsating patterns of radiating, glinting gold dots and vibrating black verticals (Johnson).

ANTONIO PETRACCA, "Forecast: Sunny and Clear, High in the Low 80's," Kim Foster, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 229-0044 (through Oct. 12). Rendering cropped, snapshot images of the twin towers, construction cranes and ground zero workers with a fine eye for light and a soft yet exacting touch, this Battery Park City painter has produced a low-key meditation on 9/11 (Johnson).

ELLIOTT PUCKETTE, Paul Kasmin, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, (212) 563-4474 (through Oct. 12). Ms. Puckette continues to work with her trademark device of crisp, tapering white lines that suggest improvisations by an 18th-century engraver. The whiplash calligraphy is actually cut with a razor into blotchy, watery fields of gray or a single color painted on wooden panels, but it gives the impression of floating in front of atmospheric space as though it were painted on glass. The play between surface and depth is appealing, in part because it seems so ripe for further complication and development (Johnson).

SCOTT RICHTER, Elizabeth Harris Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 463-9666 (through Oct. 5). Contemplating his mountainous heaps of oily paint on sturdy used tables, you might wonder how much Mr. Richter spends on paint in a year. Whatever the sum, he puts his resources to good use with some new twists: in several cases, he has piled the paint into curving wedges with the raw texture of mud-pie construction on one side and, on the other, smooth, convex planes in which color blends to give an impression of expansive and luminous skies (Johnson).

TOSHIKO TAKAEZU, Charles Cowles, 537 West 24th Street, (212) 925-3500 (through Oct. 5). This eminent ceramist is justly celebrated for her enormous pod-shaped vessels that seamlessly combine rugged physicality, expressionistic glazing and classical serenity. The biggest stand about human height and have bulbous profiles and nipple-like protrusions at the top, all of which makes for a certain primal, maternal presence (Johnson).

IVAN WITENSTEIN AND DAN FISCHER, Derek Eller Gallery, 526-530 West 25th Street, (212) 206-6411 (through Oct. 5). Each of the seven fiberglass and cast resin sculptures in Mr. Witenstein's impressive New York solo debut, titled "Here Comes the Son, Here Comes the Knight," is like a psychedelic version of American-style Social Realism, with references to war, racism, popular culture, 19th-century literature and 20th-century history molded together with a visionary zeal. Mr. Fischer revisits photo-realism in a series of detail-perfect graphite drawings based on magazine illustrations of art world stars past and present. These icons look every bit as weird as the figures in Mr. Witenstein's sculptures, and are no less virtuosically made (Cotter).

Galleries: Brooklyn

"CONSUMING PLACES," 16 Main Street, at Water Street, Brooklyn waterfront near the Manhattan Bridge, (212) 206-6674 (through Oct. 27). Space in its various contemporary manifestations -- architectural, virtual, commercial and otherwise -- is where the action is for lots of avant-garde-minded folks. This exhibition, sponsored by Creative Time, presents two individual artists (Bill Fontana and Marjetica Potrc) and three teams (Asymptote, Greyworld and 212box). Their technologically complicated works reflect the layering of material and immaterial dimensions that shape modern experience. It is conceptually interesting but less fun than a Spielberg movie (Johnson).

* MATT MARELLO, "The Pollock Project," Pierogi, 177 North Ninth Street, Williamsburg, (718) 599-2144 (through Oct. 7). This wry yet mythically resonant meditation on the cult of the Dionysian artist features video projections in which the artist has digitally inserted himself into clips of Jackson Pollock painting, the Led Zepplin percussionist John Bonham drumming and the action-movie star Bruce Lee performing with nunchakus. A fourth shows the view from a car driving at night. Actual drumsticks, nunchakus and a paintbrush, all carved from wood found near the site of Pollock's fatal car crash, are displayed in a vitrine like sacred relics (Johnson).

"POP PATRIOTISM," Momenta Art, 72 Berry Street, Williamsburg, (718) 218-8058 (through Oct. 6). This group show satirizes commercial exploitation of post 9/11 patriotism. Thomas Sherrod's lovingly painted teddy bear paints stars and stripes on a dollar sign in the sky; David Opdyke's "Suburbanistan" remaps Afghanistan as a suburban tract; Christy Rupp offers "Taliban Barbie," the real doll in a burka; Heidi Schlatter's video compiles a montage of narcissistic pop stars singing patriotic anthems; and the show's curator, Peter Scott, displays his collection of red-white-and-blue kitsch, including key chains, magazine covers and flip-flop sandals (Johnson).

"YOU'RE JUST A SUMMER LOVE, BUT I'LL REMEMBER YOU WHEN WINTER COMES," Priska C. Juschka Fine Art, 97 North Ninth Street, Williamsburg, (718) 782-4100 (through Oct. 6). The young artists in this larky group exhibition share a downtown sensibility (rooted in this case in Manhattan's Lower East Side); various kinds of friendships; and an anarchic, school's-out-forever aesthetic, which might be described as a post-punk-hippie-grunge hybrid. A retro-60's strain is played out in stained-glass sculptures and painted rainbows. A video by Kid America has the streetwise visual snap of graffiti and the frantic pacing of a television commercial. The art world may be fixated on Well-Made Objects these days, but a high, here-today communal energy is the story here (Cotter).

Other Galleries

JOHN BISBEE, Plane Space, 102 Charles Street, Greenwich Village, (917) 606-1268 (through Oct. 4). Each of this Maine-based sculptor's three projects is made of king-size nails welded together and calculated to weigh precisely one ton. One has the 12-inch spikes fused into a semisolid mass; another is a set of nine scary-looking spheres made of radiating spikes; the third is a structure like a low garden fence that meanders some 240 feet across the gallery's concrete floor (Johnson).

KARL MANN, "Retrospective: 50 Years," Viewing Room, 114 West 17th Street, (646) 638-1920 (through Sept. 29). Doll fragments, wallpaper, plastic animals, superhero toys, electric and mechanical parts, antique photographs, magazine ads, heads of Jesus, Madonna and Elvis: all this and much more goes into the mix of Mr. Mann's collage and assemblage work and is arranged with an unerring design sense. An internal editor might help to give his work a more personal focus, but one nevertheless admires his boundless creative energy (Johnson).

* "PERFECT ACTS OF ARCHITECTURE," AXA Gallery, 787 Seventh Avenue, near 51st Street, (212) 554-1704 (through Oct. 19). During the 70's and 80's, when the building industry was depressed, some intellectually ambitious architects like the five luminaries represented in this exhibition of drawings often realized their most radical ideas only on paper. For Daniel Libeskind and Thom Mayne, that meant different kinds of play with traditional conventions of architectural drafting. Peter Eisenman made geometric diagrams based on the linguistic theories of Noam Chomsky. Bernard Tschumi drew and collaged a noirish narrative. And, best of all, Rem Koolhaas produced an Orwellian fable about utopian social engineering (Johnson).

PAUL HENRY RAMIREZ, "Space Addiction," Whitney Museum of American Art at Philip Morris, 120 Park Avenue, at 42nd Street, (917) 663-2453 (through Oct. 11). In flat, hard-edged graphics, Mr. Ramirez's zany montage of spurting breasts, delicately hair-fringed orifices, dangling genitalia, targets, polka dots and stripes harmoniously proliferates all over the gallery's walls. It suggests that what underlies holistic fantasies of Modernist design is infantile yearning for the ideal mother. Out in the courtyard, "Outer City, Inner Space" (through Jan. 3) includes an undulating, tubular ceiling by Teresita Fernandez; an internally illuminated, futuristic igloo by Stephen Hendee; and a giant Chinese food takeout bag by Ester Parteg -- all resonating to good effect with Mr. Ramirez's Neo-Pop lunacy (Johnson).

Last Chance

"THE ARTIST'S EYE: JANE FREILICHER AS CURATOR," National Academy of Design Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880 (through Sunday). The academy's sixth artist-selected show has been chosen by Jane Freilicher, whose reserved yet opulently colored landscapes and still lifes might be said to mediate the shrinking gap between the academic and the progressive. To some extent this show explores that gap: its 50 paintings are weighted toward portraits and landscapes and juxtaposed with unusual subtleness and intelligence. They form an engrossing meditation on subject matter, the painter's craft and the history of the academy. Hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $4.50 for students and 65+ (Smith).

* "CHANGING HANDS: ART WITHOUT RESERVATION," American Craft Museum, 40 West 53rd Street, (212) 956-3535 (through today). In this feast of a show, about 90 American Indian artists from the Southwest -- established and emerging -- exhibit weaving, pottery, jewelry, glass, sculpture, paintings and tableware. Chosen for their venturesome challenges to the traditional and the tribal, the artists help redefine contemporary Indian work as art rather than artifacts. An outstanding contribution is made by the jewelers, especially L. Eugene Nelson of Albuquerque, whose intricate, finely engineered brooch uses traditional Indian silver and stones but is modeled on a computer chip. In pottery, another stellar category, two big earthenware vessels by Jacquie Stevens evoke the baskets of her Winnebago ancestry, yet have an elegant modern look influenced by contemporary art. This is the first of three shows that will explore the current state of the arts in pre-European American societies; the series is off to a promising start. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m. Admission, $8; $5, students and 65+ (Glueck).

* "IRONIC/ICONIC: KIRA LYNN HARRIS, AIDA MILLETT AND KEHINDE WILEY," Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500 (through Sunday). The Studio Museum's artist-in-residence program has advanced many young careers in its 35-year history. This year's three participants look more than promising. Ms. Harris shows shots of New York City dissolved into patterns of light; in Ms. Millett's installation, upwardly mobile dreams and on-the-skids reality meet; Mr. Wiley's paintings of African-American men combine portraiture and stereotypes, leaving the line between the two ambiguous. On the first floor of the museum is a wall drawing in progress by Edgar Arceneaux titled "Drawings of Removal," based on his father's fragmentary, contradictory memories of a Texas childhood. Mr. Arceneaux will be executing and obliterating the drawing periodically throughout the exhibition. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $3 for students and 62+; $1, children under 12 (Cotter).

* "FRIDA KAHLO, DIEGO RIVERA AND 20TH-CENTURY MEXICAN ART: THE JACQUES AND NATASHA GELMAN COLLECTION," El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 831-7272 (through Thursday). El Museo began in an East Harlem storefront; now it's a capstone of Museum Mile with a show that many a larger, richer museum would welcome. Kahlo is a big part of the attraction. Seven of her self-portraits are here, reason enough for a pilgrimage. Sure, she's been oversold, but she's great. Her husband, Diego Rivera, looks good, too, with his visionary "Calla Lily Vendor" and a slinky portrait of Natasha Gelman that is pure Tinseltown luxe. There are, in fact, too many Gelman portraits on hand, along with some other second-tier work, but with so much else of interest the show is a must-see even for museumgoers who usually stick to the mainstream. Those for whom Kahlo is the She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed of modernist painting are no doubt lining up at the door. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $3 for students and 65+ (Cotter).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A large detail of a Wang Yuanqi work in "Cultivated Landscapes." (Metropolitan Museum of Art); "Study for the Musicians (Work in Progress)" by Michael Hurson, in an exhibition of the artist's works on paper at Paula Cooper in Chelsea. (Paula Cooper Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); BASEBALL (71%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



519 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: MY BROOKLYN; 
A Tower of Dentists Wears a Golden Crown

BYLINE:  By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
It is the undisputed king of the Brooklyn skyline, the most populous borough's only widely recognized piece of architecture that is not a roller coaster. Its gigantic clock tower looms up in half the apartment windows in town, a communal wristwatch that sometimes seems to be watching you.
 It is the Williamsburgh Savings Bank building, Brooklyn's tallest, the 512-foot, 34-story colossus that casts its shadow over the congested crossroads of Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues, towering a good 400 feet over almost everything in the vicinity and visible from the Jersey Shore. The American Institute of Architects guidebook says, "Inadvertently, this was New York's most phallic symbol . . . dominating the landscape of all Brooklyn." Crustier observers have likened it to a giant hand offering a salty Brooklyn salute. 
 But for a landmark, the buff-brick and limestone tower at 1 Hanson Place, now owned by HSBC Bank, is a bit of an everyday mystery. Most Brooklynites have probably never set foot in it. Those who have and know what riches it holds -- a stunningly lavish banking hall topped by bank offices and 20 floors of mostly dentists' suites -- may wonder how it got that way. 
Architecture buffs might well ask, "Why a golden Renaissance-style dome atop a modernist skyscraper?" Literalists may wonder why the building is not in Williamsburg (as the bank's original home is now spelled) but at the southern end of Fort Greene, half a block from the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
And many neighbors, especially those whose homes look out on the east face of what was for decades the largest four-faced clock in the world, would like to know why such a celebrated timepiece so often provides the wrong time. (Prevailing winds turn out to be the culprits.)
For the 16,000-odd customers of the branch, the basilicalike banking hall remains a pretty awe-inspiring place to fill out a deposit slip. From a 63-foot-high vaulted gold-leaf ceiling mosaic of zodiac figures and other celestial ephemera to the intricate wrought-iron biblical-looking men and women that serve as the legs of an inch-thick green glass counter illuminated by lamps hanging from stylized metal camel faces, the place dazzles. "One is fortified at the banking screen by animals representing strength, courage and fidelity," wrote Richard Brotherton, an architectural historian, in the Landmarks Preservation Commission's report on the interior. 
Downstairs in the gymnasium-size bank vault, the door alone -- some five feet wide and deep and eight feet high -- is bigger than many Manhattan kitchens. It weighs 60 tons. From the upper-floor dental chairs, the views of all of New York City and the waters and lands beyond provide a welcome if incomplete distraction.
As grand as it seems now, though, the building was envisioned as something grander. It was to be the anchor of a new downtown, strategically located near the convergence of Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues, nearly a dozen subway lines and a busy commuter station of the Long Island Rail Road. The wishful mosaic that dominates one wall of the banking hall shows the tower as a shining beacon, relaying the sun's rays to a golden city.
A week after the building opened, in April 1929, the floors above the bank were 75 percent rented. "This certainly speaks well for Brooklyn and indicates that more skyscrapers will be erected in the near future," the president of the Brooklyn Real Estate Board, Lewis H. Pounds, told the press.
Then came the Depression, followed by decades of more local ups and downs. It was half a century before the next cluster of tall buildings went up in Brooklyn, and they were built half a mile west, closer to the old downtown. 
But the bank tower somehow remained above it all, an island dedicated to silver and gold in the sea of brick and concrete. Dentists may not be the most glamorous tenants, but their business is recession-proof, and the rents they pay today -- more than $45 a square foot -- are some of the highest in the area, said William O'Brien of M. C. O'Brien, a commercial real estate broker. 
Besides, "when you have a building filled with a large amount of tenants who don't take up much space and pay the rent on time, why change?" said John Maltz, a managing director at Greiner-Maltz, a real estate company in Long Island City, Queens. "That's golden."
In the early 1920's the original Williamsburgh Savings Bank, a domed temple at Broadway and Driggs Avenue in Williamsburg that is also now an HSBC branch, was the fourth biggest savings bank in the country. It was ready to expand, but banks in New York State were limited to one office. Then in 1923 a state law allowed branch banks, and the trustees began looking for a second site for a new flagship.
They picked a spot and hired the architects Halsey McCormack & Helmer, who went on to design several other landmark banks. Architect and client quarreled over the design: the bank wanted to crown its new headquarters with its signature dome, even though it clashed with the soaring modern look of the rest of the building. Client won. "Dome was required by Bank over our dead protests," reads an architect's note.
Regarding the interior, there was no such squabbling. The chief architect, Robert Helmer, wrote that he wanted the building "to be regarded as a cathedral dedicated to the furtherance of thrift and prosperity." He hit his mark. The banking room, a triumph of Romanesque Revival design with the naves and aisles of a church, is a tasteful riot of wrought metal, stone and tile. 
Twenty-two varieties of marble grace the floor and support posts. Sculptures by Rene P. Chambellan, who did the decorations at Radio City Music Hall, abound. 
On the mezzanine overlooking the banking hall was a ladies' lounge, now converted to offices. The bank president rode up to his office in a private elevator. The 26th-floor observation deck, now closed to the public for liability reasons, offered magnificent views.
Upstairs, the building quickly became a magnet for dentists -- in particular specialists at the top of the profession: oral surgeons, periodontists, orthodontists. The reasons are not quite clear. Mr. Maltz said it could be as simple as one dentist following another. Dr. Robert Seminara, who has fitted braces in the building since 1963, said it made sense that specialists, who might not be able to find enough business in a neighborhood practice, would be particularly drawn to an impressive building at a transportation hub. 
"They realized that if they were going to do more advanced or progressive dentistry, they had to be in a central location," he said. "And patient expectation of what quality treatment they receive is based on what the eye can see."
After World War II the area around the bank flourished. Through the 1940's the Atlantic Avenue terminal was the busiest station on the Long Island Rail Road, and the blocks around were lined with places to eat and shop. Dentists and other people of means took their meals at the Gondola, a fancy Italian restaurant on Flatbush Avenue. By the 1950's there was a big barber shop and a restaurant on the mezzanine level of the bank building.
Then came years of urban decay, middle-class flight and the usual roster of ills. The fancy residential hotel around the corner became a homeless shelter. In the early 1960's the city tore down buildings across the street from the bank to make way for the Atlantic Terminal urban renewal project, which, thanks to an endless series of commercial and political squabbles, remains an enormous pit.
The Williamsburgh Savings Bank itself was to some extent implicated in the area's woes. Though 1 Hanson Place's cornerstone dedicates the building to the bank's depositors, who through their hard work and thrift "swept aside the petty distinctions of class and birth and so maintained the true spirit of American democracy," the bank's loan department was accused of redlining. 
Critics charged that Brooklyn residents had deposited $932 million at the bank but had been granted only $32 million in mortgages and home-improvement loans. (In suburban Suffolk County, by contrast, the bank lent out far more than it took in.) The bank had to reform its loan policies for the building to receive landmark status in 1978.
In the 1980's the Williamsburgh Savings Bank ran into more trouble, hobbled by high interest rates and inflation. In 1986 it was acquired by Republic National Bank. Republic in turn went the way of so much banking flesh, being devoured in 1999 by HSBC Bank USA, the American division of the London-based bank, one of the world's largest.
Meanwhile, the neighborhoods surrounding the bank -- Fort Greene, Park Slope, Boerum Hill and Prospect Heights -- have rebounded. Brownstones were restored to their former glory; swank restaurants filled the avenues. Under the aegis of the Brooklyn Academy of Music an arts district is taking shape. A shopping mall, Atlantic Center, opened near the bank.
Inside 1 Hanson Place, though, not much appears to have changed. HSBC has taken over the 7th through 11th floors for back-office operations. Upstairs, the space is 96 percent rented, said Stephen Elbaz, a leasing agent for the bank. The roster of dentists has been reduced from its heyday; the offices are now filled out with a smattering of other doctors, as well as other professionals and nonprofit agencies like the Brooklyn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. 
The building's age and design make it unappealing for a large corporate tenant, Mr. O'Brien said. Big tenants, he said, want more space between columns, higher ceilings, 21st-century infrastructure. Especially at the upper levels, which are set back progressively farther from the street, there is simply not enough floor space.
The dentists don't mind. "To practice in this building is amazing," said Irwin Kolin, an orthodontist on the 21st floor who has been in the building for 43 years. "I wouldn't go anywhere else. You can consult with your colleagues. If we run short of X-rays, we help each other out."
The clocks, after all these years, still have a vexing tendency to run slow sometimes, and not even uniformly. One face can read perfect time while another lingers in the past. 
Up in the control room of the clock tower recently, with Brooklyn laid out in dizzying 360-degree splendor just outside the door, the building engineer, William Harris, explained how this happens. 
The four clocks run on separate motors, so there is nothing to keep them synchronized. "And sometimes," he said, "when you get a heavy wind, it can spin the hands." The hour hands, nine feet long, weigh almost 300 pounds. The minute hands are nearly twice that size. The wind is stronger. The strongest winds, Mr. Harris said, blow on the east and south sides, so those clocks have the most trouble.
As he spoke these words, at 4:16 p.m., the east clock, facing Fort Greene, read 3:58. Mr. Harris grabbed a large crank and wound the hands forward 18 minutes, undoubtedly puzzling anyone who happened to be looking up.
"That should do it," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 26th-floor terrace of the Williamsburgh Savings Bank building. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times((pg. E29); Architectural splendor at the Williamsburgh Savings Bank: A view of one of the clock faces from beneath an arch on the 26th-floor terrace, above, and the main banking hall in the building in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney/The New York Times)(pg. E37) Map of Brooklyn highlighting Williamsburgh Savings Bank. (pg. E37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENTISTRY (87%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); HISTORY (73%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); MAMMALS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



520 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART 

BYLINE:  By Carol Vogel

 BODY:
Selling European, Buying American
 Since 1986 the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts has been quietly selling off its collection of European paintings to create a fund for the acquisition of American art. The decision to sell paintings by masters like Courbet and Boldini is a way of refocusing its mission in the 21st century, its officials say. 
 When the academy was founded in 1805, the Philadelphia Museum of Art didn't exist, so it was natural that the academy would collect European works. But over the past 125 years the holdings of the Philadelphia Museum of Arts have made it an important encyclopedic institution, and so the academy no longer needs to retain European art. 
"We have to be a living, collecting institution for American art in order to stay alive," said Derek A. Gillman, the president and chief executive of the academy. 
Over the years it has sold art at Sotheby's and Christie's, as it will this fall. Sotheby's will auction 28 19th-century works in two parts, 20 of them on Oct. 28, and 8, including 2 by Courbet, in the spring.
Christie's is to auction 20 works, most of them in its sale of 19th-century paintings on Oct. 30. The cover work for Christie's catalog is Alexandre Cabanel's "Birth of Venus" (circa 1865-69), one of three versions. Napoleon III bought the first in 1863, when it was shown at the Paris Salon; it is now in the Musee d'Orsay in Paris. Another is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The one for sale is thought to have belonged to Henry C. Gibson, a Philadelphia banker. While researching the painting, experts at Christie's discovered 1871 advertisements for the sale where Gibson bought the painting, thus confirming that it is older than the Met's 1875 version. Christie's estimates that it will fetch $400,000 to $600,000.
Why has the academy waited so long to sell the painting? "People felt very attached to it," Mr. Gillman said. "Curators recognized its importance. But there comes a point where we finally had to say, 'The Cabanel, too.' "

Budget Casualties
As concerns over money continue to plague museums across the country, some exhibitions that would have been expensive to organize are being canceled, at least until the economy turns around. The latest to drop off the exhibition schedule is a retrospective of the notorious British duo Gilbert and George at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. The show, which was to have opened in March, would have included about 80 works. When officials began having trouble organizing other American venues for the show, it was first postponed and then canceled.
"People are being careful about budgets," said Arnold L. Lehman, director of the Brooklyn Museum. "The show was to occupy about 10,000 square feet, and for some museums that's a lot of space, especially for a contemporary art exhibition." What made it so expensive was the cost of shipping the works, which were to have come from collections worldwide. "I didn't let this go easily," Mr. Lehman said. "There's always tomorrow."

The Spanish Influence
In a perfect world, museum sponsorship is decided a year before an exhibition's opening. But in these tough times museums happily take sponsorship whenever they can get it, which may explain why the Metropolitan Museum of Art is only now announcing that Accenture is the sponsor of "Manet/Velazquez: The French Taste for Spanish Painting," a show of about 150 paintings by masters of Spain's Golden Age and the French artists they influenced, among them Delacroix, Courbet, Millet, Degas and especially Manet. Last year Accenture, a Bermuda-based consulting concern, split off from Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm that was convicted in June of obstructing the government's investigation into the collapse of Enron, an Andersen client.
A version of the show opened on Tuesday at the Musee d'Orsay, where it will run through Jan. 6. "We are doing this with the Louvre," said Philippe de Montebello, director of the Met. "Our version is bigger. It will also extend to American artists who were touched by Spanish painting."
As the sponsor, Accenture will collaborate with the Met to design a special feature on the museum's Web site (www.metmuseum.org), which will post biographical and historical information about the artists featured as well. Visitors will also be able to follow the paths of the artists as they traveled through Spain studying the Spanish masters.

Job Switching
Laurie Beckelman's expertise navigating the bureaucratic mine-fields of building in Manhattan have made her a hot commodity. Two years ago Ms. Beckelman, a former chairwoman of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, was hired by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum as its deputy director for special projects, a job that meant being involved with the creation of the museum that it hopes to build overlooking the East River at the foot of Wall Street. Since it appears that the Guggenheim's project is going to take years, Ms. Beckelman has agreed to oversee the planning and development of the American Craft Museum's new home at 2 Columbus Circle. She will remain a consultant to the Guggenheim.

Competitive Fees
Phillips, de Pury & Luxembourg, the struggling third-place auction house, announced this week that it was raising the fees it charges buyers to match those of its competitors. It will now charge 19.5 percent of the first $100,000 and 10 percent of any amount above that. Sotheby's and Christie's have been charging these fees since the spring. (Phillips' buyers' premium had been 15 percent of the first $50,000 and 10 percent after that.) The only exceptions are for sales of jewelry and watches, for which Phillips will charge 18 percent on the first $100,000 and 10 percent after that. For Swiss art it will charge a flat 18 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The Birth of Venus" by Alexandre Cabanel, which is expected to bring between $400,000 and $600,000. (Christie's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BUDGETS (84%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (68%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



521 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Unwanted Coins 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "Brother, Can We Spare the Penny?" (NYC column, Sept. 17), Clyde Haberman muses about the fate of the penny. But why not debate the merits of the lowly nickel, too? 
 Without these coins, prices would be easier to calculate for those of us who are arithmetically challenged. Removing them from circulation would also encourage the use of one-dollar coins, which last longer and ultimately cost less than paper dollar bills to produce.
Supporters of the penny argue that it continues to be a profitable venture for the United States Mint. But the mint can make even more on each larger-denomination coin. More important, the cost to the economy of handling pennies and nickels would be eliminated.

JEFF FLEMING
Milwaukee, Sept. 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COINS & COINAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: US MINT (57%)

PERSON: FLEMING, JEFF; HABERMAN, CLYDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



522 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
Living the Fantasy At Full Throttle

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
THERE'S a motorcycle on my tail, and it's bugging me. He's a reasonably serious dude. (I think so, anyway; what do I know about motorcycles?) In any case, as we head up the mountain maybe 20 yards apart, he's leaning hard into the switchback curves, back and forth, left and right, swiveling with fluid aggressiveness on the upright axis and making sharply acute angles with the road. He's cool to watch through the rearview mirror of this purring and potent hot-guymobile I'm at the wheel of, this manifestation of my wished-for middle-age libido, though I feel it as a clear affront that I can't lose him.
 The narrow, not quite two-lane road climbs drastically and winds dangerously on Mount Tamalpais near San Francisco, and all the other drivers (in their family sedans, tank-like S.U.V.'s and four-cylinder five-seaters that all look the same these days no matter what country they're made in), have instantly gotten the message when I've appeared behind them; as if with a gulp, they've all pulled off to the side, squeezed uncomfortably onto the shoulder and let me go by with resentment on their faces and a secret salute in their hearts. But this biker, he's hanging in. And I didn't come all the way out here to have my manhood challenged, believe me. I came here to flaunt it, such as it is. 
 I'm not a car guy, per se, though I am male, after all. That is, I have the chromosome. It's a recessive trait, fortunately; I live in Manhattan. But I've owned cars, even a new car. A nice, expensive one, in fact, a convertible. All right, so I sold it to pay for psychotherapy, but that's beside the point. Actually not; both have a lot to do with bolstering self-image.
In fact, self-image is the reason I'm driving what I'm driving where I'm driving it. Not that mine needs bolstering at the moment (adjusting, perhaps), but the idea of driving as a metaphor for masculinity seemed worth testing.
So I came here to Mount Tamalpais State Park in Marin County, just north of the Golden Gate Bridge, which just happens to be the place where more car commercials are filmed than in any other. It's a fantasy locale, in other words, where television images tell you you're supposed to envision yourself as the kind of driver you're not but wish to be, and maybe by extension the kind of man you've always been in your curious, wishful dreams.
The car, a test vehicle provided to The New York Times for a fee, is a new BMW Z8, silver, the kind that James Bond drove in "The World Is Not Enough," which, as images of manhood go, is pretty much antithetical to my own reality and coincidental with my reveries; I'm not claiming any particular originality in my daydreams. It really pleased me when a teenager on a skateboard called to me as I left the parking lot of my motel.
"Yo, James, nice car, dude," he shouted. "Peel out!"
It's a sports car of sports cars: low to the ground, with a long snout, snazzy dual tailpipes, tight steering, red and black leather interior and a simple elegant dash, not to mention a sound system better than the one I have at home (even though all I'm listening to is NPR -- so shoot me).
The accelerator pedal was so responsive it seemed to react when I sneezed. (Without effort, I got it up to 110 on the freeway, and the car just seemed to be coming out of a yawn and showing some interest in the driver when I began to worry about the police and chickened out down to the speed limit. Some James Bond.) The retail price is somewhere north of $130,000.
And it is made for the roads of Mount Tam: the climbing curves that dip in and out of a pine forest on the Panoramic Highway on the way in; the caverns, cliffs and twisting, tire-squealing hairpins of Ridgecrest Boulevard heading inland to the mountain's east peak; the straw-colored hills and fields with the precipitous drops toward the distant Pacific and views from above the clouds on Bolinas Ridge Road; and the magnificent drop through the viney redwoods to Lily Lake on Bolinas Fairfax Road, countless S-curves cutting through fog that blows in suddenly like cold smoke.
The variegated terrain is one thing that makes Mount Tam so appealing to auto manufacturers and their advertising agencies. The scenery isn't immediately locatable; in a way, it's generically beautiful, which allows commercials to speak to a national audience; your fantasy just might be possible in your neighborhood. And there are a lot of different fantasies you can create up there, from exotic family vacation to lovey-dovey-couple-in-an-econo-compact to luxury cruise to, well, James Bond. (Another thing is that there are few roadside eyesores like telephone poles, guard rails and signs. Also, the roads are owned by the state parks department, which charges no use fee.)
In any case, the photo and film crews go up there in a steady parade. According to a list compiled by the California Film Commission, some 60 or so different ads have been shot on Mount Tam since 1996, including spots for dozens of makes and models, from BMW, Porsche and Mercedes-Benz to Honda, Ford and Subaru.
"You can shoot anything up there," said Jeff Miller, a freelance producer of commercials who has shot ads for Mazda and Lexus on Mount Tam. "It is almost always clear because even when San Francisco is clouded in you're above the cloud level, and what you get is a layer of cotton. On a clear day it's spectacular as well. I've been there when there are paragliders, and it's unbelievable."
Unbelievable isn't a bad word, because the combination of the scenery, the blacktop and the sports car gave me an experience unlike any I've ever had. If it were only the car, I'd be afraid of being perceived as one of those guys with two divorces, an orangey tan, a comb-over and ponytail (even though I have none of those things) trying to send out sugar daddy vibes to young babes. But the environment clearly influences this scenario, and the only reaction I get from anyone, aside from that teenager, is a 70-something gentleman's stopping me in the parking lot of the motel to reminisce about his T-Bird.
In any case, on the mountain, it feels like a visit to another world, a place where there is, indeed, such a thing as a driving muscle that makes you feel hormonal when you flex it. I confess to a testosterone rush; well, maybe not a rush so much as a gradual accrual.
For two long afternoons, Mount Tam has been miraculously and happily free of film crews (though I did run into some habitual park users who crabbed about the clogged roads and traffic jams the crews cause). And I began the way you might expect a city-dwelling, subway-riding, pale-skinned, confrontation-avoiding, middle-age fellow to begin: tentatively, grinding the gears occasionally, underusing the power in my control, and naturally terrified of an accident or even of scratching the slick paint job that probably cost more than all of my furniture.
As I grew more confident and adventurous behind the wheel, however, more eager to test the Z8's cornering capabilities at higher speeds and higher altitudes, more able to soak in the scenery as I drove without losing concentration and my hold on the road, more intent on tailgating the not-so-fierce, not-so-speedy, not-so-opulent vehicles on the mountain and forcing them humbly to the shoulder, I felt my spine straightening and a swagger gathering in my chest. I felt like a worthy person, a topic of conversation. I felt like anything that was have-able was something I deserved as much as anyone did. This was, after all, my own personal commercial I was temporarily living in.
As for the manliness thing, I don't know. The encounter with the guy on the motorcycle gives me a clue. It is the last couple of hours of my time on Mount Tam, my last ascent up into the park. I'm pushing it, being as reckless as I get, feeling my oats. It's in my head that I want to take this guy, dust him, make him feel like he can't keep up. Does he feel the same way? Is this an actual contest? We go up the mountain, maybe 20 yards apart the whole way; he never really gains on me, but I can't tell if he's trying. At some point, he veers off onto a fork in the road, leaving me to ponder my performance. How manly am I? Manly enough? It doesn't matter what fantasy you're in; there's always some doubt that creeps in on that score, isn't there?

GRAPHIC: Photos: AD GAME -- In the tracks of a car ad on Mount Tamalpais. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. F1); MY REVERIES -- The BMW Z8 is the stuff that men's daydreams are made of. (pg. F9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); MOUNTAINS (90%); STATE PARKS (89%); MEN (73%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AUTOMOBILES; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; ADVERTISING 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%) MOUNT TAMALPAIS STATE PARK (CALIF); CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



523 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Leaves Quotas Intact, but Says It Can Pump More 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: OSAKA, Japan, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries left its current production quotas intact at a meeting today but declared that it was ready to pump extra oil on short notice if shortages developed, including any resulting from an American attack on Iraq. 
 By deciding not to authorize any additional pumping of crude, OPEC makes it somewhat more likely that inventories will continue to fall in oil-importing countries, which in turn could lead to higher prices that would damage an already fragile global economy. 
 But OPEC ministers went out of their way before and after their meeting today to say that they were prepared to increase output at a moment's notice if any acute shortages developed and if prices soared for any reason. 
Oil traders had been expecting OPEC to leave quotas unchanged today, and the price of crude oil rose only 2 cents, to $29.50 a barrel, in trading in New York. 
Rilwanu Lukman, the current president of OPEC and Nigeria's top oil official, said at a news conference after the meeting that while the group had not specifically discussed its response to an attack on Iraq, the member countries would respond immediately to any shortages that an attack might cause. "'We stand ready to move," he said.
Some ministers from Arab countries also said that they were ready to pump more oil quickly to keep oil prices stable if war occurred. "If there is a supply disruption, we will satisfy the demand in the market, whatever the reason," said Chakib Khelil, Algeria's minister of energy and mines. The cartel is now officially pumping 21.7 million barrels of oil a day, although industry experts estimate that member countries are exceeding that by about 1.5 million barrels a day.
Alvaro Silva Calderon, OPEC's secretary general, cautioned in an interview tonight, however, that while the cartel wanted stable markets, the effects of a war in Iraq could not be predicted. "Whether there is a war is out of the control of OPEC -- the consequences of a war are out of the control of any person," he said.
OPEC scheduled its next meeting for Dec. 12 in Vienna. Mr. Khelil of Algeria said that the group wanted to wait until then in the hope that the economic health of major oil-consuming nations and the political situation in Iraq would become clearer.
Still, OPEC ministers have changed quotas in the past by using telephone conference calls, and could do so again if the need arose, Mr. Lukman noted. 
A communique released at the end of today's meeting said that "OPEC is committed to continuing to monitor the market and to taking any further measures, including the convening of extraordinary meetings, when deemed necessary, as has been done in the past, to maintain prices within the range of $22-$28" a barrel. (OPEC tracks the prices of seven grades of oil, and its benchmark is typically a couple of dollars lower than the price of oil traded in New York.)
Iraq is one of the 11 members of OPEC, although it has no production quota from OPEC because its output has been limited by United Nations restrictions and, more recently, has slowed to a trickle because of a series of pricing disputes. Saddam Hasan, Iraq's deputy oil minister, led the Iraqi delegation in attending all the meetings here today but did not speak to reporters.
A bigger concern for oil traders lies in the proximity of the Iraqi army to the oil fields of Kuwait. Iraqi forces destroyed much of the pumping equipment during their retreat in the Persian Gulf war in 1991, although production resumed with surprising swiftness after replacement parts were flown in.
Sheik Ahmad al-Fahd al-Sabah, Kuwait's acting oil minister, warned here before the start of the meeting that Iraq could retaliate against Kuwaiti oil fields if the United States attacked Baghdad. "Yes, he has done it before -- we have to be worried all the time," Sheik Sabah said.
Mr. Lukman and other oil officials here said that they did not believe recent warnings from oil-consuming nations that oil supplies were too low, pushing oil prices higher as a result. Mr. Lukman estimated that fears about a possible war in Iraq had pushed up prices by $3 or $4 a barrel, and noted that prices had fallen more than a dollar a barrel in a single day earlier this week when Iraq said that it would let weapons inspectors in again.
"It showed perhaps we are right in assuming the price is not due to fundamentals," he said.
The International Energy Agency, a Paris-based group that represents oil-importing countries and tends to push for greater production and lower prices, has been warning lately that stockpiles are not high enough. Antoine Halff, a principal administrator of the agency, said today that what mattered was not the official quotas but how much oil is actually produced by OPEC, especially given that many countries have been cheating lately and producing more than their quotas.
"Official OPEC quotas don't matter as much as actual production," he said.
Mr. Lukman said that OPEC wanted member countries to show greater discipline in adhering to their quotas, but characterized compliance as "voluntary" and gave little emphasis to the subject. Oil analysts said that OPEC was at the very least turning a blind eye to overproduction, treating it as a way to balance supply and demand and stabilize prices without resorting to changes in quotas, which require a lot of negotiation.
"It has been coordinated cheating, and that shows the organization is aware of the need to supply the market," said Raad Alkadiri, an analyst with PFC, a Washington consulting group formerly known as the Petroleum Finance Company.
Today's meeting was haunted by ministers' grim memories of their last meeting in Asia, which was held in Jakarta in 1997. OPEC members raised quotas then just as Asian economies turned out to be heading for a crash, and the combination produced extremely low oil prices in 1998 and 1999 that ruined the budgets of many oil exporters.
As Mr. Lukman observed this evening at the conclusion of his news conference, "We don't want a repeat of Jakarta, and maybe that has something to do with our caution."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rilwanu Lukman, above, the president of OPEC and Nigeria's top oil official, spoke to reporters before the start of the OPEC meeting in Osaka, Japan, yesterday. Kuwait's acting oil minister warned before the meeting that Iraq could retaliate against Kuwaiti oil fields if the United States attacked Baghdad. (Associated Press)(pg. W7) Chart: "Pumping Oil"OPEC oil ministers, meeting in Japan, left their oil production quotas for 10 member nations at 21.7 million barrels a day, unchanged from the level they had set in January. Some members exceed their production targets. Graph shows the OPEC production* rate and OPEC quota since 2000. *Production for July, August and September 2002 are projections. Figures are for 10 OPEC countries: Algeria, Indonesia, Iran, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Venezuela. The United Nations sets production levels for Iraq. (Source: Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CARTELS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); FUTURES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); TELECONFERENCING (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); POLITICS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHORTAGES; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); OSAKA, JAPAN (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); NIGERIA (93%); ALGERIA (93%); KUWAIT (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



524 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 579 words

PERSON: Derek Davies 

HEADLINE: Derek Davies, 71, Top Editor Of Influential Asian Review 

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Derek Davies, an editor of the Far Eastern Economic Review for 25 years who built the magazine into a major source of news and comment on the region despite his love-hate relationship with its prickly rulers, died on Sept. 15 in Antibes. He was 71 and lived in the south of France. 
 The cause was liver cancer, his daughter, Sian, said. 
 The Far Eastern Economic Review was little more than a single sheet of newsprint when Mr. Davies joined the staff in 1963. He became editor two years later and developed it into a magazine that resembled The Economist in its seriousness of style and range of interests.
When he left in 1990, the review had a circulation of about 75,000 and was providing news, comment and analysis of political, economic and business developments in the region as well as coverage of the cultural and artistic scene.
The magazine was edited in Hong Kong, which throughout Mr. Davies's tenure was a British crown colony where its editorial independence was respected. But relations with other regional governments, unused to independent reporting on their activities, were often difficult. This was particularly true of Singapore, which was run by strongman Lee Kwan Yew during all Mr. Davies's time as editor of the Review and with whom he had an almost constant quarrel.
In 1977, after a barely contested election in which his People's Action Party won every seat in the legislature, Mr. Lee moved against journalists and human rights activists who had irritated him during the campaign. Ho Kwon Ping, the Review's Singapore correspondent, was accused of endangering national security and fined $3,000.
Later the government accused Mr. Davies of participating in "a diabolical international Communist plot" to poison relations between Singapore and neighbouring Malaysia. Mr. Davies denied this, but Mr. Ho was arrested again and sent to prison.
In the 1980's Mr. Lee banned the Review in Singapore after it published an article about the detention of Roman Catholic church workers.
In China the Review's correspondent, Serge Ivanovitch Kost, was arrested during the Cultural Revolution and sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment. He later emigrated to Australia. 
Mr. Davies also quarreled with Western governments over their tendency to discriminate against Asia's supercompetitive export industries. In 1971 he vigorously attcked the Nixon administration's threat to impose new restrictions on American textile imports unless Asian countries agreed to voluntary export restraints.
"The Japanese, Taiwanese, South Koreans and the people of Hong Kong are together going to contribute to the campaign funds which President Nixon hopes will get him re-elected next November," Mr. Davies wrote scathingly in the Review.
Born in London on March 9, 1931, Mr. Davies was educated at Cambridge University. He went to work for the Reuters news agency, and in 1957 he joined the British foreign service and was sent to Hanoi and then Vienna. It was in Austria he met Shizue Sanada, a Japanese music student. They decided to marry, but his employers objected, so he left the foreign service. 
After a year studying Mandarin at the School of African and Oriental Studies in London, he joined the Far Eastern Economic Review. He left the Review in 1990. and after a year as journalist in residence at the East West Center in Hawaii, he retired in 1992.
Mr. Davies is survived by his wife, two sons, Nicholas of London and Robin of Tokyo, and his daughter, Sian, of London.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Derek Davies (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLITICS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); PRISONS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); SENTENCING (62%); RELIGION (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); LIVER DISEASE (56%); CANCER (56%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); TEXTILES (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); MAGAZINES 

ORGANIZATION: FAR EASTERN ECONOMIC REVIEW 

RICHARD NIXON (53%) DAVIES, DEREK; LEWIS, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SINGAPORE (94%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



525 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Housing Construction Declined 2.2% in August 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The number of housing units that builders started fell 2.2 percent in August to the lowest level in four months, the government reported today, extending a rough patch in the residential construction market.
 The Commerce Department reported today that housing construction dropped last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.61 million units, a 2.2 percent decline from July's level. That was the lowest level since April. 
 August's decline surprised analysts, who were forecasting a rise of about 1.8 percent. 
Housing construction has been down for three consecutive months, something not seen since May, June and July 2000. Even with the declines, the level of housing was considered respectable. Residential construction activity held up in last year's recession and has helped to support the recovery. A big factor behind that is low mortgage rates. 
In another report, new claims for unemployment insurance fell last week by 9,000, to 424,000, the Labor Department reported today. Claims in excess of 400,000 are in indication that the labor market remains sluggish. 
The agency also reported that the number of workers continuing to collect jobless benefits rose by 71,000, to 3.615 million in the week that ended Sept. 7. In addition, the four-week moving average of first-time claims, a less volatile indicator, rose to 418,500, from 411,250 the week before last.
The Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, said today that the economy was headed in the right direction, but improvements were uneven. The recovery, he said, won't be "smooth, uniform, yogurtlike." 
Low mortgage rates have given solid support to the housing market and have fueled a refinancing boom that has left people in a better position to spend. 
In August, home builders said they were less optimistic about sales amid economic uncertainties, the roller coaster stock market and eroding consumer confidence. 
That "fear factor" probably was behind the unexpected drop in housing starts in August, said David Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders. 
The association's monthly survey for September showed that builders' confidence about sales rebounded strongly this month. 
In the housing report, construction of single-family homes fell 4.4 percent in August from July, to a rate of 1.25 million. But work on apartments, condominiums and other multifamily projects increased 8.2 percent, to a rate of 330,000. 
By region, housing construction in the Northeast rose 9.4 percent in August, to a rate of 174,000, and it went up 3.1 percent in the South, to a rate of 768,000. But in the Midwest, housing construction fell 18.7 percent, to a rate of 295,000, and in the West, it dipped 1.6 percent to a rate of 372,000.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows the number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time (4-week moving average) since March 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph: "Housing Construction"New private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Aug. DataStarts: 1.609Permits: 1.669 Graph shows the number of permits authorized and new private housing starts. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (96%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

PERSON: O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



526 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Slovaks, Casting Ballots, Seem Likely to Choose Change 

BYLINE:  By PETER GREEN 

DATELINE: BRATISLAVA, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The only apparent certainty in elections this weekend in Slovakia is that Vladimir Meciar, the thrice-elected, thrice-ousted former prime minister, is unlikely to regain office.
 NATO and European officials have warned publicly that if Mr. Meciar is in the next government, Slovakia will not join their organizations. The United States ambassador to NATO, Nicholas Burns, said that Mr. Meciar "did not demonstrate a commitment to democracy and the rule of law." 
 Slovak voters seem to have gotten the message. A strong majority see both NATO and the European Union as guarantees of prosperity and political stability sorely needed in a small country of 5.5 million people that split peacefully with the Czech Republic on Jan. 1, 1993. Polls suggest that even if Mr. Meciar's party takes the most votes, it will have less than 20 percent, and no major party will join him in a coalition. 
"The larger issue is decided already, said Milan Nic, of Rock the Vote, a campaign to increase voter turnout among the young. "There will be no Meciar, which lets the E.U. and NATO accept us. Now the question is about who gets what."
At least seven parties, including Mr. Meciar's Movement for a Democratic Slovakia, have a chance to enter Parliament after Slovaks cast ballots on Friday and Saturday. The political calculus will be complex.
The current favorite appears to be the political newcomer Robert Fico, 38, a former Communist youth activist who promises law and order. Despite his populist tone, he sounds far friendlier to free business and media, NATO and the European Union than does Mr. Meciar. In polls, his party, Smer, or Direction, is running neck-and-neck with Mr. Meciar's Movement with about 17 percent.
A televised debate this week revealed little love lost between the various parties who oppose Mr. Meciar, indicating how hard it will be to forge a viable coalition government.
Pavol Rusko, a media magnate who is using his own television station, Markiza, to back his probusiness campaign, lashed out at Mr. Fico, accusing him of taking money from earlier Meciar backers. Mr. Fico replied in kind, noting that Mr. Meciar had attended Mr. Rusko's wedding and approved the licensing of TV Markiza. 
Prime Minister Mikulas Dzurinda, a Christian Democrat, accused Mr. Fico of acting more like the Austrian populist Jorg Haider than left-of-center leaders like Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany.
For nearly a decade, Mr. Meciar was the bad boy of Slovak politics, whose rough ways, crude jokes, boyish smile and anti-Western rhetoric won him the support of a bedrock third of voters, largely in rural parts of this mountainous country. 
He led Slovakia to independence and took on the European Union, NATO, the United States and the country's 500,000-strong ethnic Hungarian minority. Corruption and crony capitalism were his hallmarks, as were various scandals -- most notably the abduction of the son of a former president.
Even as he belatedly embraced NATO and the European Union in the past year, Mr. Meciar kept Slovakia in his thrall, in part because his party controls six out of eight regional governments in the country.
In Trencin, a provincial seat an hour's drive from Bratislava, Mr. Meciar's party has long had a tight grip on power. All the regional councillors are members of Mr. Meciar's party, known locally by its Slovak acronym, HZDS, and the local political kingpin, Miroslav Maxon, is a Meciar member of Parliament who was Mr. Meciar's finance minister. 
By his own account, Mr. Maxon has used that influence to secure a new university, a fast highway to Bratislava, and privatization of the region's arms industry and garment factories by Meciar allies.
Vladimir Skola, president of the local chapter of Young Conservatives, sees this as a sign that Mr. Meciar's brand of populism and corruption -- with or without its founder -- will continue to flourish.
"The reason many people like HZDS in this area is precisely because of the corruption, cronyism and clientelism," Mr. Skola said. "Voters here are concerned only about themselves. We have a very underdeveloped political culture." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ETHICS (76%); TRENDS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); CORRUPTION (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%) GREEN, PETER; MECIAR, VLADIMIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: SLOVAKIA (99%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); AUSTRIA (73%) SLOVAKIA; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



527 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Rare Condo Conversion For Central Park West

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
The recent conversion of a 17-story neo-Renaissance building at 93rd Street into a condominium was a rare event along Central Park West. And there aren't likely to be many more newly offered apartments for sale along that elegant avenue any time soon. 
 The building, 327 Central Park West, with spectacular views of the park and the skyline from some of its 87 apartments, was the first rental building on the avenue to be turned into a condominium or a co-op since 1998. All the available apartments in the building were snatched up within six weeks. Given the conversion craze of the 1980's and a sprinkling of conversions in the 90's, most of the residential buildings along the western edge of the park have already made the transition. 
 "In the future, there are not going to be a significant number of apartments coming on line for sale with a Central Park West address," said Jonathan Miller, president of the Miller Samuel appraisal company. 
Mr. Miller said that of the residential buildings lining Central Park West from Columbus Circle to 110th Street, 39 are already co-ops, 15 are condominiums, 5 are town houses and 17 remain as rental buildings. Only 4 of those 17 have at least 100 apartments, Mr. Miller said, "so the likelihood of additional supply of apartments for sale is limited."
Prospective buyers at 327 Central Park West were apparently aware of that.
"We opened our sales office in December and sold out by Feb. 1," said Ed Berry of Marketing Directors, the company coordinating sales for the building's sponsor, the 93rd Street L.L.C. Closings on most of the apartments are to be held by the end of this month.
"We sold 31 apartments to outsiders, all the vacant apartments," Mr. Berry said. The average outsider price in the offering plan was $947,859, which closely matched the average price of $935,809 recorded for all condominium sales on the Upper West Side during the second quarter of this year, Mr. Miller said.
One reason for the rapid sales "was that we converted to a condominium and not a cooperative," Mr. Berry said. "Today, people prefer the freedom that a condominium gives you: the board can't stop you from renting; they don't have the power to turn down anybody you want to sell it to."
For Stacy Fornara, the president of Western Promotions, a company that brings major firms into partnerships to promote their products, the view was the reason she snatched up her one-bedroom penthouse apartment with its 1,500-square-foot terrace.
"I can see in almost every direction because it seems to sit out into the park," Ms. Fornara said. "It's breathtaking during the day and breathtaking at night."
Ms. Fornara, who lives in Phoenix, will be using her penthouse apartment as a second home, since her business requires her to be in New York at least once a month. With closing costs, she paid "in the neighborhood of $1.6 million," she said.
When Mr. Berry showed her the apartment, he told her she was only the second person to see it. "I took one look and said, 'What do you want for a down payment?' " she said. "I'm looking forward to spending time there, especially in the summer, to get out of the Phoenix heat, but also to have business gatherings there on the deck."
The average outsider price for a one-bedroom was $525,000, he said. "We had three different-sized two-bedrooms, and they ranged from $850,000 to $1.9 million," he said. 
Besides the 31 outsiders, 23 insiders chose to buy their apartments -- at an average discount of 22 percent off the outsider price, according to Mr. Miller's calculations. That left 31 apartments remaining under rent regulation.
The 24-hour doorman building was built in 1928. It has a green-awning entrance, marble lobby and large rooms, many with original parquet floors and hexagonal-tile moldings.
Since the late 1950's, the building has been owned by the Melohn family. The lawyer for Melohn Properties, Eliot Zuckerman, said the initial conversion proposal was issued three years ago, but the conversion was delayed as the Melohns brought new principals in as cosponsors. 
Given a degree of uncertainty in the economy, Mr. Zuckerman said, "It was nice to see the market so hot; I guess Central Park West still has a very strong appeal."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The Residential Real Estate column on Sept. 20, about the recent conversion of 327 Central Park West to a condominium, misstated the discount offered to current tenants who bought apartments. It was 40 percent, not 22 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Vanishing Breed"Conversions of rental buildings along Central Park West. 1940's: 21950's: 41960's: 81970's: 71980's: 231990's: 62000 to present: 1 (Source: Miller Samuel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%) HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS; RENTING AND LEASING 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



528 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Helping the Jobless 

BYLINE:  By Hillary Rodham Clinton; Hillary Rodham Clinton is a Democratic senator from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For 23 years, Felix Batista rode the elevator up 106 floors to work as a member of the wait staff at the Windows on the World restaurant. On Sept. 11, everything changed. Mr. Batista was on vacation with his family, and that decision saved his life. That day, he lost 73 coworkers and his job. 
 While the first anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks has come and gone, in New York the needs born out of that tragedy remain. Each step that we take -- whether it is investing $20.9 billion for cleanup and recovery or financing programs to track the health of rescue workers and volunteers at ground zero -- will bring New York closer to recovery. 
 But today, the city's unemployment rate has skyrocketed to 8 percent. Across the state, 553,000 New Yorkers are out of work, with company layoffs and plant closings happening everywhere from Niagara Falls to Rochester. Now 135,000 New Yorkers like Mr. Batista have exhausted their unemployment benefits and are struggling to pay their bills. 
At this time last year, 800,000 Americans had been out of work for six months or longer. That number has nearly doubled to 1.5 million and it is expected to increase to more than 2 million by December.
Congress must act quickly to extend unemployment insurance and disaster unemployment assistance, each for an additional 13 weeks. With more people losing their benefits every day, these extensions have to be passed before Congress adjourns. 
During the recession of the early 90's, Congress extended temporary benefits five times. This year, even in the wake of massive terrorist attacks on our own soil, we have extended benefits only once, and once is not enough. 
The economy was already in a recession on Sept. 10. It was devastated on Sept. 11, and is stalled now. Some forecasters say we are experiencing a "jobless recovery" -- one in which stockbrokers, electricians, insurance agents, computer technicians, textile workers and restaurant workers have formed lines many blocks long to attend job fairs. New revelations about corporate irresponsibility and illegality have added more doubt to an already weakened economy. 
Extending unemployment insurance would put money into the hands of the very people who will turn right around and put it back into our economy. In 1999, the Department of Labor found that when unemployment insurance is extended, every dollar in benefits generates $2.15 in gross domestic product. Giving more purchasing power to the more than 8 million Americans who are currently unemployed would be a powerful stimulus for our economy. 
After Sept. 11, it was clear we needed a serious push for homeland security. Now we need to restore a measure of economic security to all Americans, and extending unemployment benefits is a responsible and affordable way to do so. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); RECESSION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); HIJACKING (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); INSURANCE (70%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (69%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



529 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Archdiocese Trims Jobs and Ministries 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
On the heels of dedicating its $189 million cathedral complex, the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles is laying off workers and paring services to close a $4.3 million budget deficit.
 The archdiocese, which serves five million Catholics and is the largest in the nation, is cutting at least 60 jobs at its headquarters and eliminating or reducing several programs to balance its $42 million operating budget. 
 The archdiocese subsidizes the operations of the cathedral, and critics had predicted that it could lead to such cuts. But Cardinal Roger M. Mahony blamed primarily a decline in revenues from investments for the deficit. 
Tod Tamberg, director of communications for the archdiocese, said, "It is just a coincidence that this would happen at the same time that the cathedral would open." Mr. Tamberg, said the money for the cathedral was raised through a separate development effort, the bulk of it during the robust economy of the mid-1990's.
As income from the stock market has fallen, he said, operating costs have continued to increase. "This is a very, very difficult time for all of us," Mr. Tamberg said. "Unfortunately, we are not exempt from the reality of the prevailing economic conditions. We all wish it could be different."
Potential settlements in sexual abuse lawsuits also loom over the archdiocese. Mr. Tamberg said the archdiocese had paid $3.5 million in settlements since 1985, with insurance covering an additional $4 million to $5 million. He said potential settlements were not a factor in the cuts, but he said they would play a role in planning.
The Los Angeles archdiocese is not alone in cutting back. The New York archdiocese last year cut 23 jobs and closed 11 ministry offices and the Boston archdiocese cut 14 jobs and reduced its operating budget by about $8 million.
In Los Angeles, diocesan officials said they were trying to buffer the blow to employees by giving them as much notice as possible and by providing severance packages. The standard package will be about one and a half months of pay for every year of service, Mr. Tamberg said. The first group of those notified will be laid off in mid-October and the rest at the end of the year.
The eight departments being closed are: the Office of Ministry with Persons with Disabilities; the Detention Ministry, which works with those in jail; the Archdiocesan Council of Catholic Women; Ecumenical and Inter-Religious Affairs; the Ethnic Groups Ministry; the Office of Respect Life, which supports anti-abortion programs; Campus Ministry; and the Ministry with Lesbian and Gay Catholics.
Mr. Tamberg said that in many cases the work of the offices would be picked up by the 287 parishes in the archdiocese, and cited the gay and lesbian ministry as an example.
"The office here at the archdiocese is a coordinating office and a touchstone for the various gay and lesbian groups," he said. "This office will close but the ministry in that area is very, very strong and that will continue."
But Fran Ruth, coordinator for the gay and lesbian ministry, described the elimination of her department as devastating.
"We have always been secure in the knowledge that the cardinal and the archdiocese has supported our ministry in the face of those who would like to see us collapse," Ms. Ruth said. Adding that she felt it might send a message "to those who do not care for us that his support has been discontinued, although that is not the case."
Ms. Ruth said the move was particularly untimely because some critics contend the sexual abuse scandal is the fault of gay priests. "This is the time above all that we need education out there to let people know this is not the case," she said.
She described the mood among workers at the archdiocese as extreme sadness and anger. "We're going to try and keep it going, but politically it was always nice to have the archdiocese publicly supporting us by having a ministry here," Ms. Ruth said. "It just spoke volumes."
Laurie W. Oester, director of the campus ministry, said she feared it would be hard to fill the gap created by the closing of its offices on six campuses. "It's the students we're most concerned about," Ms. Oester said. "The students on the campuses are really the future of the church." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); LAYOFFS (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (83%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); LITIGATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SEVERANCE PAY (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); ETHNICITY (50%); ABORTION (50%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



530 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Higher Home Heating Bills Expected This Winter 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
Consumers should expect to pay more to heat their homes this winter because rising demand and declining supplies are driving up the prices of natural gas and heating oil, analysts say.
 The price of natural gas has been rising steadily over the last several days and is now close to its high for the last 12 months. 
 Gas for October delivery climbed yesterday to $3.856 per million British thermal units, up 6.9 cents, or 1.8 percent, and industry analysts expect the price to hover at $4 to $5 per million B.T.U.'s for much of the winter.
A report issued yesterday by a trade group representing natural gas producers and marketers predicted that a strengthening economy and a colder winter combined with falling natural gas output could lead to steeper prices. 
Analysts also predicted that heating oil prices would rise as tighter supplies and jitters over a possible war in Iraq bolster the price of crude oil. The price to consumers who call to have their heating oil tanks filled in winter could rise by 22 cents a gallon, said Dave Costello, an economist with the Energy Information Administration, the analysis arm of the Department of Energy.
"Natural gas and heating oil customers will see higher prices this winter compared to last winter, assuming it is a normal winter," said John Lichtblau, chairman of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, a consulting group. "But there won't be anything as dramatic as a shortage."
Slightly more than 55 percent of American households heat with gas, and about 10 percent use heating oil, mostly in the Northeast.
The weather alone, if it follows normal patterns, could be almost enough to ensure higher fuel bills. Last year's shirt-sleeve winter greatly reduced heating demand. Temperatures this winter are expected to be higher than average but lower than last year, according to the report by the trade group, the Natural Gas Supply Association; that outlook is based on predictions by the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration. The economic recovery is also expected to gather more momentum, analysts predicted, and that could increase industrial demand for natural gas.
The Natural Gas Supply Association estimated that the amount of gas in storage would reach record levels this year. But during the winter, only 12 percent of gas used for heating comes from storage.
At the same time, oil and gas companies are drilling fewer wells and producing less natural gas, according to the Natural Gas Supply Association report. Usually, low prices discourage drilling, but this year, prices have hovered around a robust $3 per million B.T.U.'s, leaving analysts somewhat bewildered about the reduced drilling, said Mary Menino, manager of North American natural gas at Energy Security Analysis, a research firm in Wakefield, Mass.
Industry executives said several factors had made the industry reluctant to pursue new fields aggressively. The fields available in North America are more mature and thus have smaller reservoirs of gas, and larger fields are off limits because of environmental concerns, they said. New technology also enables companies to deplete wells more quickly. 
Companies usually finance new drilling from cash flow. But when they have had to turn to the capital markets lately, they have found them stingy, industry executives said, given the rampant doubts about energy companies since Enron's collapse.
Oil and gas producers are also weary of the price volatility that in the past caused them to scramble to find drilling rigs when prices were high and idle them when prices fell.
"People drill based on the outlook for prices," said Britt Dearman, a special projects executive at the Apache Corporation, an oil and gas company based in Houston. "Prices have been so volatile that companies are not comfortable" with drilling, he said.
Apache is among a chorus of industry voices complaining about what they say are inaccuracies in the natural gas supply data sent out by the Energy Information Administration and how such errors skew prices and may discourage drilling. Thomas R. Driscoll, a natural gas analyst with Lehman Brothers, said in a recent report that "E.I.A. has systematically overestimated both supply and demand over the past five years." The Energy Information Administration denies that such grave errors are made.
Heating oil prices are also creeping up. Since last year, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has sharply reduced its output and Iraq has cut its exports. The oil markets finally felt the full effect of such moves over the summer as the price of oil drifted above $25 a barrel. Now, fears about a war in Iraq and possible disruptions in supplies from the Persian Gulf have added a "war premium" to the price of oil, buoying it to about $30 a barrel. Crude oil stocks in the United States are lower than average.
Industry analysts expect crude oil prices to stay high until some of the uncertainty around American military action dissipates. For example, if the United States attacks and oil supplies continue, the price could fall. Or the price could drop if war is averted and Iraqi exports resume. But such resolution is probably months away, far after the heating season begins.
The price of heating oil could also be influenced by declining inventories.
As petroleum prices rose this year, refiners cut their output of heating oil and tweaked their production to yield more gasoline over the summer, the prime driving season. There was also a lot of heating oil left over from the warm winter, said Aaron Brady, an oil analyst with Energy Security Analysis.
As a result, "at a time when we should see an increase in heating oil stocks, they're decreasing," Mr. Brady said. "They're still in the middle of the comfortable range, but they are heading down." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (91%); HEATING OIL (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); MINING OUTPUT (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEATING OIL; GAS (FUEL) 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (82%) NATURAL GAS SUPPLY ASSN; ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA; COSTELLO, DAVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



531 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Radio Telescope Proves A Big Bang Prediction 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS OVERBYE 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
After 271 20-hour nights of staring at the Antarctic sky, a radio telescope at the South Pole has confirmed a critical prediction of the Big Bang theory of the origin of the universe, astronomers from the University of Chicago and the University of California announced here today.
 The result reassured cosmologists that their theories of the universe were on track and pioneered a new technique that greatly increases cosmologists' ability to know what was going on in the early universe. 
 Using their telescope in effect as a pair of Polaroid sunglasses, the team, headed by Dr. John Carlstrom of Chicago, discovered that a faint radio haze thought to be the fading remnant of the Big Bang itself is slightly polarized. That is to say, its flickering electromagnetic fields that constitute light waves were not completely jumbled, vibrating in all different planes as they sped to Earth, like feathers sticking out at all angles at the end of an arrow. Rather, they showed a slight preference for one plane of vibration, as if all the feathers lined up. 
That, theorists say, is the predicted signature of the last bounce of light from hot, electrified cosmic gases just as the universe was cooling to the point where atoms could form, 400,000 years after the universe was born.
"The prediction is bang on," Dr. Carlstrom told a rapt audience of more than 200 cosmologists at a conference at the Adler Planetarium here. "We think we know the universe, but if the polarization is not there at the predicted level we're back to the drawing board." 
The findings lend more credence to many of the more preposterous-sounding conclusions that have made headlines over the last few years, which have united famously fractious cosmologists in a view of a universe born 14 billion years ago -- a view in which ordinary matter is swamped with mysterious dark matter and dark energy and is apparently accelerating into the cosmic night. 
"We're stuck with a preposterous universe," Dr. Carlstrom said. Two papers describing the work will be posted on the team's Web site, astro.uchicago.edu/dasi, he said.
Other cosmologists responded with a mixture of glee and relief, saying it would have been bigger news if the polarization had not been found. "If you had any doubts that this radiation is from the Big Bang, this should quash them," said Dr. Michael Turner, a cosmologist at the University of Chicago.
Dr. Martin Rees, a cosmologist at the University of Cambridge and the Astronomer Royal, who suggested looking for polarization in the cosmic radiation 34 years ago, said it was "gratifying" but emphasized that it was only the first step in a campaign to understand the early universe. 
Dr. Max Tegmark, a cosmologist at the University of Pennsylvania, said, "In my opinion, this is huge and marks the beginning of a a new era in cosmic microwave background research." 
The observations also represented another notch in the belt for one of the most controversial ingredients in the standard model of the Big Bang. Known as inflation, it posits that the universe underwent a hyperexplosive growth spurt early in its existence. Although it is successful as a theory, astronomers admit that they do not know what caused inflation or precisely when it happened. 
The new results are consistent with inflation but do not establish it as unquestionable truth. Future polarization measurements, with more sensitive radio telescopes, Dr. Carlstrom said, might detect the roiling of space left behind by its wrenching outburst and confirm that it had happened and when. "We can go from checking inflation to actually testing it," Dr. Carlstrom said.
The cosmic radiation has transfixed astronomers since it was discovered in 1965 by two Bell Laboratories radio astronomers, Dr. Arno Penzias and Dr. Robert Wilson; they later received the Nobel prize. According to theoretical calculations, this radiation is in effect a snapshot of the universe at an age of 400,000 years. But water vapor in the atmosphere and the faintness of the microwaves makes them hard to study except from satellites or balloons or very high altitude observatories. The South Pole instrument, known as DASI, for Degree Angular Scale Interferometer, is about two miles high, Dr. Carlstrom said, and since it is so cold in Antarctica, the air holds very little water vapor.
Since 1992 NASA's COBE satellite and a host of smaller instruments have examined the cosmic background and confirmed that faint ripples or blotches -- the seeds of future cosmic structures like galaxies -- follow the pattern predicted by inflationary models. But while mapping these blotches reveals the distribution of matter at that time in the universe, Dr. Carlstrom said, mapping the polarization of the cloud tells how the material is actually moving and has the potential of containing much more information. "It's like going from a black-and-white television to color," he said.
For the last year, polarization measurements have been the Next Big Thing in cosmology, with telescopes like DASI being converted to that purpose. Dr. Carlstrom's group won the race today, but the bigger race is only beginning, the cosmologists say. At least a tenfold increase in sensitivity is needed to detect the signature of inflation in the cosmic background, so-called gravitational waves that would ripple space itself, according to Einstein's general theory of relativity. Dr. Turner has called these the "smoking gun" signature of inflation. Most experts agree that a new generation of satellites and telescopes will be needed to pull it off, but they seemed invigorated by the challenge today.
"It's so exciting to see if we could test inflation," Dr. Carlstrom said, "to be able to look at the universe at 10 (-30) seconds." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (94%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (90%); ASTROPHYSICS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%) SPACE; UNIVERSE; TELESCOPES AND OBSERVATORIES; PHYSICS; LIGHT; RADIO 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%) UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 

PERSON: OVERBYE, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); EARTH (79%); MAINE, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (91%); ANTARCTICA (73%) SOUTH PORTLAND (MAINE)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



532 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: A Civil War Within a Trade Dispute 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
What began as an obscure trade dispute between Europe and the United States has turned into a political brawl over $100 billion in corporate tax breaks that pits many of America's biggest companies against one another.
 In the behind-the-scenes lobbying battle, Boeing is lining up against General Motors, Walt Disney against AOL Time Warner, Caterpillar against Deere, and Microsoft against I.B.M. 
 Business interests are so divided and the corporate intrigue so intense that Congress has become all but paralyzed over the issue. Indeed, many of Washington's high-priced tax lobbyists have clients on both sides of the fight.
The consequences of stalemate, however, could be severe. The World Trade Organization has repeatedly ruled that an American tax break for what are known as foreign sales corporations amounts to an illegal trade subsidy. 
The arrangement provides a huge benefit to many multinationals by allowing American companies to reduce their taxes on profits from exports by channeling sales through a foreign sales corporation, based in a low-tax country.
Boeing saves more than $100 million a year with it. Eastman Kodak saves about $40 million a year.
But if the United States refuses to eliminate or fundamentally change the break, it could ignite a trans-Atlantic trade war. The European Union is entitled to impose up to $4 billion in retaliatory tariffs on American exports -- a reprisal far bigger than any the W.T.O. has ever approved.
Democrats and Republicans both want to come up with an arrangement that repeals the old tax break and replaces it with a new one of roughly the same size.
Despite repeated attempts, however, no one has yet devised a fix that does not hurt somebody, and almost every potential loser wields considerable influence in Congress.
"These guys can calculate down to the dime how much the F.S.C. or any other tax benefit will bring them," said Bill Reinsch, president of the National Foreign Trade Council, an industry lobbying group whose own members are torn over the issue. "You don't have much discussion about what makes good tax policy. You have a discussion about how it affects each company's bottom line."
The only specific proposal to fix the mess has thus far come from Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. His bill would rearrange about $95 billion in corporate tax breaks over the next 10 years, eliminating about $51 billion tied to the export subsidy and replacing it with others that lower taxes for companies that have big operations overseas.
The problem is that the new tax breaks would benefit very different companies than the old ones did. The current beneficiaries are mostly big exporters, among them Boeing, Caterpillar, Microsoft, Walt Disney and Eastman Kodak. The new winners would primarily be American multinationals with extensive factories or services overseas, including General Motors, Coca-Cola, Procter & Gamble, Dow Chemical, Wal-Mart Stores, AOL Time Warner and I.B.M.
European leaders have said they will give the United States time to change its law, but last week they published a huge list of products that could be hit with new tariffs, from Califonia raisins and Florida citrus fruits to Kellogg cereal and Levi's jeans.
"There was a lot of hope that this would go away," Mr. Thomas said. "We now know the hard, cold facts."
The "hard, cold facts" involve more than just taxes. American lawmakers and corporate executives have also been forced to face the reality that an outside institution like the W.T.O. has the power to demand that the United States change its own laws.
The crux of the problem is a tax break that was originally intended to compensate for a basic difference between American and European tax law.
The United States imposes taxes on a worldwide basis, taxing profits of American corporations regardless of where the money is earned. European countries follow a "territorial" system that does not tax foreign earnings. On top of that, European countries effectively exempt exports from the value-added tax that is imposed on most domestic sales.
For years, European and American leaders followed a gentleman's agreement not to challenge each other's tax breaks. But the gentlemen's agreement broke down in 1994, when the European Commission attacked the American tax loophole and took its case to the newly formed W.T.O.
To the surprise of American trade officials, the trade body unequivocally agreed with the Europeans. It cited international trade treaties that categorized any "export contingent" tax break as an unfair and illegal export subsidy.
When Congress passed a new version of the same law, replacing the "foreign sales corporation" with "extraterritorial investment," the tribunal struck that down as a mere fig leaf.
Tax and trade experts say there simply is no tidy solution that will comply with the W.T.O. and not require big changes in the tax code.
"You cannot replace this with anything that is 'export-contingent,' " said John Meaghar, a tax and trade lawyer at the Federal Policy Group. By definition, that makes it almost impossible to replace tax breaks that were created explicitly for exporters. "It's like trying to place a round peg in a square hole," Mr. Meaghar said.
As soon as Mr. Thomas made his proposal to shift the tax breaks over the next decade, companies pounced on it.
"As we look at the bill, the export of U.S. commercial aircraft would become considerably more expensive," said Rudy de Leon, Boeing's vice president in charge of Washington affairs.
Chris Padilla, Kodak's top lobbyist on the issue, initially denounced the bill as the "make film in China" act. Last week, Mr. Padilla said Kodak had found more potential benefits in the Thomas bill but remained wary.
"The question is, how do you find a way to come out at the end of this to improve the competitiveness of American companies without creating massive tax incentives to go off-shore," he said.
Democratic lawmakers on the House tax-writing committee have also pushed the complaint that Mr. Thomas's bill would encourage companies to send jobs overseas.
"If we are giving tax relief to American corporations, it's ironic that the relief is going to corporations that have already decided to leave America for tax purposes," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee.
But leading Republicans on the committee are also opposed. Among them are Jennifer Dunn of Washington, whose state is home to both Boeing and Microsoft; Philip Crane of Illinois, whose district is home to Caterpillar and includes big operations of Boeing; and Sam Johnson of Texas, whose district includes military contractors.
"This bill imposes tax burdens on some of the companies that have been doing business abroad big time," Representative Crane said. "There is an enormous incentive for companies to leave the States."
In an effort to broaden the appeal of his bill, Mr. Thomas included provisions that would clamp down on companies that try to escape federal taxes by reincorporating in tax havens like Bermuda.
That provision helped garner the support of at least one Republican on the tax committee, Nancy L. Johnson of Connecticut. Ms. Johnson's district is home to Stanley Works, which provoked intense local anger by announcing plans, since withdrawn, to establish an official headquarters in Bermuda.
But that same provision angered another Republican, Kevin Brady of Texas, whose district includes several oil-service companies that complained loudly about having their own tax moves derailed.
Yet another source of Republican opposition comes from scores of American subsidiaries of foreign corporations, from DaimlerChrysler and Siemens to Nokia, the Finnish mobile telephone manufacturer.
Foreign companies bitterly complain that they would be badly hurt by a provision that is supposed to penalize companies that try to avoid United States taxes by making interest payments to their foreign parents.
John Engler, the Republican governor of Michigan, which is home to the Chrysler subsidiary of DaimlerChrysler, complained that the bill would "undermine economic development incentives" and drive existing businesses out of the state.
Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, has teamed up with Senator Charles Grassley, Republican of Iowa, to look for a bipartisan solution. But the issue does not really cut along party lines and influential lawmakers confess they are stymied.
Mr. Rangel, the leading Democratic critic of the Thomas bill, said that he did not have any better solution to the riddle.
"I don't know," he admitted. "I don't feel awkward in saying I don't have the answer yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has sponsored a bill aimed at resolving a dispute over $100 billion in corporate tax breaks. But even many Republicans, like Representative Jennifer Dunn of Washington, oppose the plan. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LOBBYING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXPORT PROMOTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SALES TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TAXATION; SALES TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CORPORATIONS; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

COMPANY: AOL INC (72%); BOEING CO (58%); WALT DISNEY CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%) EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (72%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); DIS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; THOMAS, BILL (REP); DUNN, JENNIFER (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%) EUROPE; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



533 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Port Operators On West Coast Cancel Threat Of a Lockout 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
West Coast port operators tonight called off a threatened shutdown of all cargo terminals in Los Angeles and Long Beach after the longshoremen's union ended what management called a slowdown and resumed full staffing at a major terminal.
 Before the workers started showing up for their shifts tonight, the operators organization, the Pacific Maritime Association, accused the International Longshore and Warehouse Union of conducting a "selective strike" this week against the Long Beach facility of Stevedoring Services of America, the nation's largest terminal operator. 
 Both sides retreated from the brink this evening, averting, for now, a work stoppage that could have profoundly affected the economy.
"After a week of withholding labor, the union dispatched workers," said the operators association's chief executive, Joe Miniace. "This is a positive sign, and I am hopeful this signals that the I.L.W.U. and P.M.A. will be able to work together toward a new coast-wide contract." 
Still, the union and the port operators remain far apart on the introduction of new technology into cargo handling. The union fears that modernization will cost jobs, while management says current systems are unable to handle the volume of cargo moving through West Coast ports.
It remained unclear how the dispute would be resolved. Federal officials have offered to mediate.
A lockout would have idled some 5,000 unionized workers and closed the nation's two busiest ports. The port operators had said the labor dispute could quickly spread to other West Coast ports, imperiling the United States economy and global financial markets. The West Coast ports handle more than 40 percent of the seaborne cargo received in the United States, with an annual value of more than $300 billion.
Officials of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union denied that they were engaged in a slowdown or a strike, saying they could not provide enough qualified workers to unload all the ships in Los Angeles and Long Beach. 
"They've created their own crisis," Steve Stallone, a spokesman for the union, said tonight. "We'll put out as many people as we possibly can."
Mr. Miniace of the operators' group accused the union of focusing on Stevedoring Services to gain leverage in negotiations and divide the port operators at a critical point.
The union has been working without a contract since July 1, and the fitful negotiations have clearly reached an impasse. Analysts said a shutdown of West Coast ports lasting more than a few days could severely disrupt commerce and throw financial markets in the United States and Asia into turmoil.
Federal officials offered the services of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
"Before bringing this nation to a standstill through means of a work stoppage or lockout, we encourage the parties to exhaust all means available to them to settle this dispute," Peter J. Hurtgen, director of the mediation service, said.
The White House has raised the possibility of invoking the Taft-Hartley act to prevent a work stoppage.
"We are monitoring it very closely and are pleased that the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service is offering their services," said Sue Hensley, a Labor Department official. 
Retailers and manufacturers depend on the heavy flow of goods through West Coast ports. Christmas goods are now arriving for distribution across the country, and manufacturers rely on a constant stream of parts to maintain production inventories.
Thousands of automobiles made in Japan and South Korea also flow through Los Angeles, along with millions of containers of American exports headed toward Asia.
Robin Lanier of the West Coast Waterfront Coalition, a group of large companies that ship goods through the docks, estimated that a shutdown would cost $1 billion a day for the first five days, and that the cost would rise exponentially after that because of the lack of inventory for so-called just-in-time manufacturing.
Stephen S. Cohen, a professor of regional planning and co-director of the Berkeley Roundtable on the International Economy at the University of California, said, "This is fertile ground for a crisis." He added that the faltering American economy could ill afford a major disruption.
Professor Cohen said the dispute pitted rich international companies like Wal-Mart and Toyota against some of the best-paid unionized workers in the world. West Coast longshoremen make about $80,000 a year, while foremen and more specialized equipment operators can make more than twice that, he said.
"Both sides can stake themselves to a strike, at least a brief one," Professor Cohen said. "It's the economy that can't absorb such a shock." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE CARGO HANDLING (92%); HARBORS & PORTS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STRIKES (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (87%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%) STEVEDORING; LABOR; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LOCKOUTS 

COMPANY: STEVEDORING SERVICES OF AMERICA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LONGSHORE AND WAREHOUSE UNION; PACIFIC MARITIME ASSN 

INDUSTRY: SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (57%)

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (73%) LONG BEACH (CALIF); LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



534 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: City Unemployment Remains High 

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 New York City's hard-hit economy has yet to show signs of rebounding, according to new data released yesterday by the New York State Department of Labor. 
The August unemployment rate edged down to 7.6 percent, from 7.7 percent in July, but remains far above the national average of 5.7 percent. The number of jobs in the city appears to have declined very slightly in August, but the drop was smaller than in August 2001. "The rate of decline is tapering off," said James Brown, an analyst for the labor department. New York State's unemployment rate fell to 5.8 percent, from 6.1 percent in July, but the number of private-sector jobs fell by about 2,800. Leslie Eaton (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (88%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



535 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Personal Income Tax Revenue Falls 

BYLINE:  By Stacy Albin (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 New York State collected about $8.7 billion in personal income tax between April and August, a drop of about 21 percent from the same period a year ago, the state comptroller's office reported. 
The amounts collected on 2002 tax returns and prepayments on estimated earnings for this year have declined. Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for the comptroller's office, said that unemployment had risen since last year and many of those with jobs were no longer receiving large bonuses. The comptroller's office estimated that 2002 earnings accounted for $2.3 billion, a decline of about 31 percent, and final tax returns brought $1.1 billion, a drop of about 32 percent. Stacy Albin (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%) TAXATION 

PERSON: ALBIN, STACY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



536 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Japan Court Says Company, Not Inventor, Controls Patent 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The Tokyo District Court has rejected attempts by a Japanese scientist, Shuji Nakamura, to obtain the rights to his inventions, a ruling that preserves the right of companies to control patents developed by their employees.
 Dr. Nakamura had argued that he was inadequately paid for inventing a type of blue-light-emitting diode, L.E.D., while he was a researcher for the Nichia Corporation. 
 The court, however, must still rule on Dr. Nakamura's demands for 2 billion yen ($16.4 million) in compensation. That decision may take months, but legal experts expect the courts to award Dr. Nakamura far more than the 20,000 yen ($164) he received after the patent was obtained.
"The decision will probably stop others from trying to gain control of their patents, but it may encourage them to seek more money from their employers," said Shinichiro Tanaka, a partner at Nakamura & Partners, a Tokyo law firm that specializes in patent law.
Japanese companies have been notoriously stingy when it comes to paying employees for a share of their inventions. On Japanese patent filings, the investor's name is often listed below the company's name, if at all. Most American and European companies, by contrast, often file patents on behalf of their employees and frequently pay them a percentage of the profits generated.
Dr. Nakamura, 47, who left Nichia in 1999 and now teaches at the University of California at Santa Barbara, felt he was owed more for his invention. His blue L.E.D., which he invented in 1993, is a crucial component in flat-panel displays and video billboards. Nichia has continued to file patents based on his work, which has helped the company quadruple its sales.
"Other engineers will likely fall silent and assume companies own their patents because of this ruling," Dr. Nakamura said at a news conference after the decision. "This decision and Japan's system of patents is very disappointing."
Despite the ruling, Dr. Nakamura's efforts have inspired others to challenge their companies.
And Dr. Nakamura's actions have also led Nichia to settle other suits. This week, it reached an out-of-court settlement with the Toyoda Gosei Company ending a six-year fight over rights related to the blue L.E.D.'s. The companies have been motivated to settle their case because rivals are developing alternatives to Nichia's technology. 
The threat of other lawsuits has also prompted several brand-name companies to raise their payouts to inventors. Mitsubishi Chemical assembled a $2.5 million fund. NEC, Honda Motor and Omron among others, have also raised their payouts.
The more generous payments come as companies here struggle to market their inventions. Through the 1980's, Japanese corporations filed about 20,000 patents a year, often to protect their interests overseas. But as the economy slowed in the 1990's, Japanese manufacturers cut costs by filing fewer patents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (93%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (89%); PATENT LAW (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LIGHT-EMITTING DIODES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: NICHIA CORP (94%); TOYODA GOSEI CO LTD (63%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%) NICHIA CORP 

TICKER: 7282 (TSE) (63%); HNDA (LSE) (60%); HMC (NYSE) (60%); 7267 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (63%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; NAKAMURA, SHUJI 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



537 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Dive, Nearing Lows Hit in July

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
As investors digested more disappointing news on earnings and new signs that the economic recovery could be weaker than expected, stocks tumbled yesterday to their lowest level since the overall market hit a five-year low in July.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.8 percent and is just 240 points -- or a decline just a bit larger than yesterday's -- from its four-year low of 7,702.34, reached on July 23. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3 percent and is just 46 points from its five-year low of 797.70, also reached on July 23. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.9 percent and is just more than 10 points from its five-year low of 1,206.01, reached on Aug. 5. 
 As stocks fell, bond prices rose, pushing some yields to new lows. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was at 3.78 percent in late trading, the lowest yield on a government security with a 10-year maturity since 1961, down from 3.84 percent on Wednesday. The price of the 10-year note rose 18/32 , to 10429/32 .
Stocks are threatening to break through their recent lows just ahead of Tuesday's meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers. If stocks continue to decline, many investors will be hoping for a rate cut from the Fed, although policy makers have indicated most recently that one should not be expected. Such a disappointment, even if expected, could send stocks to new lows.
The worst news for investors has probably been the parade of earnings announcements, with some companies beginning to report their third-quarter results and others confessing that their performance will not be as good as expected.
"Earnings are disappointing, but it would be too quick to assume it is across the board," said Frederick B. Taylor, chief investment officer at the United States Trust Company.
Bad news has already come this week from J. P. Morgan Chase, McDonald's, and Oracle. A disappointment from one company in a sector has not been good for its rivals, either, because their stocks have fallen as well.
Morgan Stanley, Electronic Data Systems and Knight Ridder joined the parade yesterday. Morgan Stanley reported its eighth consecutive quarterly decline in profits. Its third-quarter earnings fell 13 percent from figures in the quarter a year earlier. That report pulled Morgan Stanley's stock down $4.20, or 11 percent, to $33.90, and other brokerage stocks followed suit. Prudential Financial fell 3.7 percent and Merrill Lynch, which announced the dismissal of two top executives on Wednesday for not cooperating with the federal investigation into Enron, was off 4.5 percent.
E.D.S., which sells computer services, said that its profit in the third quarter would be 12 to 15 cents a share, down 80 percent from the company's previous forecast. Its shares plunged $19.26, or 52.8 percent, to $17.20. I.B.M., its chief rival, fell 6.8 percent.
Knight Ridder, the newspaper publisher, reduced its profit forecast to 81 cents a share from a July range of 82 to 89 cents a share because of the advertising slump. Its stock dropped $4.53, or 7.3 percent, to $57.91 a share. Other newspaper stocks fell along with it.
At the close, the Dow was down 230.06 points, to 7,942.39, its first close below 8,000 since July 23. The S.& P. 500 fell 26.14, to 843.32. That is its lowest close since 834.60 on Aug. 5 and the second lowest since the 797.70 on July 23. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 35.68 points, to 1,216.45.
The economic news yesterday may have been especially worrisome just because it came in one of the sectors of the economy -- housing -- which has been holding up well. Housing starts declined 2.2 percent last month and have now been off three consecutive months. On the other hand, 30-year mortgage rates are at 40-year lows, with the Freddie Mac average national rate at 6.05 percent in the survey released yesterday. With longer-term rates even lower since the survey was taken, mortgage rates could decline even more.
What is adding to the current difficulty for investors is that during the earnings confession season, the companies that make so-called preannouncements are usually those whose results will not meet expectations. That means that there is a period of mostly bad news before companies that will meet or exceed expectations report their earnings, beginning in October.
So it is easy, as Mr. Taylor noted, for good news to get lost. For example, FedEx reported a 45 percent jump in profits yesterday. Its stock climbed $4.96, or 11.6 percent, to $47.76. But it did not lift the overall market.
Until the second quarter, overall earnings for the companies in the S.& P. 500 index had declined for five consecutive quarters and then only inched 1.4 percent higher in the second quarter. The forecast for the third quarter, compared with the period a year earlier, is now slipping, according to Thomson First Call, falling to 8.9 percent from 11 percent just a week ago.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A trader studied the numbers at the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. (Reuters)(pg. C1); Traders watched the Dow dip yesterday to lows not seen since July 23. Poor earnings reports and worries about interest rates contributed. (Associated Press)(pg. C7) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COMPANY LOSSES (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (80%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (52%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (51%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (80%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%); PRU (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (52%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



538 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Chief Executive to Step Down at Credit Suisse Group 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER with PATRICK McGEEHAN 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Seeking to end criticism of the Credit Suisse Group over his leadership, Lukas Muhlemann said today that he would give up the role of chief executive at the end of the year. 
 The company promoted two executives to succeed Mr. Muhlemann as co-chief executives: John J. Mack, who runs Credit Suisse First Boston, the investment banking division based in New York, and Oswald J. Grubel, head of the financial services unit. 
 Mr. Mack said in an interview today that his promotion to help lead the parent company reinforced the board's commitment to the investment banking business and should quell speculation that First Boston would be sold. 
"Any time a company's had the financial results that the group has had, a good board has to look at the strategy," said Mr. Mack, who refers to Mr. Grubel as Ossie. "And The board has confirmed to Ossie and myself that they are committed to the strategy."
Mr. Muhlemann, who has held the post of chief executive since 1997 and that of chairman since 2000, has faced growing calls for his resignation in recent months, as shareholders have become disillusioned by an overly ambitious expansion strategy, evaporating profits and investigations into the company's practices of allocating shares in initial public stock offerings.
Walter B. Kielholz, the chief executive of Swiss Re, will assume the role of chairman, as of Jan. 1. Mr. Muhlemann said in July that he would give up that post in the spring.
For now, Credit Suisse is not planning any major strategic changes. The company said today that its directors had reaffirmed its "current strategy and its structure."
While welcoming the management changes, some analysts said today's announcement raised even more uncertainty about Credit Suisse's future, by setting up a potential power struggle between Mr. Mack and Mr. Grubel.
"How do they work together and collaborate?" asked Christoph Ritschard of Zurcher Kantonalbank, a Swiss bank. "They each need to look after their own divisions, both of which have problems."
Mr. Mack, 57, said that he and Mr. Grubel, 59, agreed that First Boston's investment banking and sales and trading operations could be better integrated with other parts of Credit Suisse in Switzerland. He said that he had always believed that co-chief executives can work together without the situation devolving into a struggle for power.
"You can take my name off a power-struggle list because I'm happy in New York and I love New York,' Mr. Mack said. "I'm prepared to spend more time traveling back and forth to Zurich, but I am not moving to Zurich."
Mr. Mack said he had not sought the promotion.
"I was really focused on First Boston but the board asked me to do this and the right thing to do was to say yes," he said. "I came to this job a year and a month ago because I thought it would be a big challenge and it certainly has been that. First Boston is still in a turnaround phase, both from a business and cultural sense."
Despite the promotion of Mr. Mack, some analysts expressed concern that Credit Suisse was not bringing in fresh management and relying on insiders like Mr. Kielholz, who is currently vice chairman of the Credit Suisse Group, to set the future course. Adding to those worries is Mr. Kielholz's decision to continue the day-to-day running of Swiss Re, raising questions about the amount of time he will devote to his new duties.
"It is disappointing that they are maintaining the old Swiss links, rather than bringing in new blood," Andrew Killean of Britannic Asset Management said. "The management may have changed, but it is the bigger picture that is the problem."
Paul Rimmer, a Credit Suisse spokesman, said that Mr. Kielholz planned to be an "active chairman."
Mr. Muhlemann, a former management consultant with McKinsey & Company, set about transforming the conservative Swiss banking flagship by buying Winterthur Insurance in 1997 for close to $9 billion and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, the Wall Street investment bank, in 2000 for $13 billion.
Since then, problems at both divisions have wiped out Credit Suisse's profits. The group reported a loss of $387 million in the second quarter, in contrast to a profit of $1.8 billion a year earlier.
Battered by falling stock markets, Winterthur's capital base has shrivelled, requiring Credit Suisse to invest $1.1 billion in the unit. As a result, Credit Suisse said it would cut the dividend it pays shareholders for the first time in its 146-year history.
Costs at the investment banking division, meanwhile, soared just as the stock market bubble began to burst. Mr. Mack, the former president of Morgan Stanley, was brought in to replace Allen Wheat as head of the division in July 2001. He has since slashed costs, helping the unit to return to profitability, earning $61 million in the second quarter.
Tarnishing Credit Suisse's image further, the investment bank was recently the subject of a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into how shares of hot initial public offerings were allocated to clients. In January, Credit Suisse paid $100 million to settle the case, without criminal charges having been filed. However, new disclosures about analyst practices still plague the firm. Massachusetts regulators reportedly have recommended that the New York State attorney general prosecute the firm for the activities of its research analysts.
Under pressure from these problems and the faltering economic environment, Credit Suisse shares have fallen 60 percent this year. Shares of Credit Suisse fell 6 percent today, to 30.35 euros ($29.69) in Zurich trading.
Perhaps one of the few bright spots has been the performance of Credit Suisse's private bank, part of the division overseen by Mr. Grubel. Largely as a result of Mr. Grubel's insistence, Credit Suisse took a more aggressive role in selling alternative investment products, including hedge funds and private equity investments that carry higher margins, analysts said. The strategy was in sharp contrast to that of other Swiss banks, which tended to take a more conservative approach.
"That was Mr. Grubel's innovation," Mr. Ritschard of Zurcher Kantonalbank said.
But even here, it is unclear how enduring the benefits will prove. Mr. Ritschard said he expected margins at the private bank to begin falling, as the number of alternative investments that clients are willing to buy reaches a limit.
Until recently, Mr. Muhlemann had defended his track record. He refused calls for his removal by several large shareholder groups at an annual meeting in May. Then in July, he said he would step down as chairman in the spring to focus on his duties as chief executive.
The decision to leave both positions by the end of the year was made entirely by Mr. Muhlemann and was not a result of internal pressure, Mr. Rimmer, the spokesman, said. Mr. Muhlemann submitted his resignation earlier this week at the same board meeting during which the directors reaffirmed the strategy he had put in place, Mr. Rimmer noted.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lukas Muhlemann, right, is leaving as chief executive of the Credit Suisse Group at the end of the year, to be succeeded by Oswald J. Grubel, left, and John J. Mack, on large screen at rear, as co-chiefs. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); STOCK OFFERINGS (66%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (98%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (98%); CS (NYSE) (98%); SREN (SWX) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (67%) SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS; SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (90%) KAPNER, SUZANNE; MCGEEHAN, PATRICK; MUHLEMANN, LUKAS; MACK, JOHN J; GRUBEL, OSWALD J 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (69%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



539 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 431 words

PERSON: Raul Chibas 

HEADLINE: Raul Chibas, 86, Castro Ally Who Fled to Miami in Motorboat 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Raul Chibas, a former close associate of Fidel Castro who defected to Florida in an outboard motorboat in 1960 in order, he said, to "make it known to the Cuban people that I did not like what their government is doing," died on Aug. 25 in a Miami hospital. He was 86 and lived in Miami.
 He was a Cuban Army major when he defected 19 months after Castro took power in 1959, and three years after he joined Castro and another Castro supporter, the economist Felipe Pazos, in co-signing an important revolutionary manifesto. 
 The future defector at one time directed a military academy and was an ardent opponent of Cuba's ruling dictator, Fulgencio Batista, in 1957, when he signed the manifesto, which was mostly written by Castro.
It urged Cubans to create an anti-Batista front to end "the regime of force" and said the rebel movement was doing battle "for the fine ideal of a Cuba free, democratic and just."
Mr. Chibas was with the Castro troops in eastern Cuba in the summer of 1957. He was also treasurer of the Castro revolt, railroad commissioner in Castro's government and a judge at trials at Castro's request. 
But soon after defecting, along with his wife, he said in an interview that Castro had betrayed the original principles of his revolution. 
"Castro accuses anyone opposed to him of being a counterrevolutionist," Mr. Chibas said, but "the people in Cuba who believe in democracy are the real revolutionists."
He said that numerous technicians from Soviet-bloc nations were in Cuba and "free to move where they want and do what they like," and that "the Red indoctrination is everywhere."
After coming to the United States, he became an outspoken but unsuccessful advocate of ousting Castro from power. In 1960 he was one of a group of former top Castro aides who made public in New York City a 3,500-word manifesto calling for his overthrow.
Mr. Chibas's brother Eduardo, a Cuban politician who founded the Ortodoxo party, denounced corrupt government officials and has been called the idol of Castro's youth. 
Born on April 25, 1916, in Santiago de Cuba, Raul Chibas grew up in Havana and studied at the University of Havana.
After defecting, he lived for two decades in the United States, where his work included teaching Spanish at a school on Long Island. Then he spent a decade in Caracas, where two of his children lived. He came to Miami in 1991.
He is survived by his wife, Maria Luisa Bonafonte de Chibas; three daughters, Gloria Chibas of Miami, Marissa Chibas of Los Angeles and Diana Chibas of Pembroke Pines, Fla.; and a son, Eduardo Chibas, of Caracas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CORRUPTION (64%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

FIDEL CASTRO (93%) CHIBAS, RAUL; PACE, ERIC; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) CUBA

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



540 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Inspections With Teeth 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq 

 BODY:
If there's a new conciliatory mood here in Baghdad, it's even better hidden than Iraq's Scud missiles.
 The first thing a visitor sees after arriving at Saddam International Airport is a set of angry slogans in both English and Arabic declaring "Down USA" and "Down With America." 
 Then after a spin down a lovely airport highway, it was time to step into the Al-Rasheed Hotel -- with its floor mosaic of the first President Bush scowling satanically at arriving guests. You have to step on his face to enter the hotel. 
"If the U.S. bombs Baghdad again," my taxi driver mused, "maybe they'll add a picture of the younger Bush as well."
So while it's nice that weapons inspectors may return, there's not much sign of a change of heart in Baghdad. President Bush is right to be exceptionally skeptical of Saddam's intentions.
Yet even so, the administration is too dismissive of inspections. The present structure is unworkable, but it just may be possible to put teeth in the inspections so that they really are meaningful, so that they could avert a war. Saddam's paramount aim is to survive, and if faced with tough "comply or die" inspections, he might choose his life over his Scuds. Certainly Iraq is jittery about an invasion.
"So you're an American?" an immigration official asked me in surprise when he saw my passport. He called me over, and I thought he was going to grill me about my visa (which took seven months of cajolery).
"Is there going to be war?" he asked worriedly.
At customs, as officials were confiscating my mobile phones, which are banned in Iraq, they were much less interested in the phones themselves than in whether I would pay a bribe and whether there would be an invasion. And the talk quickly turned to war, since they acknowledged that nothing could rescue my mini-satellite phone, which the authorities worry about because spies could use them to call in air strikes.
"He would have my throat cut if you were found with it," explained one official, pointing to a poster of Saddam, "and you would be executed, too." (That dampened my own interest in holding on to the telephone.)
Rigorous inspections are worth a try, because Saddam is a shrewd survivor. Indeed, it's a tribute to his survival talent that he's outmaneuvered the U.N. and rebuilt Iraq since the gulf war -- and that many Iraqis seem to blame Americans for a decade of sanctions and suffering, rather than him. In any case, there is no longer any sign of war damage, and the bazaars are bustling with Pepsi, Tom-and-Jerry school bags, Barbie coloring books, and 50-cent pirated videodiscs for movies like "Unfaithful," "Rush Hour" and "Snow Dogs."
The booming economy (the C.I.A. says the Iraq economy grew 15 percent in 2000) reflects smuggling, illegal oil surcharges and the eclipse of effective sanctions. Indeed, I came in from Damascus on a sanctions-busting flight, which shouldn't exist under the U.N. rules. But it was a Boeing 747, and every seat was full. That's not to say it was smooth: the plane had started down the runway when the crew realized that they had forgotten to close one door. They stopped, closed the door, and then we all chanted "Allahu Akbar" three times and took off.
The only hope to avert war is inspections that are completely restructured and greatly empowered. One of the best ideas comes from Corey Hinderstein and David Albright of the Institute for Science and International Security: they suggest that Iraqi weapons scientists and their entire families could be taken out of Iraq and interviewed where they would be beyond retaliation.
The earlier U.N. inspections have been justly criticized, but for all their weaknesses they did manage to destroy "far more of Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction" than the gulf war itself did, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace reported in March. Really tough and aggressive inspections could do even better and just might be able to neutralize Iraq without a war.
Unfortunately, the mood here in Baghdad seems not just defiant but also rather unreal. This turns out to be Iraqi Tourism Week, and so travel agents from many countries are trampling over President Bush's face at the Al-Rasheed Hotel. One official noticed my incredulity about the tourism conference and explained, "This was planned long ago." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); TERRORISM (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); BRIBERY (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



541 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: The Vision Thing 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
This is the way the recovery ends -- not with a bang but with a whimper.
 O.K., I could be wrong. Industrial production is falling and layoffs are rising. But it's still not a sure thing that the months ahead will be bad enough for the business-cycle referees to declare a renewed recession. And on the other hand, the administration seems determined to have a bang sometime before Nov. 5. 
 But right now it looks as if the economy is stalling, and also as if the people in charge have no idea what to do. In short, it's feeling a lot like the early 1990's.
It doesn't really matter whether you call what's going on right now a slow recovery or a recession. Most people don't care whether G.D.P. growth is slightly above or below zero; what matters to them is whether they can find jobs and keep them. And the job situation is increasingly dismal. A 5.7 percent unemployment rate doesn't sound that bad, but an unusually large number of workers have given up searching for jobs. The overall unemployment rate also doesn't reflect the rapidly growing number of people who are truly desperate, because they have been out of work for six months or more. And the employment situation has lately taken a significant turn for the worse: the number of people filing new claims for unemployment insurance, a leading indicator of future unemployment, has increased sharply over the past month.
At best, then, this is a recovery that, as far as workers are concerned, might as well be a continuing recession. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities points out that in terms of job losses and long-term unemployment, the current slowdown is already a match for the nasty recession of the early 1990's.
So this really is like the early 1990's all over again. The economic similarity between our current difficulties and the slump under the first George Bush is stronger than most people realize. In 1990, as in 2001, the economy went into a recession in part because of past excesses -- though those quaint old scandals involving junk bonds and real estate speculation seem very tame in the age of Enron and Tyco. In the early 1990's, as today, recession was followed by a "jobless recovery," in which G.D.P. grew but employment didn't. And then as now there was concern that interest rate cuts by the Fed might not be enough to turn the economy around -- though back then we didn't yet have the example of Japan to show that the "liquidity trap," in which even a zero interest rate isn't enough to produce an economic recovery, was a real possibility in the modern world.
But the most striking similarity between now and a decade ago, it seems to me, is political. For all the differences between the moderate father and the deeply conservative son, now as then we have an administration whose key figures are fundamentally uninterested in and uncomfortable with economic policy.
That statement may strike you as strange: wasn't the tax cut George W. Bush's central achievement before Osama bin Laden came along? But the tax cut was never intended as an economic policy: it was a political gesture designed to ward off a challenge from Steve Forbes and satisfy the conservative base. Only later did the administration make the providential discovery that it was also just the thing to fight recession, promote family values and cure the common cold.
And it can't seem to come up with anything else, now that the tax cut that wasn't designed to fight a recession has, sure enough, failed to fight a recession. When Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill was asked for new ideas that came out of the comical Waco summit, his answer was -- are you ready? -- making the tax cut permanent.
Should we be worried about the administration's lack of the vision thing when it comes to economics? Yes, we should. The excesses of the 1990's dwarfed those of the 1980's, and the economic risks are correspondingly larger. Suppose that, as seems increasingly plausible, the deteriorating job situation finally undermines the dogged optimism of America's consumers. In that case we'll need some decisive action -- action determined by what the economy needs, not by what Karl Rove thinks will play in the polls. How much chance is there that we'll get it? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (59%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT; PRODUCTION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



542 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Delay Plan for New Tax Cuts 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Republican leaders in the House have decided against pushing for a new round of tax cuts to help investors, effectively killing for this year a proposal floated last month by President Bush, Congressional aides said today.
 Judging that there is not enough time or political support to pass additional tax cuts before Congress goes home to campaign next month, Republican leaders have decided to shelve the idea for now and revisit it next year, the aides said. 
 The decision appeared to have been made in consultation with the White House, which had signaled in recent days that Mr. Bush was no longer intent on following through on the proposal. Mr. Bush said last month that he was developing plans to address the weak stock market and help investors through measures that might include cutting taxes on dividends, increasing the deductibility of capital losses and allowing workers to contribute more money to their 401(k) retirement plans. 
From the start, both the administration and Republican leaders in Congress had acknowledged that there was little chance of the proposals getting through the Democratic-controlled Senate and being signed into law this year. But they had seen the plan as an opportunity to address concern about the markets and the economy heading into Election Day and to keep Democrats on the defensive over tax cuts.
The danger for Congressional Republicans now is that they are leaving the playing field on economic policy open for Democrats. Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader, plans to push hard for the Senate to pass legislation in coming weeks to address 401(k) plans. In an interview last week, Mr. Daschle said he was considering pushing several other initiatives, including an increase in the minimum wage.
Senate Democrats are still working on their legislation, which would give workers more latitude to diversify their 401(k) plan holdings out of company stock and limit the ability of executives to sell company stock during periods in which workers cannot. But the provisions fall short of what consumer advocates have been seeking.
Democrats are hopeful that the debate over the bill will give them an opportunity to focus public attention on the weak economy, the fall in the stock market and the corporate scandals of the last year, all of which they are counting on to help them on Election Day.
So far, Democrats have had little success shifting the focus back to the economy from the possibility of war with Iraq. But some Republicans said their party would be making a mistake to drop the issue of tax cuts.
Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority whip, is continuing to press for consideration of a smaller package of tax cuts than the ones the White House had been studying. Mr. DeLay has been backing a proposal that would include a small increase in the deductibility of capital losses and allow retiring workers to delay cashing in their 401(k)'s if the market is depressed when they leave the work force. His plan also includes a provision to expand the government's ability to seek the return of ill-gotten gains from corporate executives and return them to shareholders.
But Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has been skeptical about the chances of getting any tax legislation enacted so close to Election Day.
The White House and some Republicans in Congress have also been concerned that pushing for any tax cut would leave their party exposed to criticism from Democrats of further increasing the federal budget deficit and favoring wealthy investors over lower-income people. 
Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, said on Wednesday that Mr. Bush had been trying to develop a plan that would be economically effective, politically feasible and fiscally responsible, but had not yet found one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (62%); SCANDALS (50%) TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TOM DASCHLE (75%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



543 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: In Arizona, a Race Fueled by Fiscal Fumes 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
One recent governor of Arizona was impeached after campaign finance irregularities; another was forced to resign after a fraud conviction. The current office holder, whose term ends in January, is leaving behind a $400 million budget deficit that could grow to $1 billion by the time her successor is sworn in.
 In chronological order, they are Evan Mecham, ousted in 1988; Fife Symington, gone in 1997, and Jane Dee Hull -- a trio of leaders whose experiences might inspire the question, Why would anyone want to run for governor, let alone win the election? 
 Someone will prevail on Nov. 5, most likely Matt Salmon, a former Republican congressman, or Janet Napolitano, the state attorney general, a Democrat. They are the favorites in a close race that includes a Libertarian and an independent. To the victor goes the spoilage. 
Years of tax cutting, unbridled spending and steady population growth, then a national recession, have left Arizona running on fiscal fumes. The situation is so serious that Governor Hull, who is barred by state law from seeking a third term, supported a sales tax increase two years ago passed by voter initiative -- and she is a Republican.
As the leading candidates, Mr. Salmon and Ms. Napolitano are campaigning on themes of urgently needed change. They differ, of course, on how they frame it.
Mr. Salmon, who is now a lobbyist, made a name for himself in Washington by attacking Newt Gingrich, then speaker of the House, as abandoning conservative positions. He bears a burden, of sorts, as a member of the party that has run Arizona for most of the last 15 years. He speaks little of Ms. Hull and is selling himself as a candidate who wants to "redefine state government," as he said in an interview this week.
"There's an opportunity here for us," Mr. Salmon said, as if his "us" was different from Ms. Hull's. In fact, at least one senior campaign aide is a close adviser to Ms. Hull. "We have an opportunity to rebuild a state, creating one that is more efficient, more compassionate," he said.
Ms. Napolitano would become the first Democratic governor since Bruce Babbitt served two terms through 1984 and Rose Mofford, the secretary of state, was appointed to finish Mr. Mecham's term. That makes the campaign pitch easy for Ms. Napolitano, who cited the financial straits under Republican governors and, for the most part, a Republican-led legislature.
"The mess was created by 12 years of failed leadership," she said. "It's time for a change, and it's going to hurt."
Arizona is one of 36 states electing a governor in November and one of 20 with an open seat -- but it has not gained the kind of national attention generated by warring candidates (see California) or malfunctioning voting systems (see Florida).
Still, as one of the nation's fastest-growing states, Arizona has not escaped the notice of both parties at the highest levels.
Mr. Salmon is expecting a visit soon from President Bush. Former President Bill Clinton has scheduled an appearance in Tucson for Arizona Democrats. Presidential appearances reflect the unexpectedly competitive nature of the race, especially for Republicans in a year they are already facing the likely loss of a half-dozen other governor's seats.
Both parties are expected to contribute generously to this race, vital in a state where new election laws allow candidates to finance their campaigns with public money only. Ms. Napolitano has chosen to do so. Mr. Salmon has not. That means the state matches whatever Mr. Salmon raises privately beyond prescribed levels of public contribution for the other candidates. Ms. Napolitano, who got $614,000 for winning the party primary last week, said she was absolutely delighted that President Bush was coming to Arizona, with expectations that he would raise $1 million for Mr. Salmon.
As a Republican, Mr. Salmon has advantages in Arizona, Ms. Hull's record notwithstanding. His party has a slight edge, about 6 percent, over the Democrats in voter registration, and it showed in the party primaries. He won with 56 percent for the Republican vote, and Ms. Napolitano won with 57 percent of the Democratic vote, but 86,000 more Republicans voted than Democrats.
One reason for higher Republican turnout is Mr. Salmon's enormous popularity with the activist right wing of his party. A churchgoing Mormon and married father of four, Mr. Salmon, 44, often invokes family and religious themes in his campaign messages, emphasizing the need for prayer in times of trouble, and that plays well with social conservatives.
Ms. Napolitano, 44, a centrist Democrat, has not made a campaign issue of her religion (Methodist) or her marital status (single).
Mr. Salmon could be helped, too, by the independent in the race, Dick Mahoney, a former secretary of state who was once a Democrat. Mr. Mahoney has criticized both major-party candidates as "allergic" to making deep cuts needed to balance the budget, and says he will siphon off enough disenchanted voters from both parties to win.
That is unlikely, but his voice adds to the mounting concern over the deficit, pushing candidates to lay out detailed proposals to deal with it.
Mr. Salmon said that "as a bottom-line guy" he would balance the budget through spending cuts, promising not to raise taxes. Ms. Napolitano said she would cut spending and generate revenues by closing some of the 120 tax loopholes the Legislature created to stimulate the economy in recent years.
Experts like Dennis Hoffman, a professor of economics at Arizona State University, said reduced spending would not necessarily produce a balanced budget unless public education programs were also slashed, a tough sell in a state that has the highest high school dropout rate in the country.
"They can work around the edges," Dr. Hoffman said, invoking the father of fiscal conservatism, a native son. "But this is the land of Barry Goldwater. How much excess fat can there be?"
Such questions await the winner. Asked how long the post-election honeymoon might last, Ms. Napolitano only laughed. To the same question, Mr. Salmon shook his head. "Fifteen minutes," he said. "If that long."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Janet Napolitano, the Democratic candidate for governor of Arizona, meeting on Wednesday with firefighters.; Matt Salmon, left, a former Congressman and the Republican candidate, on Wednesday with his deputy press secretary, Andy Chasin. (Photographs by Jason Wise for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IMPEACHMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); SALES TAX (77%); POLITICS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LOBBYING (74%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: MATT SALMON (92%); JANET NAPOLITANO (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; SALMON, MATT; NAPOLITANO, JANET (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) ARIZONA

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



544 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Bush-Hitler Remark Shows U.S. as Issue In German Election 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
A reported remark by a German minister comparing President Bush's tactics over Iraq to those of Hitler envenomed a close-fought German election today and demonstrated how anti-Americanism had moved to the center of political debate here.
 The regional newspaper Schwabisches Tagblatt said today that Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's justice minister, Herta Daubler-Gmelin, had said: "Bush wants to divert attention from his domestic problems. It's a classic tactic. It's one that Hitler also used." 
 Her remarks were reportedly made on Sunday during a conversation with representatives of the trade union IG Metall. 
In a statement to the newspaper, Ms. Daubler-Gmelin, 59 and a member of the chancellor's Social Democratic Party, denied comparing the two men, but did not deny comparing their tactics. "I didn't compare the persons Bush and Hitler, but their methods," she said.
Later tonight, she told ZDF television, "I just did not say that; it is as simple as that."
Mr. Schroder said tonight that he believed Ms. Daubler-Gmelin when she said she had not compared the two men. He added that anyone who compared Mr. Bush to a criminal would have no seat in his cabinet. He did not elaborate.
In Washington, Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, was asked at a news briefing about the minister's comments and the effect of such election campaign statements on the German-American relationship. After speaking of the importance of the long relationship, he added, "But this statement by the justice minister is outrageous, and it is inexplicable." 
Germany's conservatives, who are challenging Mr. Schroder in national elections on Sunday, immediately called for her resignation.
Friedbert Pfluger, a Christian Democrat, called Ms. Daubler-Gmelin's statements outrageous and said, "This is what happens when the government allows the moral coordinates to deteriorate so far."
He was referring to Mr. Schroder's decision to distance Germany from the United States over Iraq, a course that has proved politically rewarding even as it has opened a sharp rift with Washington.
Mr. Schroder has said Germany will not take part in any attack on Iraq, whatever the United Nations decides. His stand has appealed to broad stretches of a postwar German population bred to abhor war, but it has also brought charges of "German unilateralism" and estrangement from its principal allies in the United States and Europe.
With voting on Sunday in a very tight election, the debate over how much damage Mr. Schroder may have done to Germany's relations with its partners, in particular with the United States, has become ever more passionate and shrill.
The chancellor has clawed back to a slight lead over his conservative rival, Edmund Stoiber, in large part by running against the Bush administration and its plans for war and "regime change" in Iraq.
Mr. Schroder says that under him, Germany will neither help in any war against Iraq nor help pay for one. Pollsters now say Iraq -- not the weak German economy -- has become the most important issue for those still deciding how they will vote.
Is this shift a reflection of a significantly changed Germany, no longer beholden to its conqueror and liberator from across the sea? Or of a chancellor in trouble using a delicate issue to try to squeak by? Or of a Bush administration that is failing to bring along its own allies? Or of a true friend to America, as Mr. Schroder insists he remains, who is simply speaking truth to power, as a real friend should?
Mr. Pfluger, a lifelong devotee of close German-American ties, is beside himself.
"This is a disaster," he said. "In a matter of weeks, Schroder was able to deprive Germany of its reputation of dependability which was developed over many years, from Willy Brandt to Helmut Kohl."
As for Germany's position in the European Union, some outside experts say they believe that Mr. Schroder has also done harm by casting doubt on Germany's reliability at the "inner circle" of European nations along with France and Britain.
William Drozdiak, the executive director of the Transatlantic Center, a Brussels-based study center of the German Marshall Fund, said Mr. Schroder was "definitely causing harm, especially to relations with France, Britain and the United States." 
The chancellor received some comradely political support today from the British prime minister, Tony Blair, who told the newspaper Tagesspiegel: "Schroder has set out his position on Iraq, and we respect that. I certainly have never seen Germany isolated in key issues in the past. On Iraq, Germany is raising questions which it does make sense to ask. There may well be differences of opinion, but I have no doubt that we will ultimately all work closely together."
But the publisher of Tagesspiegel, Hellmuth Karasek, blasted Mr. Schroder for electoral cynicism, "German unilateralism" and "cheap anti-Americanism" in words that echoed through the German policy elite.
There are signs that Mr. Schroder is already trying to patch things up with Washington. His foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, a member of the Green Party, met briefly with Mr. Bush at the United Nations and reportedly tried to reassure the president that Germany remained a close friend.
Officials say Germany quickly ceded jurisdiction over the captured Yemeni Ramzi bin al-Shibh to the United States to show its continuing commitment to the war against Al Qaeda, despite differences over Iraq. Mr. bin al-Shibh, who lived in Hamburg, was also wanted in Germany in relation to the Sept. 11 attacks.
German officials say the country is now more likely to take over command of the international security force in Kabul from Turkey early next year to show solidarity with the United States.
But in such a close election, even Mr. Stoiber has been loath to praise Mr. Bush's plans for Iraq and sound like a warmonger. Today, he said he would deny Washington use of German bases for a unilateral attack on Iraq. "Certainly never if the Americans go it alone," he said.
He followed Mr. Schroder in saying, "Now the aim is to destroy weapons of mass destruction, not the toppling of a dictator."
Mr. Stoiber has, however, firmly supported the need for the United Nations Security Council to defend its resolutions and provide a mandate for any military action -- but only if the goal of unconditional arms inspections fails.
If the Security Council votes to allow military force, he said, "I believe it is impossible that Germany would stand alone and refuse to accept a U.N. mandate."
In essence, his stance is like that of the French president, Jacques Chirac, a fellow conservative who has awarded Mr. Stoiber a decoration for his services to France.
Germany's longstanding desire to be a postwar force for peace is part of the legacy of the Nazi period and the American occupation. The use of the German military in any action without a United Nations mandate is constitutionally forbidden.
It has been Mr. Schroder and Mr. Fischer who have pushed Germans to take up a larger international role, including taking part in the Kosovo war and the use of German special forces in Afghanistan. Mr. Schroder emphasizes that Germany has nearly 10,000 troops abroad, almost exclusively in peacekeeping duties.
Now the chancellor has undermined that extension of Germany's military role, American officials say, while personally offending Mr. Bush.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder yesterday at a rally of his Social Democratic Party in Lemgo. The national election on Sunday between the chancellor's coalition and the conservatives is expected to be close. (Agence France-Presse); Edmund Stoiber, Mr. Schroder's conservative challenger, was shown on a giant video screen yesterday as he addressed a rally in Schwerin. (Reuters); Justice Minister Herta Daubler-Gmelin reportedly compared President Bush's tactics to Hitler's. (Associated Press)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); RESIGNATIONS (50%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GERHARD SCHRODER (90%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); DAUBLER-GMELIN, HERTA (MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HITLER, ADOLF (1889-1945); FLEISCHER, ARI 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%) GERMANY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



545 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES; 
In Saddam Hussein's Words: It's for Oil

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a letter to the United Nations General Assembly from President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, as presented orally yesterday and recorded by The New York Times:
 . . . It is a good sign that the United States has resorted, for the first time after the end of the cold war, to the General Assembly to put forward one of its problems, after years of disregard to the weight, effect and opinion of others. . . . 
 Nevertheless, the U.S. president revealed his basic purpose when he jumped to the issue of Iraq. . . . He portrayed this issue as if it were the most dangerous situation, not only for the life, security and future of the United States, but for the life, future and security of the whole world. 
Among his generalizations, which implied deliberate insinuations, he presented the utmost distoritions on the nuclear, biological and chemical threats, so as to make American citizens believe the deliberate insinuation that Iraq was linked to the American people's tragedy of Sept. 11. . . . The U.S. president talked about the importance of applying democracy by the government of Iraq. He pretended to care for the people of Iraq, after he and other presidents before him have killed by the use of weapons, including depleted uranium, and by the blockade, which is now more than 12 years old, more than 1.7 million innocent Iraqis, out of a population of 25 million citizens. . . . 
Now that Iraq has accepted the return of the U.N. inspectors, we will all be able to see how they work. In our past experience (1991-1998) with them, Iraq used to ask the inspection teams to do their job in accordance with the declared goals of the Security Council, but some of the inspectors went on doing intelligence and espionage work that had nothing to do with the official mandate of the inspection teams. Some of those inspectors have publicly admitted this; some, including an American, are still publicly talking about it. . . . 
In targeting Iraq, the United States administration is acting on behalf of Zionism, which has been killing the heroic people of Palestine, destroying their property, murdering their children and seeking to impose their domination on the whole world, not only militarily, but also economically and politically.
The U.S. administration wants to destroy Iraq in order to control the Middle East oil, and consequently control the politics as well as the oil and economic policies of the whole world. If it succeeded in that, God forbid, it would dictate on you what each country needs for its economic development, what quantities of oil it is allowed to buy, and at what prices, along with other conditions. . . . 
Iraq has not rejected relevant resolutions of the Security Council, even though what relates to Iraq in them is unjust and at odds with the U.N. Charter and international law. 
Iraq, rather, calls on members of the Security Council, and on the U.S. administration in particular, to respect their own obligations under the Charter, international law and the relevant Security Council resolutions. . . .
I hereby declare before you that Iraq is clear of all nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. If there are any one amongst you who might still worry that the fabrications announced by American officials about Iraq may possibly be true, our country is ready to receive any scientific experts accompanied by politicians you choose to represent any one of your countries to tell us which places and scientific and industrial installations they would wish to see, particularly those about which the American officials have been fabricating false stories. . . . 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); POLITICS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); ESPIONAGE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); TERRORISM (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%) HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%) IRAQ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); ISRAEL; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



546 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES; 
From the Document: A Stress on Disrupting Terrorism

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's outline of "The National Security Strategy of the United States." The full text is online at nytimes.com.
 The great struggles of the 20th century between liberty and totalitarianism ended with a decisive victory for the forces of freedom and a single sustainable model for national success: freedom, democracy and free enterprise. In the 21st century, only nations that share a commitment to protecting basic human rights and guaranteeing political and economic freedom will be able to unleash the potential of their people and assure their future prosperity. People everywhere want to say what they think, choose who will govern them, worship as they please, educate their children -- male and female, own property and enjoy the benefits of their labor. These values of freedom are right and true for every person, in every society -- and the duty of protecting these values against their enemies is the common calling of freedom-loving people across the globe. . . . 
 The events of Sept. 11, 2001, taught us that weak states like Afghanistan can pose as great a danger to our national interests as strong states. Poverty does not make poor people into terrorists and murderers. Yet poverty, weak institutions and corruption can make weak states vulnerable to terrorist networks and drug cartels within their borders.

I. OVERVIEW OF AMERICA'S INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY
We will: 

* Speak out honestly about violations of the nonnegotiable demands of human dignity using our voice and vote in international institutions to advance freedom;
* use our foreign aid to promote freedom and support those who struggle nonviolently for it, ensuring that nations moving toward democracy are rewarded for the steps they take;
* take special efforts to promote freedom of religion and conscience and defend it from encroachment by repressive governments. . . .

II. STRENGTHEN ALLIANCES TO DEFEAT GLOBAL TERRORISM AND WORK TO PREVENT ATTACKS AGAINST US AND OUR FRIENDS
. . . Our priority will be first to disrupt and destroy terrorist organizations of global reach and attack their leadership; command, control, and communications; material support; and finances. This will have a disabling effect upon the terrorists' ability to plan and operate.
We will disrupt and destroy terrorist organizations by:

* direct and continuous action using all the elements of national and international power. Our immediate focus will be those terrorist organizations of global reach and any terrorist or state sponsor of terrorism which attempts to gain or use weapons of mass destruction (W.M.D.) or their precursors;
* defending the United States, the American people and our interests at home and abroad by identifying and destroying the threat before it reaches our borders. While the United States will constantly strive to enlist the support of the international community, we will not hesitate to act alone, if necessary, to exercise our right of self-defense by acting pre-emptively; . . . and
* denying further sponsorship, support and sanctuary to terrorists by convincing or compelling states to accept their sovereign responsibilities.
We will also wage a war of ideas to win the battle against international terrorism. This includes:

* using the full influence of the United States, and working closely with allies and friends, to make clear that all acts of terrorism are illegitimate so that terrorism will be viewed in the same light as slavery, piracy, or genocide: behavior that no respectable government can condone or support and all must oppose;
* supporting moderate and modern government, especially in the Muslim world, to ensure that the conditions and ideologies that promote terrorism do not find fertile ground in any nation; . . .

V. PREVENT OUR ENEMIES FROM THREATENING US, OUR ALLIES AND OUR FRIENDS WITH WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION
. . . Our comprehensive strategy to combat W.M.D. includes:

* Proactive counterproliferation efforts. We must deter and defend against the threat before it is unleashed. . . . Given the goals of rogue states and terrorists, the United States can no longer solely rely on a reactive posture as we have in the past. The inability to deter a potential attacker, the immediacy of today's threats, and the magnitude of potential harm that could be caused by our adversaries' choice of weapons, do not permit that option. . . .

VI. IGNITE A NEW ERA OF GLOBAL ECONOMIC GROWTH THROUGH FREE MARKETS AND FREE TRADE
. . . We will use our economic engagement with other countries to underscore the benefits of policies that generate higher productivity and sustained economic growth, including:

* pro-growth legal and regulatory policies to encourage business investment, innovation and entrepreneurial activity;
* tax policies, particularly lower marginal tax rates, that improve incentives for work and investment;
* rule of law and intolerance of corruption so that people are confident that they will be able to enjoy the fruits of their economic endeavors. . . .
Beyond market access, the most important area where trade intersects with poverty is in public health. We will ensure that the W.T.O. intellectual property rules are flexible enough to allow developing nations to gain access to critical medicines for extraordinary dangers like H.I.V./AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.

VII. EXPAND THE CIRCLE OF DEVELOPMENT BY OPENING SOCIETIES AND BUILDING
THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF DEMOCRACY
A world where some live in comfort and plenty, while half of the human race lives on less than $2 a day, is neither just nor stable. Including all of the world's poor in an expanding circle of development and opportunity is a moral imperative and one of the top priorities of U.S. international policy. . . .
The United States Government will . . . provide resources to aid countries that have met the challenge of national reform. We propose a 50 percent increase in the core development assistance given by the United States. . . .

IX. TRANSFORM AMERICA'S NATIONAL SECURITY INSTITUTIONS TO MEET THE CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES OF THE 21ST CENTURY:
. . . The United States must and will maintain the capability to defeat any attempt by an enemy -- whether a state or nonstate actor -- to impose its will on the United States, our allies, or our friends. We will maintain the forces sufficient to support our obligations, and to defend freedom. Our forces will be strong enough to dissuade potential adversaries from pursuing a military buildup in hopes of surpassing, or equaling, the power of the United States. . . .
Ultimately, the foundation of American strength is at home. It is in the skills of our people, the dynamism of our economy and the resilience of our institutions. A diverse, modern society has inherent, ambitious, entrepreneurial energy. Our strength comes from what we do with that energy. That is where our national security begins. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (87%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); CHILDREN (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); RELIGION (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (66%); CARTELS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



547 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Goes on the Attack in Ads, but McCall Is Unfazed 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki yesterday released his first negative television commercials in his re-election campaign, a sign of the heightening rancor and increasing competitiveness in a general election race only 10 days old. 
 Aides to Mr. Pataki, a Republican seeking his third term, explained the ads as necessary to "set the record straight" on H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller and Democratic nominee for governor, and what they consider his bungling of an upstate economic development program and penchant for taxes. 
 But Mr. McCall hardly seemed stung by the ads at a campaign appearance and exulted that the commercials were a sign that his candidacy has made Mr. Pataki nervous despite the governor's large lead in the polls and war chest with nearly 10 times as much campaign money.
"When do you go negative?" Mr. McCall said, addressing supporters at a rally in New York City to criticize the governor on education. "When you are scared, right? The governor's going negative, attacking me, attempting to distort my record. That just shows that we've got a pretty formidable force here and the governor ought to be frightened."
Mr. Pataki's advisers countered that their private polls showed Mr. Pataki's lead increasing, and they presented the ads as an opportunity to fill in the blanks about a candidate whom they feel voters may like but do not know much about.
Some political consultants not working on this race said their private polls showed as many as one-third of voters did not know who Mr. McCall is or have an opinion of him.
"The ads are pretty straightforward," said Kieran Mahoney, Mr. Pataki's strategist. "Carl McCall has a record on issues important to the electorate and that record is largely unknown to the electorate."
Political analysts suggested that while such ads are typically broadcast by candidates trailing in a race, they also make tactical sense for front-runners seeking to keep challengers from building momentum. 
Mr. McCall is trying to do just that, enjoying good press in the afterglow of a primary in which his opponent quit before any ballots were cast and enlisting Bill Clinton and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as supporters and fund-raisers. In addition, Mr. Pataki unexpectedly trails in the Independence Party primary against Tom Golisano, who is 635 votes ahead as state election officials continue to count ballots.
Mr. Pataki has refused to sign on for one-on-one or three-way debates and spent yesterday out of the public view raising money. 
Altogether, analysts said, the ads are Mr. Pataki's response to a race that is now more competitive than he had expected.
"I think they are common sense politics in a competitive election," said Norman Adler, a veteran consultant who has advised Democrats and Republicans.
"His original intent was to run a front-porch campaign where a reporter says, 'What do you think?' and he smiles," he said. "Then the Independence thing went the wrong way and they felt the race tightening up and they thought, 'Maybe we ought to have a campaign.' "
The ads, which will run in various markets, also demonstrate the importance of upstate New York, where Democrats have done well in the past couple of statewide campaigns, and the New York City suburbs, where two once-solid Republican bastions, Westchester and Nassau Counties, have tilted Democratic lately.
One ad running only on suburban cable stations criticizes Mr. McCall for saying in an interview last year that the commuter tax should be reinstated. The Legislature and Mr. Pataki repealed the levy, which had been imposed on people who live outside New York City but work in it, in 1999.
Another ad, running in Buffalo, faults Mr. McCall for investing more money out of state than within as part of an economic development project run by his comptroller's office. 
The ad cites published reports that say only $115 million of a $250 million venture capital investment fund has been committed to fund managers, and only $14 million directly invested in companies. The Buffalo News reported that almost $3 million of the $14 million went to companies with operations outside New York.
Mr. McCall's aides have said a go-slow approach makes sense when investing pension dollars. They also said Mr. McCall had invested more in western New York companies than his predecessors.
Mr. Pataki also released ads for Rochester, Syracuse and Albany promoting his job creation record, but there is no such message for Buffalo, which is considered in worse economic shape than those cities.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about Gov. George E. Pataki's campaign advertising referred incorrectly to one commercial in a series about his job creation record in various upstate cities. Such an ad tailored to Buffalo was indeed released.

GRAPHIC: Photo: H. Carl McCall, the Democratic nominee for governor, appearing yesterday at City Hall in New York City. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (56%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICAL ADVERTISING 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%) ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



548 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: BAGHDAD; 
Hussein, in a Letter to General Assembly, Says Bush Wants to Control Mideast Oil

BYLINE:  By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
President Saddam Hussein of Iraq accused the Bush administration today of seeking to "destroy Iraq in order to control the Middle East oil" and asserted that Mr. Bush had made "distortions" to lead Americans to think Iraq had a role in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 Mr. Hussein's comments came in a letter to the General Assembly, excerpts of which were read there today by his foreign minister, Naji Sabri. The Iraqi leader assailed the administration as broadly as Mr. Bush criticized Iraq in the same hall on Sept. 12. Mr. Hussein accused Washington of "making up problems" with Baghdad to promote the interests of Israel, which he called "the Zionist entity." 
 Mr. Hussein declared that Iraq is "clear of all nuclear, chemical and biological weapons." But he made no pledges to cooperate with United Nations arms inspectors who are preparing to return to Iraq after a nearly four-year hiatus. Expressing skepticism about their impartiality, the Iraqi leader said only, "along with you, we are waiting to see."
That wait should take about a month. Hans Blix, the Swedish arms expert who heads the United Nations chemical and biological weapons team based in New York, said in a press briefing this afternoon that he expected an advance team of inspectors to arrive in Iraq on Oct. 15.
Mr. Hussein's comments, his most extensive to date on the sharpening confrontation with Washington, offered no assurances to the United Nations weapons teams. Instead, Mr. Hussein made a general offer to "any scientific experts accompanied by politicians you choose to represent any one of your countries" to come to Iraq to look for weapons. He said Iraq would provide those foreign experts "all the facilities they need to achieve their objective." 
Mr. Hussein's fierce tone echoed Mr. Bush's, but his sharp words contrasted with the smoother diplomatic language that most other leaders have adopted in eight days of General Assembly speechmaking that ended today. He never spoke of Israel by name, for example, referring only to "Zionism." 
Mr. Blix briefed the Security Council in a closed meeting about his plans to renew inspections in Iraq, which were suspended in December 1998 when the inspectors were withdrawn in advance of an American and British bombing attack on Baghdad. Afterward, Mr. Hussein refused to allow them to return. 
Speaking after the Security Council meeting, Mr. Blix said he had told the Council that Iraqi officials had "not yet been ready" to work out logistical details at a meeting he held with them at the United Nations on Tuesday. Mr. Blix reported that the Iraqi officials said they would complete those practical discussions in talks in Vienna from Sept. 30 to Oct. 2.
According to a time line he presented to the Council, Mr. Blix said the advance team's provisional starting date in Iraq was Oct. 15. The full inspection team, including nuclear experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency, would start work about two months later. But the inspections would not become "fully operational" until at least 60 days after that, Mr. Blix said. 
Then it will take at least four months of inspections before Mr. Blix will report back to the Security Council on Iraq's progress in disarmament -- if Baghdad cooperates fully with the work. 
However, Mr. Blix, who has been under pressure from the United States and other Council nations to accelerate the inspections, said he expected to conduct a few test inspections in the first two months after his team arrived, to judge Iraq's disposition toward the United Nations teams. He said Iraq could have "no sanctuaries" in its territory from the inspectors.
In the Council meeting, the United States ambassador, John D. Negroponte, said that Iraqi officials seemed to be stalling the start of the inspections. He said the United States would press the Council for a resolution specifying tough consequences if Iraq failed to disarm itself of prohibited weapons.
In his letter read before the Council, Mr. Hussein said the Bush administration was planning an attack against Iraq in order to "control the politics as well as the oil and economic policies of the whole world." 
"If it succeeded in that, God forbid," the Iraqi leader said, "it would dictate on you what each country needs for its economic development" by controlling the price and distribution of oil. The Bush administration, he charged, was "acting on behalf of Zionism, which has been killing the heroic people of Palestine, destroying their property, murdering their children and seeking to impose their domination on the whole world."
He said the United Nations sanctions program that monitors Iraqi oil sales -- imposed after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990 -- was "tantamount to looting" and called on the Security Council to lift the sanctions.
Some United Nations officials and many Council diplomats were taken aback by Mr. Hussein's comments. In meetings here over the past days, Mr. Sabri was more conciliatory, leading Council members as well as Arab leaders to believe that Iraq might now have a more open attitude toward the arms inspections.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hans Blix, a U.N. arms inspector, conferred with Security Council. (Agence France-Presse); Iraq's foreign minister, Naji Sabri, read a letter from Saddam Hussein to the General Assembly yesterday in which Mr. Hussein accused the Bush administration of planning to attack Iraq in order to control Mideast oil. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (94%) PRESTON, JULIA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SABRI, NAJI (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AUSTRIA (59%) IRAQ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



549 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Bush Asks Congress To Back Disarming Iraq
President Bush made his most aggressive push yet for swift action by asking Congress for sweeping authority to disarm Iraq and dislodge Saddam Hussein. Mr. Bush warned, "If the United Nations Security Council won't deal with the problem, the United States and some of our friends will." A1

Bush Tactics Criticized
A reported remark by a German minister comparing President Bush's tactics over Iraq to those of Hitler envenomed a close-fought German election and demonstrated how anti-Americanism had moved to the center of political debate. Herta Daubler-Gmelin denied comparing the two men, but did not deny comparing their tactics. A1

Renewed Mideast Violence
A Palestinian suicide bomber blew himself up in a Tel Aviv bus outside the main synagogue, killing five people. Several hours later, Israeli tanks and armored vehicles encircled Yasir Arafat's compound and demanded that he surrender wanted men. Israeli television said the military would impose further restrictions on Palestinian towns. A1

French to Pursue War Criminal
The government will seek to overturn the decision to free Maurice Papon, the highest-ranking French civilian ever to be convicted of Nazi war crimes in World War II. He was released because of his age and poor health, but photos of him walking unaided out of prison prompted protests from some Jewish groups. A12

Slovak Leader's Rule Unlikely
NATO and European officials have warned Slovakia that if Vladimir Meciar is in the next government, the country will not be allowed to join their groups. Polls now indicate that even if his party takes the most votes, it will have less than 20 percent, and no major party will join him. A6

Attempted Coup in Ivory Coast
The former military ruler of the Ivory Coast, Gen. Robert Guei, and the interior minister were killed in fighting between loyalist troops and mutineers, and the state-run television said an attempted coup had been put down. Military sources said at least 20 other soldiers and civilians had died. A11

NATIONAL A18-25

Blood Transfusions Linked To Spread of West Nile
The West Nile virus has been transmitted through blood transfusions in this country, federal officals said, and the government is accelerating efforts to develop blood tests for the virus. A1

Arrest Based on Jitters
A missed plane connection, terrorism paranoia, prolific facial hair and arguably poor judgment resulted in the arrest of two men of Indian descent last week in what seems to be one of the more bizarre instances of air-travel hysteria. A18

Republicans Shelve Tax Cuts
Republican leaders in the House have decided against pushing for a new round of tax cuts to help investors, effectively killing for this year a proposal made last month by President Bush. A22

Budget Cuts at Archdiocese
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles, on the heels of dedicating its $189 million cathedral complex, is laying off workers and paring back services to close a $4.3 million budget deficit. It will cut at least 60 jobs, eliminating or reducing several programs. A24

Nuclear Plants Called Safe
Seeking to counter assertions that the nation's nuclear plants are vulnerable to attacks like the one on the World Trade Center, 19 prominent experts have concluded that such plants could easily withstand the force of a jetliner crash. But others question a crucial test cited by the experts. A17

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Support for Big Bang Theory
A radio telescope at the South Pole has confirmed a critical prediction of the Big Bang theory of the origin of the universe, reassuring cosmologists that their theories of the universe are on track. A20

Space Station's Value Disputed
The International Space Station will never be a first-class research laboratory if recent decisions to reduce its crew size and scientific equipment remain in effect, a panel of experts charged. NASA said it was determined to make the space station scientifically productive. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Arrests in Terror Case Raise Difficult Questions
The dramatic action against eight men from Lackawanna, N.Y., described by the authorities as a preemptive strike against a potentially deadly Qaeda sleeper cell, combines a scarcity of publicly revealed evidence with expressions of outrage from local supporters of the men to make for an unsettling case. A1

City Agrees to Pay Homeless
The city has agreed to pay millions of dollars in penalties dating back to 1995 to homeless families who were forced to stay overnight in a Bronx office while awaiting emergency shelter, a violation of court orders. The agreement resolves years of wrangling between advocates for the homeless and the city. A1

Six Proposals for Arena Site
Six major developers unveiled competing proposals for redeveloping the Continental Arena site in East Rutherford, N.J., envisioning everything from an automobile racing oval and an indoor skiing center to a convention center with hotels and family entertainment emporiums. B1

Lesser Charge for Hells Angel
Prosecutors dropped murder charges against Raymond G. Dwyer, a member of the Hells Angels motorcycle club, saying he may have been justified in firing the shot that killed a member of a rival club at an event in February. Mr. Dwyer pleaded guilty to a charge of third-degree weapons possession. B5

WEEKEND E1-28; E29-40

FASHION B10-11

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B9

Bob Hayes
A pigeon-toed sprinter who broke world records, won two gold medals in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics and then became a feared pass receiver for 11 years in the National Football League, he was 59. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Stock Indexes in Sharp Drop
Disappointing news on earnings and new signs that the economic recovery could be weaker than expected forced stocks to tumble to their lowest level since the overall market hit a five-year low in July. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.8 percent to close at 7,942.39. C1

Political Brawl Over Tax Break
To avoid a trade war, Congress must replace a tax break that was ruled to be an illegal trade subsidy. But business interests are divided and their intense lobbying has Congress all but paralyzed. C1

Progress on Fuel Economy Bill
The House and Senate, as part of a broad energy bill still being worked on, agreed to extend through 2008, the credits that automakers get for vehicles that run on ethanol as well as gasoline. C1

HealthSouth Downplays Inquiry
The HealthSouth Corporation acknowledged a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation and tried to ease concerns over its Medicare billing practices and stock sales by its chairman. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

ESCAPES F1-18

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The politics of war; airport security, a year later; China's cyberspace censorship; houses or gardens in New York City.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E23
TV Listings E26
Public Lives B2
Weather C6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); COUPS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RELIGION (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); WAR CRIMES (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); RANKINGS (66%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (65%); WEST NILE VIRUS (65%); VIRUSES (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); BUDGETS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (57%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (71%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



550 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
WorldCom Creditors Said to Be Restless
Bert C. Roberts Jr., WorldCom's chairman, and John W. Sidgmore, its chief executive, are coming under increasing criticism from creditors concerned about the two men's inexperience at restructuring, their control of the search for a new chief executive and their possible involvement in an expanding accounting scandal, people close to the company said.
 That pressure is expected to increase because WorldCom is close to identifying $2 billion to $3 billion in additional results it will have to restate. Page C3. 

OPEC Leaves Its Quotas Intact
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries left its production quotas intact but said it was ready to pump extra oil if shortages developed, including any resulting from an attack on Iraq. World Business, Section W.

Chief Steps Down at Credit Suisse
Seeking to end criticism of the Credit Suisse Group over his leadership, Lukas Muhlemann, left, will give up the role of chief executive at the end of the year. The company promoted two executives as co-chief executives: John J. Mack, who runs Credit Suisse First Boston, and Oswald J. Grubel, head of the financial services unit. World Business, Section W.

The Massachusetts regulator investigating the practices of analysts at Credit Suisse First Boston told the New York attorney general that his staff had found conduct that may have violated criminal statutes. C2.

New Filing Ordered in Welch Divorce
A Connecticut judge has ordered that a financial affidavit filed by Jane B. Welch in her pending divorce from John F. Welch Jr., the former chief executive of General Electric, must be revised to meet state guidelines and cannot include opinion or characterizations of the couple's lifestyle. C3.

Bail Extension in Tyco Case
A Manhattan judge has given L. Dennis Kozlowski and Mark H. Swartz, the two top former Tyco executives who are charged with looting the company, another day to post bail. Mr. Koslowski's ex-wife has offered $10 million in cash to secure his $100 million bail. C2.

New TV Programs Show Promise
Television and advertising executives say they see promising signs in the ratings of the few prime-time programs that made their debuts this week. So far most of the programs have met or beaten expectations. Advertising. C4.

Pension Fund Makes US Airways Bid
Alabama's public-employee pension fund has offered to invest $240 million in a restructured US Airways Group, topping by 20 percent an offer made by the Texas Pacific Group. The offering raises the possibility of a bidding war for control of the airline. C11.

Chinese Programmer Is Arrested
A Chinese software programmer has been arrested after a Silicon Valley company complained that he had tried to steal software. The programmer, Shan Yan Ming, is in custody, but has not been charged, the F.B.I. said. C5.

Income Falls 13% at Morgan Stanley
Morgan Stanley said net income in its third quarter fell 13 percent from a year earlier, the eighth consecutive quarter of lower profits for the investment firm. In the quarter that ended Aug. 31, Morgan Stanley said it earned $611 million, or 55 cents a share, down from $705 million, or 62 cents a share, in the same period a year ago. Earnings were down 23 percent from the second quarter. C7.

Change at Atlantic Monthly
Michael Kelly, editor of The Atlantic Monthly, is stepping down to become editor at large. Cullen Murphy, the managing editor, will retain that title but take over the magazine's top editorial position. C4.

Housing Starts Fall in August
The number of housing units started in August fell 2.2 percent to the lowest level in four months. The decline surprised analysts, who were forecasting a rise of 1.8 percent. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 7,942.39 down 230.06Nasdaq composite -- 1,216.45 down 35.6810-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.78% down 0.06The euro -- $0.9849 up 0.0084The dollar -- 121.42 yen down 0.54 Graph shows Morgan Stanley share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); BAIL (86%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (86%); ARRESTS (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (85%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (79%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ACCOUNTING (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SCANDALS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); JUDGES (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); EXPORT TRADE (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (84%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (81%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); TPG CAPITAL LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (84%); CS (NYSE) (84%); LCC (NYSE) (81%); MS (NYSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (79%); JACK WELCH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



551 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: A Deal on Fuel Economy Rules Could Increase Oil Consumption 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
House and Senate negotiators reached an agreement today on new fuel economy rules that would increase oil consumption, rather than decrease it, unless the Bush administration takes more aggressive action.
 Under the agreement -- part of a broad energy bill whose fate in Congress remains uncertain -- Congress would extend by four years, through model year 2008, credits automakers receive for making vehicles that can run on ethanol and gasoline. 
 Automakers use the credits to offset their growing production of sport utilities and other vehicles that get relatively low gasoline mileage, though even those who drive the flexible-fuel vehicles make little use of ethanol. A recent government report said that extending the program would result in at least an extra nine billion gallons of petroleum consumption. 
The agreement would also direct the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to rewrite fuel economy standards so that fuel consumption by light trucks -- S.U.V.'s, pickups and minivans -- would be reduced by at least five billion gallons of gasoline by the 2012 model year, compared with the consumption expected under current standards.
Those savings would be tallied separately from the results of the mileage credits and could be canceled out by them, unless the agency, part of the Transportation Department, imposed tougher standards requiring substantially more than five billion gallons in savings.
Representative John D. Dingell, a Michigan Democrat and an auto industry ally who was a principal architect of the agreement, said in a statement, "This is a good package that's the equivalent of taking all S.U.V.'s and light trucks off the road for two years; it is a good place to start."
Environmental groups called his calculations misleading.
Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican who was a co-sponsor of a failed proposal to tighten fuel economy standards significantly, said he was "severely disappointed but not surprised by" the conference committee proposal.
Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who was the other co-sponsor of the earlier proposal, said, "It's shocking to me we couldn't do better when we're on the brink of war with Iraq and we know how much oil comes from the most volatile parts of the world."
The auto industry, however, applauded the plan on corporate average fuel economy, or CAFE, standards. "We think that today Congress did what Congress does best," said Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers. "It set up a CAFE light-truck goal and tasked a government agency with meeting that goal, and that government agency in turn will task the auto industry.
"We think five billion is a challenge," she added. "We have to deal with consumer demand and what consumers want to buy."
Prospects for the full energy bill to come to a vote in Congress depend on further wrangling on more contentious issues, like drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska.
If the deal on mileage standards becomes law, environmental groups are skeptical that the Bush administration will defy the auto industry and call for the savings, beyond five billion gallons of gasoline, that would toughen overall fuel economy requirements. "This deal enshrines oil addiction as national policy for the foreseeable future," said Daniel Becker of the Sierra Club. 
Data from the government report on the ethanol credits -- issued in March by the Transportation and Energy Departments and the Environmental Protection Agency -- indicate that extending the credits will more than cancel out the five billion gallons in reduced gasoline consumption. According to the report, extending the program will lead to 9 billion to 11.6 billion more gallons of gasoline consumption. 
The original House energy bill required the five billion gallons in savings to be achieved by 2010. Mr. Dingell and Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, successfully pushed back the provision by two years.
The Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group, disputed Mr. Dingell's assertion that the measure was equivalent to taking all light trucks off the road for two years. The group said it was equivalent to taking only all the new S.U.V.'s sold in 2001 off the road for one and a half years. Mr. Dingell's calculation did not appear to account for the effect of ethanol credits. 
Some senators, including Mr. Kerry, successfully fought to strip out language pushed by Mr. Dingell and Mr. Tauzin that would have complicated the traffic safety agency's regulatory process. The language would have directed the agency to study the potential effects of raising fuel standards, including the relative impact on different automakers and the extent to which spending on better gasoline mileage would take away from futuristic technologies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malcolm Price of Chicago pumped gasoline into his sport utility vehicle recently. Congressional negotiators agreed yesterday to extend credits that let automakers offset production of vehicles that have low gas mileage. (Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ETHANOL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); MINIVANS (76%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (75%); IRAQ WAR (71%) AUTOMOBILES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FUEL EFFICIENCY; ETHANOL; PRODUCTION; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (83%) NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%) HAKIM, DANNY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DINGELL, JOHN D (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



552 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: SECURITY; 
Bush to Outline Doctrine of Striking Foes First

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
On Friday, the Bush administration will publish its first comprehensive rationale for shifting American military strategy toward pre-emptive action against hostile states and terrorist groups developing weapons of mass destruction. The strategy document will also state, for the first time, that the United States will never allow its military supremacy to be challenged the way it was during the cold war.
 In the 33-page document, Mr. Bush also seeks to answer the critics of growing American muscle-flexing by insisting that the United States will exploit its military and economic power to encourage "free and open societies," rather than seek "unilateral advantage." It calls this union of values and national interests "a distinctly American internationalism." Excerpts, Page A14. 
 The document, titled "The National Security Strategy of the United States," is one that every president is required to submit to Congress. It is the first comprehensive explanation of the administration's foreign policy, from defense strategy to global warming. A copy of the final draft was obtained by The New York Times. 
It sketches out a far more muscular and sometimes aggressive approach to national security than any since the Reagan era. It includes the discounting of most nonproliferation treaties in favor of a doctrine of "counterproliferation," a reference to everything from missile defense to forcibly dismantling weapons or their components. It declares that the strategies of containment and deterrence -- staples of American policy since the 1940's -- are all but dead. There is no way in this changed world, the document states, to deter those who "hate the United States and everything for which it stands." 
"America is now threatened less by conquering states than we are by failing ones," the document states, sounding what amounts to a death knell for many of the key strategies of the cold war. 
One of the most striking elements of the new strategy document is its insistence "that the president has no intention of allowing any foreign power to catch up with the huge lead the United States has opened since the fall of the Soviet Union more than a decade ago." 
"Our forces will be strong enough," Mr. Bush's document states, "to dissuade potential adversaries from pursuing a military buildup in hopes of surpassing, or equaling, the power of the United States." With Russia so financially hobbled that it can no longer come close to matching American military spending, the doctrine seemed aimed at rising powers like China, which is expanding its conventional and nuclear forces. 
Administration officials who worked on the strategy for months say it amounts to both a maturation and an explanation of Mr. Bush's vision for the exercise of America power after 20 months in office, integrating the military, economic and moral levers he holds. 
Much of the document focuses on how public diplomacy, the use of foreign aid, and changes in the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank can be used to win what it describes as a battle of competing values and ideas -- including "a battle for the future of the Muslim world."
The president put the final touches on the new strategy last weekend at Camp David after working on it for months with his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, and with other members of the national security team. In its military hawkishness, its expressions of concern that Russian reforms could be undermined by the country's elite, and its focus on bolstering foreign aid -- especially for literacy training and AIDS -- it particularly bears the stamp of Ms. Rice's thinking.
A senior White House official said Mr. Bush had edited the document heavily "because he thought there were sections where we sounded overbearing or arrogant." But at the same time, the official said, it is important to foreclose the option that other nations could aspire to challenge the United States militarily, because "once you cut off the challenge of military competition, you open up the possibility of cooperation in a number of other areas."
Still, the administration's critics at home and abroad will almost certainly find ammunition in the document for their argument that Mr. Bush is only interested in a multilateral approach as long as it does not frustrate his will. At several points, the document states clearly that when important American interests are at stake there will be no compromise.
The document argues that while the United States will seek allies in the battle against terrorism, "we will not hesitate to act alone, if necessary, to exercise our right of self-defense by acting pre-emptively." That includes "convincing or compelling states to accept their sovereign responsibilities" not to aid terrorists, the essence of the doctrine Mr. Bush declared on the night of Sept. 11, 2001.
The White House delayed releasing the document this week so that its lengthy discussion of conditions under which the United States might take unilateral, pre-emptive action would not dominate delicate negotiations in the United Nations or the testimony of administration officials who appeared at Congressional hearings to discuss Iraq.
The new strategy departs significantly from the last one published by President Clinton, at the end of 1999.
Mr. Clinton's strategy dealt at length with tactics to prevent the kind of financial meltdowns that threatened economies in Asia and Russia. The Bush strategy urges other nations to adopt Mr. Bush's own economic philosophy, starting with low marginal tax rates. While Mr. Clinton's strategy relied heavily on enforcing or amending a series of international treaties, from the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty to Kyoto protocols on the environment, Mr. Bush's strategy dismisses most of those efforts.
In fact, the new document -- which Mr. Bush told his staff had to be written in plain English because "the boys in Lubbock ought to be able to read it" -- celebrates his decision last year to abandon the ABM treaty because it impeded American efforts to build a missile defense system. It recites the dangers of nonproliferation agreements that have failed to prevent Iran, North Korea, Iraq and other countries from obtaining weapons of mass destruction, and says that the United States will never subject its citizens to the newly created International Criminal Court, "whose jurisdiction does not extend to Americans."
The document makes no reference to the Kyoto accord, but sets an "overall objective" of cutting American greenhouse gas emissions "per unit of economic activity by 18 percent over the next 10 years." The administration says that is a reasonable goal given its view of the current state of environmental science. Its critics, however, point out that the objective is voluntary, and allows enormous room for American emissions to increase as the American economy expands.
The doctrine also describes at great length the administration's commitment to bolstering American foreign aid by 50 percent in the next few years in "countries whose governments rule justly, invest in their people and encourage economic freedom." It insists that the programs must have "measurable results" to assure that the money is actually going to the poor, especially for schools, health care and clean water.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about the Bush administration's adoption of a doctrine of pre-emptive action against hostile countries placed a passage in quotation marks erroneously in a description of the 33-page document prepared for Congress. The comment -- that the president has no intention of allowing any foreign power to catch up with the huge lead the United States has opened since the fall of the Soviet Union more than a decade ago -- was the writer's summation of interviews with senior administration officials.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, worked extensively on the new security strategy. (Fox News, via AP)(pg. A14) Chart: "Changes in Strategy for National Security"How President Bush's new national security strategy compares with President Clinton's final one in some key areas: CLINTON STRATEGYDecember 1999 Pre-emptive Action No use of the word pre-emption. "We must always be prepared to act alone when that is our most advantageous course, or when we have no alternative." But notes that "many of our security objectives are best achieved -- or can only be achieved -- by leveraging our influence and capabilities through international organizations, our alliances, or as a leader of an ad hoc coalition." NEW BUSH STRATEGY "While the United States will constantly strive to enlist the support of the international community, we will not hesitate to act alone, if necessary, to exercise our right of self-defense by acting pre-emptively against such terrorists." Also pledges to deny terrorists sanctuary and support "by convincing or compelling states to accept their sovereign responsibilities." CLINTON STRATEGYDecember 1999 Treaties "Arms control and nonproliferation initiatives are an essential element of our national security strategy and a critical complement to our efforts to defend our nation." Adds later: "The Antiballistic Missile Treaty remains a cornerstone of strategic stability" and "the United States remains committed to bring the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty into force." NEW BUSH STRATEGY Argues that nonproliferation efforts have failed, and that despite such agreements, Iraq, Iran and North Korea have obtained weapons of mass destruction. Relies more on "counterproliferation," saying "we must deter and defend against the threat before it is unleashed." CLINTON STRATEGYDecember 1999 Military Strength "Fighting and winning major theater wars is the ultimate test of our armed forces -- a test at which they must always succeed. For the foreseeable future, the United States, preferably in concert with allies, must have the capability to deter and, if deterrence fails, defeat large-scale, cross-border aggression in two distant theaters in overlapping time frames." NEW BUSH STRATEGY "The United States must and will maintain the capability to defeat any attempt by an enemy -- whether a state or nonstate actor -- to impose its will on the United States, our allies, or our friends. . . . Our forces will be strong enough to dissuade potential adversaries from pursuing a military build-up in hopes of surpassing, or equaling, the power of the United States." CLINTON STRATEGYDecember 1999 Global Economic Growth Focuses on debt relief for developing nations and efforts to "build a stable, resilient global financial system" that includes more openness at the International Monetary Fund, with focus on "social, labor and environmental concerns." NEW BUSH STRATEGY Calls for "pro-growth" legal and regulatory policies, "tax policies -- particularly lower marginal tax rates -- that improve incentives for work and investment," and free trade that "fosters the diffusion of technologies and ideas." Urges I.M.F. and World Bank to focus on "achieving economic growth through sound fiscal and monetary policy, exchange rate policy and financial sector policy."(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) RUSSIA 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



553 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2984 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE BUFFALO CASE; 
Murky Lives, Fateful Trip In Buffalo Terrorism Case

BYLINE:  This article was reported by John Kifner, Marc Santora and Susan Sachs and was written by Ms. Sachs. 

DATELINE: LACKAWANNA, N.Y., Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Faith, the handful of young men told friends and family, propelled them to leave their homes here in the spring of 2001 and seek religious instruction in Pakistan. What they brought back, according to the government, were the beginnings of an education in terrorism acquired instead at a fortified military camp in Afghanistan run by Al Qaeda.
 The facts and the full implications of what happened on the Lackawanna men's journey have yet to be determined in court -- their true intentions, their level of training, their commitment to terror. Indeed, at a hearing today, one defense lawyer said his client had tried desperately to leave the terrorist camp virtually from the moment he arrived, weeping on one occasion and faking an injury on another. 
 But the action against eight Lackawanna men in the last week and a half -- described by the authorities as a pre-emptive strike against a potentially deadly Qaeda sleeper cell -- combined with a scarcity of publicly revealed evidence and the expressions of outrage from local supporters of the men have made for an extraordinary case. And in its murkiness the case is the sort that could become more familiar as the government tries to thwart terrorism on American soil. 
Federal authorities, painfully aware since Sept. 11 that terrorists can hide in plain sight, have made clear they will act when they have concerns, even if the evidence is incomplete or the dimensions of the possible threat unknown. In such an environment, though, many, including Muslims here who have pledged houses and bank accounts to secure the release of the jailed men, believe that mistakes have been made, risks overstated, lives ruined.
The federal judge who is overseeing the case expressed such concerns at a bail hearing this week for the six men arrested last week.
"Everybody has to admit this is a highly unusual case filled with emotion, filled with fear, filled with anxiety," said Magistrate Judge H. Kenneth Schroeder Jr. "We are dealing with serious constitutional issues." He added, "I am attempting to balance the rights of the people of the community to be safe and the rights of the defendants."
The bond hearing will continue Friday and a ruling is not expected until next week.
Federal prosecutors in Buffalo have accused the seven travelers and an eighth man, a former Lackawanna resident, of being secret Qaeda operatives. Six of the men, who returned home after most spent five to six weeks in the Afghan camps in the spring and summer of 2001, are in custody. Two others are at large and believed to be in Yemen.
So far, officials have described their case with a modest amount of detail. While prosecutors have said they do not know of any specific act the men planned to commit, they have formally cited one communication among the men that they regard as suspicious and dangerous.
Most centrally, the government has charged that the men's mere attendance at a notorious Qaeda camp, where Osama bin Laden himself spoke to the trainees about jihad, violated a 1996 federal law against providing "material support or resources" for terrorists.
To support the charge, the government has offered only affidavits of an investigator who said two of the men admitted during interrogation that they had gone to the camp.
But the lawyer for one defendant, Sahim Alwan, today said his client's statement to federal agents was far from a confession. The lawyer, James Harrington, said Mr. Alwan was afraid and lasted only 10 days at the camp. He faked an ankle injury in an attempt to leave. In his statement to investigators, Mr. Harrington said, Mr. Alwan wrote, "After realizing the crazy, radical mentality of people at the camp, I decided to leave."
And here in this ragged old steel town, home to several thousand Yememi immigrants and their children, many people say the government is trying to find the men guilty by association. They say the government has misinterpreted the actions of a group of aimless but essentially harmless American Muslims, all of them United States citizens.
One of the men, they say, is too fat to be a trained terrorist. Another is a pillar of the neighborhood, someone who constantly talks up the golden opportunities of American life. Others are part-time students or idlers who have had their minor brushes with the police, but who returned from their trip abroad and settled unobtrusively into their old lives.
In the context of the government's case, the men's unexceptional lives do not necessarily constitute a defense, and the surprise felt by their neighbors and families could be seen as evidence of the very success of plotting. After all, they were, by the government's account, a sleeper cell.
The prosecution's case, at least in part, is that a terrorist can be the kid next door. The Sept. 11 hijackers blended in without attracting attention. Another American recently accused of terrorism, Jose Padilla, worked in obscurity as a maintenance man and hotel worker.
As for the Lackawanna men, the government's argument is that they should have known better, that they could not have gone to the terrorist camp by accident or ignorant of the grave implications. By 2001, officials said, members of Mr. bin Laden's organization had been convicted of the 1998 bombings of United States embassies in Africa, and Mr. bin Laden had been blamed for the 2000 bombing of the American destroyer Cole in Aden harbor in Yemen.

A Prosecution Road Map
Fighting a battle against terrorism on home ground, officials have said, requires new interpretations, sometimes in hindsight, and quick reflexes to prevent trouble before it happens. Peter Ahearn, special agent in charge of the Buffalo office of the F.B.I., said the prosecution here could provide a legal road map for similar investigations wherever there are suspicions of terrorism.
Such arguments have not allayed the concerns of the Muslim Americans here that the Lackawanna men have been cast as criminals because of their religion and their travels, not because of some crime they committed or even plotted to commit.
Over the past week, many people here have been going over what they know of the men and the paths they took from high school, where they were popular soccer players and frequent visitors to the community mosque, to a federal courtroom. Some key events stand out, they say, but the pieces do not add up to a danger. What the reflection has proved, however, is how much the world seems to have changed.
Lackawanna was built to serve Bethlehem Steel. For decades the city drew immigrants of all backgrounds, Poles and Irish and Yemenis who settled in the company town and put out the word that good jobs were to be had. But the good days ended long ago.
Some of the original Yemeni workers moved on to other factory jobs near Detroit. But most stayed. Some invested in big second houses back in their native villages. Others opened small groceries and delis.
Most of the men accused in the case were either born here or came as youngsters. They attended the local public high school and followed what relatives describe as all-American paths. One of the men, Yasein A. Taher, was voted friendliest in his 1996 high school graduation class.
The men, in general, are remembered by classmates and teachers not for their academic records but for soccer, an obsession they share with others here and which helps bind the generations.
The sense of having a foot in two worlds is common among the residents of Yemeni descent. Many of the young men in the neighborhood, and some girls, have been sent back to live with relatives in Yemen, part of their family's continuing struggle to connect their American offspring to their roots. It is also common for young men, including some of those involved in the terror case, to go to Yemen to select a wife.
The tradition has the effect of bringing a constant infusion of the religious and socially conservative Yemeni culture to Lackawanna, where it coexists in uneasy partnership with the temptations of American life. In the eyes of the clannish Yemeni elders then, to have a child who is openly devoted to Islam is a badge of honor.

Underwhelming Lives
Still, after high school, many of the men began to drift. A few took classes at community colleges. Most are unemployed or have part-time jobs. 
"They were driving flashy cars and buying up all this stuff," said Ricardo Rivera, 23, a local man who said he attended high school with several of the accused men. "Those guys were definitely up to no good."
The exception was Sahim A. Alwan, who worked until his arrest at the nearby Iroquois Job Corps Center. The center offers training and job placement services. Neighbors said he seemed always on the job.
"If he was driving down the street, and he saw somebody walking and doing nothing, he'd stop and say, 'I can get you a job,' " said a high school friend.
Mr. Alwan also took turns leading the prayers at the Lackawanna mosque, impressing members who appreciated his command of English.
"When he preached, he would talk about what it meant to be a good Muslim," said Munhir Mohsin, the junior high school soccer coach who knows all the accused men. "I think when he used to speak, people often would get more out of it than when the imam spoke."
Such civic success did not come to others in the group of men who would eventually go to Pakistan.
In the tough, gritty world of the neighborhood, where jobs are scarce, some of them have had scrapes with the law, particularly Shafel Mosed, a former soccer star goalie who both law enforcement officials and neighbors said had been involved in cigarette smuggling.
But, with the nearby Tuscarora, Seneca and Tonawanda Indian reservations, where tax-free cigarettes are sold, smuggling is a relatively common pasttime. Indeed, most cases tend to be reduced to misdemeanors or dismissed, a law enforcement official said. The West Seneca Police Department has two cases on file regarding Mr. Mosed, both misdemeanors in which the charges were eventually expunged. The records, though, are sealed.
During a bond hearing Wednesday, prosecutors raised questions about some of the men's finances. Referring to pretrial probation department evaluations, William J. Hochul Jr., the prosecutor, said that Mr. Mosed had declared a net worth of $1,000. But a search of his apartment turned up some $6,400 in cash. Mr. Hochul added that Mr. Mosed had spent $89,000 at the Casino Niagara, just over the border in Canada, although he did not say over what period of time.
Patrick Brown, Mr. Mosed's lawyer, said today in the bond hearing that the money belonged to Mr. Mosed's wife and that the casino spending included vast amounts spent by Mr. Mosed's friends.
Friends and neighbors said the young men took on a new image about three years ago, seemingly under the influence of a burly man named Kamal Derwish. 
Mr. Derwish had been an off-again-on-again presence in Lackawanna. He spent much of his childhood in Saudi Arabia, said a neighbor, but came to the city as a teenager. He left for Yemen at one point, but returned here sometime in the mid-1990's, bringing with him his new Yemeni wife.
Many people in the community grew to see him as a disruptive influence, challenging the Yemeni community's religious mores and offending its social conventions.
He started holding his own meetings in the mosque, promoting what he said was more pure Islamic behavior. He agitated to separate boys and girls in the weekend classes at the Islamic school.

Following a Leader
But Mr. Derwish had his acolytes, among them the men are now charged, according to the government. They joined him at a Qaeda training camp in Afghanistan where, the officials say, he was enrolled in a more advanced military course.
Mr. Derwish's encouragement of a deeper study of Islam coincided with the popular preaching of visiting members of a religious group called Tablighi Jamaat, which sends ordinary Muslims on proselytizing missions around the world.
The older followers of Mr. Derwish, including the men now accused of belonging to Al Qaeda, took to leaving their beards long and untrimmed. They prayed in the mosque. To some people in Lackawanna, it seemed that the young idlers were finding a life purpose.
When they announced in early 2001 that they were going to Pakistan to study in a Tablighi Jamaat school, many of their older neighbors thought the trip would do them good.
"Up until a couple of years ago, you couldn't drag those guys to a mosque," said Maneer Lahi, who knows the accused men.
Most people, he added, considered the sudden religious devotion a passing phase and assumed the men around Mr. Derwish would settle on some middle course eventually.
Mr. Derwish had already left Lackawanna by the time his seven friends went to Pakistan. Federal investigators said Faysal Galab, Mr. Mosed and Mr. Taher arrived first, on April 29, 2001, landing in Karachi on a direct flight from Kennedy International Airport in New York City. Each had paid $1,300 in cash for their tickets.
The second group arrived in May. Its members were Mr. Alwan, the jobs counselor, Yahya Goba, Mukhtar Ali Albakri and Jaber Elbaneh.
Mr. Albakri, who has since given a statement to the F.B.I., said his group spent about one week in Karachi and then flew to Quetta, Pakistan. They spent one night there, according to the government's account of his statement, and drove the rutted mountain road to Kandahar in Afghanistan, then the center of the Taliban spiritual leader Mullah Omar. From there, they were taken to a training camp to learn firearms and mountain climbing, he said.

Returning Home
It is unclear whether Mr. Elbaneh returned, and he remains at large. 
When the others came home, friends said, they did not talk much about their trip or the Islamic school they had said they were going to attend. That struck some people as strange, considering the fanfare surrounding their departure.
Several of the men, according to neighbors, trimmed their beards upon returning home. Soon, it became clear to some people in the neighborhood that the men had caught the attention of the government. In their defense, these neighbors said, the men did not try to flee or hide. Indeed, in February, before going to Saudi Arabia for the annual Muslim pilgrimage, Mr. Alwan notified the F.B.I. of his departure and his return, according to his lawyer.
"We knew the F.B.I. was around," said Ahmed Mosed, 33, who said he is a cousin of Shafal Mosed. "But Shafal wasn't scared because he had nothing to be scared about."
The F.B.I.'s interest -- apparently cursory at first -- had been set off by the return of Messrs. Galab, Mosed and Taher through Kennedy Airport on June 27, 2001, with Pakistani exit stamps in their passports. 
That interest continued well after the 9/11 attacks and, apparently as part of a routine security tightening after it was noted that terror suspects had been transiting Pakistan, agents interviewed Mr. Mosed, on July 8, and Mr. Taher, on July 26.
The men, officials said, told the agents that they, along with Mr. Galab, were in Pakistan for Tablighi Jamaat religious training. Around the same time, Mr. Alwan was interviewed, and he told a similar story.
But little more than one month later, as the first anniversary of the attacks approached, interest in the men again picked up. "There was an increase in chatter," said a law enforcement official, "and there was language we didn't understand."
Soon, there was a rapid series of events. Mr. Albakri was seized by Bahraini police on Sept 10 after a party celebrating his wedding there to a Yemeni woman. He was beaten, his lawyer, John J. Molloy, said. The next day the F.B.I. interviewed him in a Bahraini jail.
At first he said he had only gone to Pakistan for religious training, according to court documents. But he eventually described going to the training camp in Afghanistan.
At some point, agents apparently came across an e-mail message from July that had been sent by Mr. Albakri to what they claimed was a co-conspirator in western New York. While vague and seemingly nonsensical, parts of the message so alarmed the law enforcement authorities that they increased the security alert at the military bases in Bahrain and closed the embassy in Bahrain.
Prosecutors disclosed what they said were parts of the message during the first day of this week's bond hearings. At one point the message said, "The next meal will be very large," then added, "this thing will be very strong."
Mr. Molloy, Mr. Albakri's lawyer, said the message was nothing more than his client repeating overheard conversations he had picked up on the streets during a visit to Saudi Arabia last spring.
On Sept. 12, the F.B.I. reinterviewed Mr. Alwan, who this time admitted taking the trip to Afghanistan. Last Friday night, raids were conducted here that swept up five of the men.
But the nature of the statements given to agents are being challenged by defense lawyers, who say the statements, when appreciated in full, depict a much more muted picture of the experiences in the camps.
Today, the second day of bond hearings, Mr. Alwan's lawyer said his client also told investigators that he wanted to leave the camp from the first but was prevented from doing so by Qaeda trainers.
By the fifth day in camp, the lawyer said Mr. Alwan had told investigators, he was desperate.
As he recounted it to investigators last week, Mr. Alwan said he begged to be let go. "I told him I wanted to leave because I was scared and I missed my family," he said in his statement. A few days later, Mr. bin Laden turned up surrounded by bodyguards and gave an anti-American and anti-Israel speech.
Finally, after 10 days in the camp, Mr. Alwan managed to get out and eventually back home, Mr. Harrington said. Prosecutors said he flew into Toronto on June 21. 
When investigators asked him why he had gone in the first place, Mr. Alwan responded, "My purpose of attending the camp was to see what it was all about."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture in early editions on Sept. 20 showed a 6-year-old boy aiming a toy pistol alongside a sign reading "Arabian Foods" outside a store in Lackawanna, N.Y., near Buffalo. The store was near the scene of two arrests in a raid described by the authorities as a pre-emptive strike against a cell of Al Qaeda, and the picture appeared with an article recounting life stories of the detainees. The picture was not relevant to the article and should not have appeared; news editors deleted it before later editions went to press.
After the picture was published, two editors from other news organizations telephoned The Times to report that their photographers said it had been posed. The Times's policy guideline on journalistic integrity says, in part, "Pictures of news situations must not be posed"; many news organizations have similar policies.
In response to the calls, Times editors conducted an inquiry, interviewing the Times photographer and several witnesses. The inquiry could not establish that the picture had been posed. 
Later, however, The Times received a call from The Columbia Journalism Review, which was also investigating reports of the incident. Senior Times editors conducted a further inquiry and inspected the images from the entire photo assignment. The editors concluded, and the photographer acknowledged, that the boy's gesture had not been spontaneous.
The Times regrets this violation of its policy on journalistic integrity.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John J. Molloy, the lawyer for Mukhtar Ali Albakri, speaking to reporters on Tuesday. Behind him was Ahmed Albakri, a relative of the suspect.; Imam Abdulwahab Ziad of the Lackawanna Islamic Mosque last week after the arrest of six young Muslims who had worshiped at the mosque. The men, all American citizens, are suspected as potential terrorists. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (90%); JUDGES (89%); RELIGION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); MEN (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); HIJACKING (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); MAGISTRATES (76%); BAIL (76%); ARRESTS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (77%) KIFNER, JOHN; BIN LADEN, OSAMA; SCHROEDER, H KENNETH JR (JUDGE); MOSED, SHAFAL A; GOBA, YAHA A; ALWAN, SAHIM A; TAHER, YASEIN A; GALAB, FAYSAL H; BAKRI, MUKHTAR AL- 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); YEMEN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); LACKAWANNA (NY); BUFFALO (NY); PAKISTAN; 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002 



554 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Top Turkish Candidate Barred From Election 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The leader of Turkey's most popular political party was barred today from running in the Nov. 3 elections because of his conviction three years ago for reading a poem that a court said incited religious hatred.
 The country's highest electoral board ruled that Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of the Justice and Development Party and a former mayor of Istanbul, was ineligible for election to Parliament because of the conviction. The ruling also means that he cannot serve as prime minister if his party wins a majority in the voting. 
 Public opinion polls show Mr. Erdogan's party leading by a wide margin, and Mr. Erdogan has crafted a moderate, pro-Western message to distance himself from his roots in political Islam. But the country's military and some business leaders have been nervous about his rising popularity, and the ruling was seen in some quarters as a blatant attempt to stop him. 
"There is a rumor afoot that the board's decision is the decision by the establishment in Turkey to disqualify Erdogan for good to try to weaken his party popularity in the country," a Western diplomat said in Ankara, the capital.
The ruling adds a new element of uncertainty to the coming elections at a time when Turkey's strategic importance to the United States and its allies is high. The American and British warplanes that patrol the no-flight zones in Iraq use a base in southern Turkey, and the country is expected to provide bases for any American attack on Iraq. 
The ruling also is likely to draw criticism from the European Union, which has been pushing Turkey to ease restrictions on freedom of speech and religion as part of its effort to join the union. In August, Parliament passed legislation easing restrictions on free speech.
The immediate beneficiary of the election board's decision is expected to be a left-of-center party that includes Kemal Dervis, a former economy minister. 
The board, citing past convictions, also prohibited candidacies by Necmettin Erbakan, a former prime minister with an Islamic party; Murat Bozlak, the leader of the pro-Kurdish party; and Akin Birdal, the country's most prominent human rights activist. Mr. Erbakan had been convicted of antisecular activities, and Mr. Bozlak and Mr. Birdal had been jailed for calling for a peaceful end to Turkey's long conflict with Kurdish separatists.
Western diplomats and human rights advocates said the decisions reflected poorly on Turkey's willingness to embrace real democracy despite the measures approved by Parliament last month.
"We think that the broadest possible participation in political debate is the healthiest option for democracies, and people will question this decision and its compatibility with the decisions of Aug. 2 by the Turkish Parliament," one Western diplomat said.
Appearing before a chanting crowd of supporters in Ankara, Mr. Erdogan said the decision to bar his candidacy called into question the state of democracy in Turkey.
"Today the public consciousness is heavily wounded," he said. "However, nobody should get upset, for this wound will surely be healed."
Murat Mercan, a party spokesman, said there appeared to be no avenue for appeal. He said Mr. Erdogan would continue to campaign as the party's chairman.
Mr. Erdogan's troubles date to a poem he recited during a political speech in 1997 while mayor of Istanbul. "The mosques are our bayonets, the domes our helmets and the believers our soldiers," he said.
A court later ruled that the words incited religious hatred and sentenced Mr. Erdogan to prison for 10 months, stripped him of his office and barred him from politics. He served four months in prison in 1999.
He started a political comeback last year, creating a new party from the remnants of a previously banned Islamic party. Earlier this month, a lower court in Diyarbakir lifted the political ban, citing changes in the law passed by Parliament in August. An appeals court overturned that ruling and the elections board decided in a divided vote that the political ban remained in effect.
According to recent polls, Mr. Erdogan's party had the support of between 20 and 25 percent of the voters in this predominantly Muslim country. The fate of the party, however, is uncertain. Party officials said they would continue to campaign, and some political analysts predicted a sympathy backlash that could give the party an outright victory in November. But the political fortunes of Turkey's parties traditionally rise and fall on the popularity of individual leaders, and Mr. Erdogan's absence could jeopardize his party's chances.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Recep Tayyip Erdogan was disqualified from Turkey's elections. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (86%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); APPROVALS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%) ELECTIONS 

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (91%) FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; ERDOGAN, RECEP TAYYIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (93%); ANKARA, TURKEY (92%) TURKEY (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



555 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
A TimidGain Completes Still Another Losing Week

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Buyers cautiously returned to Wall Street yesterday, sending stocks higher on bargain hunting after three days of big losses. But the market's three main gauges still posted their fourth consecutive weekly losses.
 Analysts said investors were ambivalent about the strength of the economic recovery and third-quarter profits. After disappointing earnings news this week from Electronic Data Systems and Morgan Stanley, the market was helped by a positive outlook from Qualcomm. 
 "I think what we're seeing is a tug of war between one camp looking for the economy and corporate earnings to fall significantly further from where we are, and the other camp looking for the economy to expand, albeit on a modest path," said Kevin Caron, market strategist at Ryan, Beck & Company.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 43.63 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 7,986.02. On Thursday, blue chips dropped 230 points, to close below 8,000 for the first time since July 23.
The broader market also finished higher. The Nasdaq composite index gained 4.64 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,221.09. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched up 2.07 points, or 0.3 percent, to 845.39.
The four-week losing streak for the three major market gauges was the first since the period that ended June 21. For this week, the Dow lost 3.9 percent, the Nasdaq declined 5.5 percent, and the S.& P. fell 5.0 percent.
Trading was brisk because yesterday was what is called a triple-witching session, the quarterly expiration of index futures and index and stock options. But there was little of the price volatility that often accompanies triple-witching days.
Analysts say investors remain focused on the economy and have increasingly lost confidence in the last month because of mixed economic reports, a possible war with Iraq and disappointing earnings news.
Since hitting a peak on Aug. 22, the Dow has lost more than 1,000 points, about 400 of which came in the last three sessions.
"The bottom line seems to be that U.S. stocks are stuck in a trading range and that we still don't know when the economy and corporate profits will truly start to recover in a sustainable way," said Stuart A. Schweitzer, global investment strategist for J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management.
Gainers included Qualcomm, which climbed $2.36, to $28.08, after the company, the telecommunications software maker, said it expected first-quarter shipments of phone chips to be significantly higher than 20 million.
Alcatel, the French telecommunications equipment maker, rose 16 cents, to $2.61, after it said it would cut 10,000 more employees by the end of 2003 and said that it expected that sales would decline 36 percent this year.
Losers included Duke Energy, which fell $1.02, to $20.40, after lowering its 2002 earnings estimates below analysts' expectations.
Bond prices were mixed yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note was unchanged at a price of 104 29/32. The yield on the note remained at 3.78 percent. 
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 22/32, to 109 26/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.74 percent from 4.71 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (83%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); SHIPMENTS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); STOCK OPTIONS (58%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (57%); QUALCOMM INC (57%); FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (51%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (57%); DUK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (58%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



556 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Transit Union Opens Talks With Long List of Grievances 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Negotiations got off to a tense start yesterday for New York City's 34,000 subway and bus workers, as their union demanded major improvements in wages and benefits to catch up with their suburban counterparts.
 But New York City Transit, which is part of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said the recession and the drop in revenues and ridership that the agency had experienced recently would make it hard to grant large raises. 
 With the union's contract expiring on Dec. 15, both sides predicted the talks would be especially difficult, and union officials said they were not ruling out the possibility of a strike, even though strikes by public employees are prohibited under state law. 
"We will do everything possible to arrive at a contract on Dec. 15, but we will not surrender our right to strike," said Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union of America.
At the first negotiating session, which in an unusual gesture was open to the news media, Mr. Toussaint said his members felt they were being treated as second-class citizens.
In a presentation that used colored charts and a slide show, he complained that workers for New York City Transit received worse wages, health coverage and other benefits than workers for Metro North and the Long Island Rail Road -- which are also part of the M.T.A..
"Neither the union, nor the authority can allow this second-class treatment to continue," Mr. Toussaint said in a 45-minute opening statement at the Roosevelt Hotel. "Our wages have not kept pace with other transit workers."
In a 30-page list of contract demands, the union did not specify what percentage raise it was seeking, saying only that it wanted a "substantial raise."
Peter S. Kalikow, chairman of the M.T.A., said it would be difficult to be as generous as three years ago, when the economy was booming and transit ridership and revenues were rising. "Today we face much more difficult times," Mr. Kalikow said in opening remarks that were less confrontational. "The effect has been to open large gaps in our operating budget."
Mr. Kalikow said the M.T.A. was working hard to find ways to balance its income with its expenses. "We will have to make many difficult decisions in the weeks and months ahead," he said. "Labor costs are clearly part of this equation."
Mr. Toussaint said train operators for New York City Transit earned $24.35 an hour, while Metro North train operators earned $31.89. Signal maintainers for the New York City Transit earned $24.54, he said, while those on the L.I.R.R. earned nearly $2.50 more. Maintaining signs in the subway tunnels, he said, is a dirtier, more dangerous job.
Mr. Toussaint also demanded improvements in health benefits. He displayed one slide showing that New York City Transit contributed about $2.50 an hour per employee toward health insurance, while the Long Island Rail Road contributed $4.50.
Mr. Toussaint also criticized New York City Transit's disciplinary procedures, which he called arbitrary and demeaning.
The M.T.A. is scheduled to make its proposals next week. Officials said yesterday that they had no point-by-point response to the union presentation. "I am confident that this round of bargaining will be successful for all concerned," Mr. Kalikow said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); TRAINS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SUBURBS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA (56%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



557 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 550 words

PERSON: Anthony Leonid Turkevich 

HEADLINE: A. L. Turkevich Is Dead at 86; Ascertained Moon's Makeup 

BYLINE:  By CARMEL McCOUBREY

 BODY:
Anthony L. Turkevich, a scientist who was the first to figure out what the moon is made of -- and who did it before astronauts brought back any samples -- died on Sept. 7 at his home in Lexington, Va. He was 86.
 Before Neil Armstrong landed on the moon in 1969, NASA sent several unmanned spacecraft to scout it. Aboard Surveyor 5, which landed on the Sea of Tranquillity in 1967, was Dr. Turkevich's alpha scattering spectrometer, a box about six inches to a side, which was lowered to the surface with a nylon string. 
 The instrument bombarded the moon's surface with subatomic particles from capsules of the radioactive element curium, the first use of this technique. After observing how the particles bounced off elements in the soil, Dr. Turkevich and his team concluded that the surface was made of the volcanic rock basalt with a high degree of titanium. The lunar soil was similar to that of the Hudson River Palisades. Two later craft, Surveyors 6 and 7, also carried Dr. Turkevich's spectrometer.
Because of the high titanium findings, his results were greeted with widespread skepticism. But Dr. Turkevich was vindicated when the moon rocks brought back by Apollo 11 confirmed his discovery.
For the Mars Pathfinder mission in 1997, Dr. Turkevich and colleagues adapted his instrument into the Alpha Proton X-Ray Spectrometer, which analyzed rocks given fanciful names like Scooby-Doo and Yogi. It found that Mars and Earth were made up of similar materials, but in different proportions. The spectrometer will be carried next year on two more missions to Mars, said Thanasis Economou, a colleague of Dr. Turkevich at the Enrico Fermi Institute of Nuclear Studies at the University of Chicago. 
In World War II, Dr. Turkevich worked for the Manhattan Project, which built the atomic bomb, studying gaseous diffusion and measurements of radioactive fallout. 
After the war, he worked on the hydrogen bomb project, performing a calculation that demonstrated that such a bomb was not impossible. Dr. Turkevich conducted highly classified work concerning nuclear technology in the Soviet Union, and developed techniques to measure the spread of gases globally, according to Dr. George A. Cowan, senior fellow emeritus at Los Alamos National Laboratory. But in 1969 he also won the Atoms for Peace Award, given to scientists who develop ways to use atomic energy for peaceful purposes. 
He worked with the physicist Enrico Fermi to calculate the proportion of the elements generated in the Big Bang, concluding that it was 25 percent helium to 75 percent hydrogen. 
Anthony Leonid Turkevich was born on July 23, 1916, at the bishop's house attached to St. Nicholas Russian Orthodox Cathedral on East 97th Street in Manhattan. His father, as Metropolitan Leonty, became the primate of the Russian Orthodox Church in the United States.
Dr. Turkevich earned his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth and his doctorate from Princeton, both in chemistry. After the war, he worked at the University of Chicago until he became professor emeritus in 1986. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1967.
He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Ireene; a son, Leonid, of Alpharetta, Ga.; a daughter, Darya Carney of Grand Rapids, Mich.; a brother, Nicholas, of West Fairlee, Vt.; and three grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony L. Turkevich (University of Chicago) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPECTROSCOPES & SPECTROMETERS (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICS (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (86%); RELIGION (83%); CHEMISTRY (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (75%); NUCLEAR CHEMISTRY (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); WORLD WAR II (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%) EARTH'S MOON (96%); MARS (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (86%); NEW MEXICO, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Astronautics and Aeronautics 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



558 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Harvard President Sees Rise In Anti-Semitism on Campus 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Harvard University's president, Lawrence H. Summers, used a quiet prayer meeting on the first day of classes here this week to condemn what he termed growing anti-Semitism at Harvard and elsewhere. 
 But while he labeled his remarks unofficial, they are setting off ripples on this campus, where students and professors have demanded that Harvard remove all Israeli investments from its endowment. 
 While Mr. Summers has drawn praise in some quarters for taking a stand, some in the academic community accused him of shutting off discussion. 
"We are essentially being told there can be no debate," said John Assad, an assistant professor of neurobiology at Harvard medical school who signed the Harvard divestment petition. "This is the ugliest statement imaginable to paint critics as anti-Semitic."
Others, however, praised Mr. Summers for stepping into the debate. 
"His remarks were very important," said Abraham H. Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League. "What's frightening is that we've been seeing the rise in anti-Semitism again, and there are so few people willing to stand up and say anything."
Mr. Summers, who described himself in his speech as "Jewish, identified but hardly devout," declined to comment today, saying he wanted his remarks to stand on their own.
In his morning prayer address on Tuesday in Memorial Church, Mr. Summers said he saw anti-Semitic actions on the rise in academic communities around the world. 
"Serious and thoughtful people are advocating and taking actions that are anti-Semitic in their effect if not their intent," said Mr. Summers, referring both to the push for divestment and to actions by student organizations at Harvard and other campuses to raise money for groups found to have ties to terrorist groups. 
"Where anti-Semitism and views that are profoundly anti-Israeli have traditionally been the primary preserve of poorly educated right-wing populists," he added, "profoundly anti-Israel views are increasingly finding support in progressive intellectual communities."
His speech, which was reported first in The Harvard Crimson, is posted on Mr. Summers's Web site, president.harvard.edu/speeches.
Mr. Summers is known for his outspokenness. In the last year, he has been in a public dispute with several members of Harvard's Afro-American studies department. One professor, Cornel West, left Harvard for Princeton after Mr. Summers urged him, among others, to serve as a leader in tamping down grade inflation and encouraged him to focus more on his scholarly work.
Mr. Summers said on Tuesday that he was making his remarks "not as president of the university but as a concerned member of our community." 
But Taha Abdul-Basser, a graduate student in the department of Near Eastern languages and civilization and a member of the Harvard Islamic Society, questioned whether it was possible to separate the statements from the office.
"I understood his comment that he wished to be understood as an individual speaking, rather than as president, but I doubt that everyone who listened to the speech or read it will be able to make that distinction," Mr. Abdul-Basser said. "And I was saddened to see that evidently support of the divestment campaign was being equated with something as ugly as anti-Semitism. Some of the professors who supported the campaign said they saw a difference between the two, and I certainly do, too."
While Mr. Summers strongly rejected divestment, he affirmed the value of open debate and said he was not taking sides.
"There is much to be debated about the Middle East and much in Israel's foreign and defense policy that can be and should be vigorously challenged," he said in his speech.
Those caveats, however, did not persuade critics like Elizabeth Spelke, a psychology professor who also signed the divestiture petition.
"Labeling the petition anti-Semitic is a strategy to detract from the criticisms of Israel," Professor Spelke said. "It turns the substance of a political debate into a debate of morals and supposed racism."
But Eli Sprecher, a Harvard sophomore, said he welcomed Mr. Summers's willingness to speak out, saying: "He's not just the president of a university, he's the president of Harvard. If there's a pretty big issue, he should take a stand on it."
Mr. Sprecher said that Mr. Summers had made valid points about the divestment movement and that "comparing Israel to apartheid South Africa does border on anti-Semitism." 
Lawrence S. Bacow, president of nearby Tufts University, applauded Mr. Summers for his stand. "University presidents ought to raise important questions and I think he has," Mr. Bacow said, adding that he, too, was concerned about signs suggesting a rise in anti-Semitism on campuses.
Earlier this year, nearly 600 professors, students, staff members and alumni from Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, signed a petition urging Harvard and M.I.T. to divest from Israel. Similar efforts have been mounted at about 40 other universities.
The Harvard/M.I.T. petition said that "universities ought to use their influence -- political and financial -- to encourage the United States government and the government of Israel to respect the human rights of the Palestinians" by divesting from Israel and from American companies that sell arms to Israel. 
Others at Harvard and M.I.T. fought back with a petition opposing divestment.
In May, Mr. Summers declared that Harvard had "no intention" of divesting, adding, "Harvard is first and foremost a center of learning, not an institutional organ for advocacy on such a complex and controversial international conflict." 
In his remarks this week, Mr. Summers noted that his family had left Europe at the beginning of the 20th century. He said that for him, the Holocaust was "a matter of history, not personal memory" and that anti-Semitism "has been remote from my experience." 
Mr. Summers, who became Harvard's president in July 2001, concluded his speech by saying he hoped he was wrong in his assessment of a rise in anti-Semitism and also hoped that it proved "to be a self-denying prophecy -- a prediction that carries the seeds of its own falsification."
"But," he concluded, "this depends on all of us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence H. Summers, Harvard's president, has set off a stir. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); PETITIONS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); NEUROSCIENCE (69%); DIVESTITURES (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (62%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: EASTERN LANGUAGES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (56%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%) ARENSON, KAREN W; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



559 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Next, They'll Be Claiming That Their Wine Is Better 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Gov. Gray Davis might call it a rounding error, but France has regained its ranking as the world's fifth-largest economy, eking out a narrow margin over California.
 Mr. Davis is fond of boasting that under his leadership California's economy has risen from the world's seventh largest to fifth, passing France last year. 
 But because of a dive in the Internet economy and last year's energy crisis, California has fallen back to sixth place in gross domestic product, an analysis by the Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation shows.
The difference -- $1.310 trillion for France, $1.309 trillion for California -- is statistically all but meaningless. 
The world's largest economies are, in order, the United States, Japan, Germany and Britain. China is in seventh place.
Mr. Davis, who uses the fifth-largest-economy claim in advertisements and speeches, is not giving up.
"We will not surrender," said Gabriel Sanchez, a Davis spokesman.
Mr. Sanchez cited several other studies that showed California with a slight edge over the United States' oldest ally, saying: "California still ranks fifth in 2001 using the most recent data available. We're going to review World Bank data next month to confirm it."
"We will not surrender," he repeated. 
George Huang, an economist with the economic development group, said Mr. Davis was wrong to claim fifth place last year. The difference in the size of the two economies arose largely from fluctuations in the value of the European currency, the euro, Mr. Huang said. 
"We tried to give a sense of how big the economy is," he said. "It was never our intention for anyone to look at these rankings and take credit for it."
The French shrugged.
"We won't fight about numbers," said Valerie Luebken, a spokeswoman at the French Consulate here.
Ms. Luebken noted that Mr. Davis was engaged in a re-election campaign and that her boss was loath to take sides.
"The consul-general is really quite funny and would like to comment," she said. "But not now." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRENDS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) FRANCE; CALIFORNIA; JAPAN; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



560 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Facing the Limits of Law, and of Lawsuits 

BYLINE:  By Philip K. Howard; Philip K. Howard, a lawyer, is the author of "The Collapse of the Common Good" and "The Death of Common Sense."

 BODY:
When establishing the Victim Compensation Fund last year, Congress foresaw a potential legal nightmare. It thus imposed one condition before victims of the Sept. 11 attacks could receive money from the fund: They had to waive their right to sue anyone except the terrorists. But recent claims suggest that Congress did not go far enough. It should reconsider whether lawsuits arising over the events of Sept. 11, other than those against the terrorists, should be allowed at all.
 Last week, lawyers for one of the firms hardest hit by the attacks, Cantor Fitzgerald, issued a report claiming that the planned allocations of the fund are contrary to law. The family of a young trader should be given $5 million for lost income, they argue, not $3 million. The decision by the fund's special master, Kenneth Feinberg, to give every family an additional $250,000 for pain and suffering, they say, is "woefully inadequate." 
 So far, some 30 families have filed lawsuits against the airlines (claiming they should have done more to stop the terrorists) and against the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (alleging it should have better evacuated the buildings). Hundreds of the families are considering similar claims. The City of New York has been hit with over 1,500 claims, including 1,200 by firefighters who argue that their equipment was inadequate to protect them. These claims alone total $9 billion.
There is no logical limit to these lawsuits, or indeed, to others that readily could be brought. Nearby residents also suffered significant damages. Probably millions of people in the region breathed air with toxins. Businesses in New York suffered huge losses. Thousands across the country lost their jobs. Why shouldn't they be able to sue?
The moral authority of the victims' families is overwhelming. No one even wants to argue with them, much less deny them anything. But it is beyond the capacity of litigation to produce a just or fair result here. Dollars can support a family but can't ever make up for the loss.
Some victims say they seek not money but the truth. One widow who lost her husband on a hijacked United Airlines flight has said that, by filing a lawsuit, she hoped to reduce the chances of another attack. She knew she couldn't bring her husband back, she said, but the lawsuit gave her "a new purpose and a goal in mind, something to hold onto and to fight for." But what happened here is not a mystery: terrorists exploited the conventions of an open and free society to commit an act of mass murder.
Allowing this litigation comes at a high cost to society. The airlines employ tens of thousands of workers and are integral to the national and world economy. Is it in our common interest to drive them out of business? Billions sought from the City of New York would come out of schools, health care and other common services. Is that fair?
Perhaps the greatest cost of allowing these claims, as we teeter on the edge of decades of litigation, is to the fabric of our culture. The recriminations are potentially endless. Open the door to litigation over fairness after a mass tragedy, and no one will ever be satisfied. Bitterness has already begun to fester. Why should the family of a bond trader receive $3 million, asks the family of a kitchen worker, when they receive only a fraction of that? The harder we strive to satisfy each person's claim to fairness, the greater will be the perceptions of unfairness. What about deserving victims elsewhere, like the father who drowned last year while saving three children from the flooded Mississippi? Is his family less deserving than that of someone who happened to work at the World Trade Center?
There is no right answer, no point of true justice, no correct box to fill in. On behalf of society, someone must simply make a choice. This is the proper job of the special master.
For casualties of war, Congress has prescribed a set schedule of benefits. Among other modest benefits like a gravestone and funeral costs, the family of a soldier lost in war gets a "death gratuity" of $6,000, the proceeds of a life insurance policy of as little as $200,000 and a pension for widows of at least $10,000 per year. No lawsuits are permitted, even if the decision of the commanding officers was negligent or a piece of equipment failed. The families get an American flag to honor the loved ones who died to protect our freedom.
An important lesson of Sept. 11 is that Americans must come together and face the future with a new awareness of our risks and responsibilities. Descending into a pit of litigation and recrimination cannot satisfy the families of victims; their loss can never be satisfied. But this litigation will harm all of society.
One of the virtues of law is finality. To focus our energies on the future, Congress must bar civil litigation seeking to place blame for the devastating events of the past. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); LITIGATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); LAWYERS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); DISMISSALS (63%) TERRORISM; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: HOWARD, PHILIP K 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



561 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Federal Deficit Deepened Last Month 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
While the government ran a smaller budget gap last month than in August a year ago, the year-to-date deficit climbed over $200 billion with one month left in the fiscal year, the Treasury Department said today.
 The Treasury said the government posted a $54.71 billion deficit last month, down from the $79.99 billion shortfall of August 2001. The number was in line with forecasts by private and government analysts. 
 Revenue was up slightly in comparison with August 2001, while outlays fell sharply. Both reflected one-time factors in the timing of federal benefit payments and income tax rebate checks in August 2001.
With one month to go, the budget remains on track to post its first deficit since 1997. Through August, the government was $200.18 billion in the red, a reversal of the $91.77 billion surplus in the period last year.
The government's fiscal year ends on Sept. 30. The White House's Office of Management and Budget has said it anticipates a $165 billion deficit for the year, while the Congressional Budget Office is projecting a slightly smaller gap of about $157 billion.
The switch from surplus to deficit has led to political wrangling in Washington. The Bush administration has blamed several factors, including a decline in revenue from a sluggish economy and increased spending for security and the war on terrorism. Democrats have said the reversal is largely a result of the 10-year, $1.35 trillion tax cut that started going into effect last year.
Through the first 11 months of the budget year, government revenue totaled $1.661 trillion, down 9.4 percent from a year ago. The major revenue channels -- personal and corporate income taxes -- have both fallen sharply. Personal income tax collections have dropped 16 percent while business taxes are off 18.4 percent.
Federal spending has increased at the same time, rising 6.9 percent to $1.861 trillion through August. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); TAX RELIEF (75%); TERRORISM (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



562 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Not Enough Bidders for Bond Auction in Japan 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Japan failed to receive enough bids for its 10-year bond auction today, in a clear sign of investors' skepticism and confusion over the direction of Japanese economic policy.
 The surprising results -- the first time the benchmark 10-year issue was undersubscribed since the Ministry of Finance began its auction system in 1989 -- sent stock and bond prices falling and the yen tumbling. In New York, the yen ended at 123.35 to the dollar, compared with 121.42 on Thursday. 
 "It's a horribly embarrassing thing for the government to not be able to run an auction," said John Richards, a fixed-income strategist at Barclays Capital in Tokyo. 
The auction came just two days after the central bank said that it planned to buy stocks from banks to try to support a shaky financial system. But the announcement, a startling policy reversal by the Bank of Japan, served only to sow confusion among investors uncertain how the government intended to bolster a recovery and combat deflation. The central bank usually invests in cash and government debt. 
"No one expected the Bank of Japan to surprise the market," Mr. Richards said. 
The shortfall of bids will not put the government's ability to raise funds at risk, Takahira Ogawa, head of Standard & Poor's Asian sovereign rating team, said today, but "it does highlight the uncertainty among investors."
"Policy disputes among the Ministry of Finance, Bank of Japan and Financial Services Agency have reached an impasse, to the detriment of investor confidence," he said. 
The bond market setback eerily echoed the plot of a best-selling novel in Japan more than a year ago. The book, "Nihon Kokusai," or "Japanese Government Bonds," tells of a group of frustrated bond traders who conspire to create a crisis by boycotting an auction of 1.4 trillion yen ($11.5 billion) worth of 10-year government bonds. In the novel, released in January 2001, the traders hope that a market collapse will force the government into needed reforms.
Today's reluctance among investors had little to do with intrigue. Many of them say the central bank and the government have not clearly explained their policies to help the banks and bolster the economy. Indeed, the Bank of Japan has not announced how it will pay for its purchases, leading investors to envision two potentially negative courses for the bond market.
In one case, the government would issue more debt to finance the central bank's equity purchases, adding more supply to the market and depressing prices. Also, the Bank of Japan might might buy fewer bonds so it can pay for the stocks.
The central bank's announcement and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's renewed promises to push Japan's banks to write off nonperforming loans may also signal, longer term, an end to the grinding deflation that has eroded corporate profits and economic prospects. If investors believe the economy and inflation will start to grow, they might start dumping bonds in favor of stocks.
In today's auction, the Ministry of Finance tried to sell 1.8 trillion yen ($14.8 billion) of 10-year bonds with a coupon rate of 1.2 percent. Of the bonds sold to individuals, the government received bids worth just 88 percent of the amount auctioned. By contrast, the government at its last auction received bids worth 2.5 times the amount of bonds for sale. The unsold bonds will be sold to a syndicate of financial institutions, the Ministry of Finance said.
The poor result pushed the yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond up 10.5 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 1.285 percent, ending a month-long rally in prices that at one point pushed yields below 1 percent. 
The confusion in the market was compounded because banks, the largest buyers of government debt at most auctions, have moved to the sidelines before the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Many banks want to sell their bonds to offset losses on their equity holdings. Any remaining cash has moved into short-term government bills and notes.
"You always get a certain amount of profit taking from banks at this time of year," said Graeme Knowd, the director of credit research at UBS Warburg Securities.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Masaru Hayami, the governor of the Bank of Japan, at a news briefing in Tokyo, where a government 10-year bond auction was undersubscribed. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C3) Graph: "CURRENCIES" tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since April 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (92%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); TRENDS (77%); DEFLATION (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); SOVEREIGN RISK (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); BESTSELLERS (63%); LITERATURE (63%); INTEREST RATES (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



563 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Life Insurers Feel the Strain of Shaky Markets 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
The nation's life insurance companies are straining under a welter of new financial burdens, even as Americans -- shaken by terrorist attacks and the slumping stock market -- sign up for life insurance in increasing numbers. 
 On Thursday, Fitch Ratings, one of the main companies that measure the financial strength of corporations, lowered its ratings on 35 life insurance groups representing scores of companies, some of which had already suffered reductions in their ratings. Among the companies whose ratings fell were giants like Metropolitan Life, Hartford Life, Guardian, Jefferson Pilot and Manufacturers Life. 
 The downgrades jolted the industry and worried customers. Indeed, many insurance executives said that although it was unlikely that any major companies would fail, the life insurance business was in its worst shape in a decade. 
"Consumers are seeing the insurance companies having trouble, and they're asking, 'Is this company going to be in business when I need them,' " said Byron J. Udell, the chief executive of AccuQuote, an online insurance broker.
The companies are suffering to a large degree because variable annuities and variable life insurance -- two products tied to the stock market and aggressively marketed in the 1990's -- have plummeted in value and in popularity.
And like all insurance companies, the life insurers have watched their own portfolios decline as stock markets and interest rates decline. Many of the insurers also suffered billions of dollars in losses when companies like Enron, WorldCom and Global Crossing defaulted on bonds, and analysts said several billion more in bonds may be at risk. 
Analysts hasten to add that the industry remains financially strong and that the downgrades are not likely to lead to significant increases in the price of life insurance. None of the companies downgraded Thursday fell below Fitch's highest group of ratings, ranging from AAA to A-, said Michael J. Barry, a managing director of the agency. 
But Mr. Barry said that any downward shift signaled a weakening in financial strength. And consumer advocates say that is cause for concern. 
"When you see downgrades, that's a red flag," said J. Robert Hunter, director for insurance at the Consumer Federation of America. "I wouldn't buy a policy from a company that's been downgraded. If you already have a policy and the company is downgraded, I wouldn't panic. But if it gets a second downgrade or it looks like a third may be coming, then you ought to seriously consider shifting to another company." 
All of the companies that were downgraded dropped one level except for John Hancock Financial; American Scandia Life, which deals almost entirely in variable annuities and mutual funds; and Canada Life Assurance. They each dropped two levels. 
Several of the companies said they were disappointed by the downgrades, and suggested that Fitch was underestimating their intrinsic strength.
"There are negative trends in the industry that they have tarred the whole industry with," said Brian Lynch, a vice president for investor relations at Canada Life, which sells life insurance and investment products in Canada, the United States and Europe. "They're not giving, I think, sufficient likelihood that some companies will be able to climb over those problems or earn their way through them."
The financial strains on the life insurers are coming at a time when increasing numbers of Americans are turning to life insurance for the first time in 20 years. Life insurance sales began rising after the Sept. 11 attacks and, according to LIMRA International, an industry research organization, are up 4 percent for the first half of this year. Sales had been declining since 1983. 
In recent years, more than half of the life insurers' sales revenues had been coming from variable annuities, an investment product that combines elements of insurance with the industry's version of a mutual fund. Variable annuities became popular in the 1990's because they allowed customers to jump aboard the booming stock market through the mutual fund component while guaranteeing that their principal would be preserved for their heirs through one of the insurance features. 
But now, with the markets in negative territory for a third year, customers for variable annuities and their close cousin, variable life insurance, are scarce. Net sales of variable annuities dropped to $29.9 billion in 2001, down from $43.9 billion in the previous year, according to the National Association for Variable Annuities.
In Norman, Okla., Mickey Mann, who has been a broker for 35 years, said variable annuities and variable life insurance sales accounted for 25 percent of his business while the markets were hot. "But I have not sold a variable product this year," he said.
It is not just that customers are shying away from new variable annuities. They are also cashing in their old ones in droves. Colin Devine, an insurance analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, estimates that $15 billion was pulled out of variable annuities last year and he anticipates withdrawal of an additional $25 billion this year. Over all, Americans had $829.5 billion invested in variable annuities at the end of June, down from a peak of more than $1 trillion in early 2000.
The insurers make money on variable annuities by charging a fee on the amount invested. Their fees have been diminishing as withdrawals have increased and as the market has shrunk the value of the investments.
But variable annuities are hurting the insurance companies in other ways. Because variable annuities combine participation in the stock market with a so-called death benefit that preserves the investor's principal, the insurance companies find themselves on the hook now that many annuities are worth less than their initial investments. 
There are no comprehensive statistics on how much the insurers have had to pay in death benefits, but analysts estimate that insurers' liabilities run into the billions. To make sure that money to pay death benefits is there if needed, state regulators across the country are forcing the insurers to increase their reserves to match their rising liabilities. By setting aside greater reserves, the insurers decrease their net earnings and their ability to increase capital, a key to maintaining high ratings.
Mr. Devine of Salomon Smith Barney estimates that the insurers doubled their reserves for the death benefits last year and then doubled them again in the last six months to a total of about $1.5 billion. To raise new capital, Mr. Devine said, some companies are issuing bonds. Others are selling off real estate holdings. 
In one sense, market anxieties have benefited the life insurers. They have driven investors toward fixed annuities, which are twice as profitable for insurers as variable annuities. But the increase in sales of fixed annuities requires companies to set aside even more money in reserves. 
"You have literally billions and billions of dollars moving from variable accounts to fixed accounts, and the insurance industry has to come up with hundreds of millions of dollars in capital to meet the reserve requirements," said Jon A. Boscia, chief executive of the Lincoln Financial Group, whose ratings were affirmed by Fitch at AA. "Those that can't come up with the capital are having their ratings downgraded."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mickey Mann, right, an insurance broker in Norman, Okla., reviews a policy with Ken Kelly. Mr. Mann said the demand for variable annuities, which are tied to the stock market, had dried up. (Jerry Laizure for The New York Times) Chart: "Warning Signs"The life insurance industry is under increasing financial strain, causing a raft of recent rating downgrades by Fitch Ratings, a leading evaluator of the financial strength of companies. Graph compares the credit ratings of life insurance companies on and before Sept. 19. (Source: Fitch Ratings)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (97%); LIFE INSURANCE (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); ANNUITIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (88%); HIJACKING (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); VARIABLE LIFE INSURANCE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); TRENDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); AIRLINES (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%) LIFE INSURANCE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; ANNUITIES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%); JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FITCH RATINGS 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



564 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: The New Jersey Ethicist 

BYLINE:  By BILL KELLER; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

 BODY:
As the senior senator representing a large Northeastern state, I am often offered little presents from constituents -- a TV, a couple of Italian suits, a grandfather clock, a little jewelry for the girlfriend. What can I say? People just feel a special gratitude. Not long ago one constituent flipped out and started blabbing to the feds and the press. Now I'm up for re-election, and my opponent can't talk about anything else except my so-called ethics. ANONYMOUS, WASHINGTON 
 First, let's look on the bright side. The fact that you're running for re-election means you're probably not in a federal slammer. I'm guessing you got the equivalent of a manicure from the Ethics Committee. And your voters are Democrats, am I right? Jeez, they forgave the Clintons. So you're sitting pretty if you can ride it out a few more weeks. Now, a guy like you, I'm assuming you've still got a lot of friends. Take their money, buy a zillion hours of TV time, and change the subject. You could change the subject to corporate sleaze, but that's a little close to home, or you could change the subject to foreign policy but, c'mon, who cares? No, my recommendation is, change the subject to what a scary guy your opponent is. Never mind if he's a harmless, pro-choice moderate. Say he'll bring back coat-hanger abortions! He'll poison your water! He'll run an S.U.V. over your grandmother! Find some sweet-looking housewife who's willing to say she's proud of you. (I don't care what the polls say. There must be one somewhere.) Oh, and put some flags in. As for the press, my advice to you: stonewall, Jackson. 
 I'm the other senator from that large Northeastern state. I got elected on a platform of being beholden to no one, mainly because I'm richer than God and I don't have to act like a small-time graft artist. In other words, I got elected for not being that guy. Now my staff says I should stay clear of the senior senator so the slime doesn't rub off, and anyway he only likes me for my money. But the truth is, the man pulled all sorts of wires to get me nominated, so I owe him big time. On top of which, we're looking at 51-to-49 here in the Senate, which means if Senator I-Left-My-Wallet-in-My-Other-Pants gets beat in November, the other team might actually control the place. I didn't spend $63 million of my own money to sit in the cheap seats. Should I campaign for the guy? ANONYMOUS, WASHINGTON
Let me tell you what it's all about. Family. It's all about family. Next time around, are you going to spend another 63 extra-large of your own money to keep your nice job? No, you're going to trust the family to provide. Are you going to turn to the Republicans when you want your helping of pork for the folks back home? Of course not. The family will take care of it. You trust only blood. Well, blood and hard money.
When I was the governor of a large Northeastern state, I had a reputation as someone who cared about nice open green spaces. Now I run a big agency in Washington that's supposed to protect the environment, but the people I work for want to make my state the capital of toxic waste and acid rain. Am I being used? ANONYMOUS, WASHINGTON
Of course you are, Lady Marmalade. The real question is, are you being compensated? How's the song go? "Hey sister, soul sister, better get that dough, sister." I'm guessing you're in the very low six figures, and you're not getting any younger. Give it six months more, and then go to work as a lobbyist for a nice pesticide company. It's the same job, but it pays a lot better, and you don't have to pretend.
Last semester, when I was a junior at an Ivy League university in a large Northeastern state, I managed to hack into the econ department computer and download the final exam. Long story short, the school investigated and found the test in my laptop. I explained that I was merely testing the security of the computer system, and that no one was hurt. (Au contraire, I aced the exam!) They expelled me anyway. Then over the summer I read that the university admissions director was caught snooping in the computer of a rival school. Did they throw HIM into the Gulag? No, they transferred him to another office. Life is, like, so unfair! ANONYMOUS, PRINCETON, N.J.
I'm not an Ivy League kind of guy, but I appreciate the fine moral sense your education has instilled in you. I've taken the liberty of referring your name to a securities broker of my acquaintance, who will be contacting you about career opportunities.
I'm an aging rock 'n' roll singer from a large Northeastern state -- actually, the critics usually call me a working-class poet, or, you know, a troubadour. Anyway, just when my career was starting to look like endless gigs of recycled oldies, I cut a new album about the Sept. 11 thing, and it took off like, you know, a last-chance power drive. Hey, I got the covers of Time and Rolling Stone, I got MTV and "Saturday Night Live," the "Today" show gave me the whole program, Letterman had me on two nights in a row -- I even had back-to-back shows with Koppel, the get-down king of late night. My record shot up to No. 1 on Billboard. But somehow it left me feeling, you know, forlorn -- like an ice cream truck on a deserted street, if you know what I mean. When I sit in my 19th-century farmhouse, gazing out at the organic crops, I wonder: am I climbing up the charts on the backs of all those dead people? ANONYMOUS, ASBURY PARK, N.J.
You bleeding hearts kill me. You cashed in on the big attack? Like everybody else didn't? How many books got sold? How many careers got a bump? Americans understand that you can't let a good tragedy go to waste. What's that the president said? If somebody doesn't make a buck off it, the bad guys win, right? Allow me to quote my favorite moral philosopher, Karl Rove. Remember what he told Republican candidates back in June? "Focus on war." (O.K., he's no troubadour, but the man gets to the point.) D'you think he meant, "Let's all focus on the war and have a moment of silence and feel blue?" Of course not, knucklehead, he meant, "Take the war, and run the wussy Democrats into the ground with it." So you've got nothing to feel bad about. Then again, maybe you can do something with this. How about a new album about how bad you feel about that last album? Hey, you could call it "The Writhing."
I'm the C.E.O. of a large family-run organization specializing in waste management. Lately we've had to do some serious downsizing, and there's been a lot of bad feeling in the organization. I don't mind admitting it all makes me depressed sometimes. My shrink says I feel guilty and should get out of the business. On top of that, my wife is on my case about laying aside more money for the future, as if I'm some kind of deadbeat don. ANONYMOUS, NORTH CALDWELL, N.J.
Tell your shrink, guilty's not a feeling, it's a verdict. Until you've heard it from a jury of your peers and then exhausted all your appeals right up to the Supreme Court, put that word away. Look, business is business, and if you want to make an omelet you've got to break some eggs. My second favorite moral philosopher, "Chainsaw Al" Dunlap, put it this way: "To hell with harmony." Now, about the wife. The other night I was reading my kid this book, "If You Give a Mouse a Cookie." It's all about how people are never satisfied, you give 'em a piece of you and they won't stop until they've squeezed you empty. As I see it, the moral of the book is, when that mouse comes around, give him a dose of D-Con. I think you follow what I'm saying here.
I'm a voter who lives in a large Northeastern state --
Say no more, pal. You don't need an ethicist. You need an anesthetist.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); ABORTION (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%) ETHICS; FINANCES 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (SEN); CHANG, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



565 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Bhopal Seethes, Pained and Poor 18 Years Later 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

DATELINE: BHOPAL, India 

 BODY:
Eighteen years after thousands of people died here in a cloud of gas, the only monument to their memory is a rain-worn statue of a mother holding a baby and covering her face as another child hides behind her skirts.
 No one knows for sure what caused the lethal leak of methyl isocyanate from a Union Carbide pesticide plant in October 1984, and no one knows for sure how many people died. 
 Shamshad Begum, however, thinks she knows who is responsible. She lost her 6-year-old son, Raja, on Dec. 3, 1984, and says of the man she blames, "If I see him, I'll physically crush him."
That man is Warren Anderson, the former chief executive of Union Carbide Corporation, now a subsidiary of the Dow Chemical Company. Mr. Anderson has been living a low-profile retirement on Long Island and in Florida. But on a Bhopal wall, across the street from the plant site, he is remembered with neatly painted words: "Hang Anderson." 
When Mr. Anderson came to Bhopal just after the disaster in 1984, he was detained by Indian authorities, then released on bail. He left the country and has not returned. For nearly two decades, a group of victims has pursued him with the relentlessness of the Furies. They have helped keep alive a court case that the Indian government would happily have seen die.
The government sought to downgrade the charges against Mr. Anderson, now 81, from culpable homicide to a nonextraditable offense, but last month a court refused. The government then said it would pursue extradition, but few think it will succeed. Beyond the legal hurdles, India's fear of discouraging foreign investment must also be overcome.
Defending Mr. Anderson's response to the gas leak, his lawyer, William Krohley, said: "He went to India when he first heard about the disaster to help. There's absolutely no connection between anything he did personally and the events that took place in Bhopal 18 years ago."
That view was echoed recently by Mr. Anderson's wife, Lillian, who answered the door at the couple's home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. Saying events had been "all misrepresented in the press," Mrs. Anderson told a reporter, "This is something that happened 20 years ago and was taken care of."
But here in Bhopal, Mr. Anderson remains a foil, a prism of sorts through which to view the evolution of the victims. For some of the victims, compensation is the issue; for others, vengeance. Some have moved on; some seem frozen in 1984.
The victims were sleeping through a winter's night when the gas infiltrated their homes -- and lungs and eyes. Within days, some 3,000 people were dead. The official cause was "poisoning by irrespirable gases."
About 2,000 more deaths were directly attributed over the next few years to the leak, according to the Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief Department. By the official reckoning, 578,000 people were affected. That was the number finally awarded compensation by specially created claims tribunals.
Long before the antiglobalization movement gained prominence, and before chief executives in handcuffs became a news staple, Union Carbide became, for many, an emblem of the evils of multinationalism.
The company has always claimed that the leak was a result of sabotage, but no one has been charged. Instead, even as recently as the hearings on whether to downgrade the charges against Mr. Anderson, the evidence has pointed to poor safety procedures and maintenance. And the site, which still has not been cleaned up, may be leaking contaminants into local groundwater.
So to some, like Mrs. Begum, Mr. Anderson is an unforgivable loose end, a callous corporate criminal whose shoddily built plant poisoned loved ones as they slept.
But to others, Mr. Anderson is irrelevant. Akbar Khan Bundela, 52, said he had no interest in bringing back "Andersonji," using a term of respect. "We will not get anything out of him being punished," he said.
What Mr. Bundela and other victims want, he said, is the rest of the money awarded by Union Carbide. The company paid the government $470 million to settle the victims' claims. Yet only about half of it has been distributed, in most cases at $550 per recipient. Quite literally adding insult to injury, some tribunal officials extracted bribes from victims for processing their claims.
Other efforts, too, have fallen short. The Indian government has spent nearly $70 million on rehabilitation, much of it on 200 new buildings to help with the victims' medical and economic rehabilitation. 
But a number of the buildings are shuttered or underused. Industrial estates and work sheds meant to provide employment have mostly been closed or given over to other uses. Fewer than 100 victims have been given jobs through government efforts, victims' advocates say.
Mr. Bundela and Mrs. Begum both live in a "gas victims' colony" built by the government. With 1,500 conjoined houses, archways and rough-hewn brick streets, it has the feel of a medieval village where survivors are eternally stitched together in a community of loss, isolated from the city and therefore from work.
For 18 frustrating years, they have watched an enormous medical-industrial complex, including six government hospitals, being created in their name. Along the way there have been allegations of malfeasance and corruption, and windfalls for contractors.
"This incident was a tragedy for some people, and an opportunity for others," said Abdul Jabbar, who runs the Bhopal Women Gas Victims' Industrial Association.
Union Carbide, too, built a hospital, at a cost of over $40 million, selling off its Indian assets to do so. Opened two years ago, it is a gleaming white elephant on 87 acres on the city's outskirts, filled with the latest medical equipment but rarely more than half full.
The hospital's doctors and consultants had homes built on the grounds, along with a swimming pool. Over two years, the head of the trust overseeing the hospital's construction spent an average of $1,250 a day -- double the compensation most victims received -- on administration, including his own fees.
While costing a lot, the new hospitals have helped only a little. Many victims say they spent their compensation money on private doctors.
"This gas has reduced us to beggars," Amran Khan, a 45-year-old welder, said, as he lay in a bed in the Kamla Nehru Hospital. "Whatever we had, we sold to survive."
One difficulty for health care providers is the fact that long-term effects of the gas exposure remain unclear. A 1987 study of 370,000 people found that 30,000 had solid evidence of long-term injury, whether lung damage or neurological problems, but no study has been conducted since. The Indian government stopped recording disaster-related deaths in 1992, and ended long-term medical studies two years later.
Union Carbide, meanwhile, has never released the composition of the gas, citing trade secrets, which doctors said made understanding its effects more difficult.
Victims invoke the disaster just about every time they have an ailment, from heart disease to breathing trouble to Parkinson's disease. Bureaucrats and doctors have tended to be more skeptical, saying they believe victims have their eye on more compensation. They point out that more than a million people applied for compensation -- far more people than lived in Bhopal at the time of the leak.
Some doctors say the victims' ailments have as much to do with poverty as with gas. One criticized groups like Mr. Jabbar's for focusing on Mr. Anderson's extradition when victims fall prey to diarrhea because they lack clean water.
But Mr. Jabbar, who lost his father and brother, said he had no intention of letting the Anderson case die. 
He said that in years of activism he had discovered that even gas clouds can have silver linings. Activism around Bhopal's disaster had transformed women and brought them out of their houses.
Indeed, if Mr. Anderson's departure nags at Mrs. Begum, it energizes her, too. She travels to Delhi for protests, pumps her fist in the air and chants "Hang Anderson!" 
Keeping the "Hang Anderson" campaign alive, Mr. Jabbar said, kept the women's voices alive, too.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about continuing health and social problems in Bhopal, India, 18 years after the deaths of thousands of people in the poisonous gas leak there, misstated the date of the accident. It was December 1984, not October.



GRAPHIC: Photos: A statue, left, marks the site of the Bhopal disaster in which Shamshad Begum lost her son, Raja, 6. She leads protests seeking a trial for Union Carbide's former chairman, now in the United States. (Photographs by Amy Waldman) Map of India highlighting Bhopal: In October 1984, a gas leak at a plant in Bhopal killed thousands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POISONINGS (78%); GAS LEAKS (78%); EXTRADITION (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); PESTICIDES (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (76%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); LITIGATION (70%); MANSLAUGHTER (69%); HOMICIDE (69%); BAIL (66%); LAWYERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (54%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%) PESTICIDES; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; METHYL ISOCYANATE; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: UNION CARBIDE CORP (83%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNION CARBIDE CORP 

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (69%); DOW (NYSE) (69%); DOW (LSE) (69%); 4850 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%) SIC2869 OTHER INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS; 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; ANDERSON, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) BHOPAL (INDIA); INDIA

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



566 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Leader Faces Questions Over North Korea Meeting 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan, facing criticism from news organizations at home instead of the praise he expected after his recent summit meeting in North Korea, has made two statements about high-profile issues involving North Korea almost as afterthoughts. 
 On Thursday, Mr. Koizumi said that North Korea had pledged to allow international nuclear inspectors into the country to ensure that plutonium from atomic reactors was not being diverted to make weapons. 
 Such a commitment would satisfy one of the most important demands the United States has made of North Korea, and be a major step forward in nuclear efforts to stop the spread of nuclear weapons in East Asia. 
Doubts were immediately raised about the reported promise, however, because the joint communique signed by Japan and North Korea on Tuesday makes no mention of nuclear inspectors, and neither Mr. Koizumi nor numerous other Japanese officials who briefed reporters during the one-day summit meeting mentioned such a pledge by North Korea. 
The furthest the final communique goes on the subject is to say that "both sides confirm that, for an overall resolution of the nuclear issues on the Korean peninsula, they would comply with all related international agreements." 
Then, in a television interview that will be broadcast on Sunday, Mr. Koizumi said that President Bush told him when the two men spoke by telephone after the summit meeting that he would reconsider dialogue with North Korea. 
"I said on the phone to President Bush, that, I had taken up the subject of 'axis of evil' remarks" with Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, "but at the same time, President Bush should open a road to dialogue," Mr. Koizumi was quoted as saying. "Then President Bush said he would consider this seriously."
Mr. Koizumi's comments in the television interview related his telephone conversation with Mr. Bush after his return from his landmark meeting in North Korea. They were released by his office.
But the White House had a different version of events, saying that Mr. Koizumi had informed the president about his trip to North Korea, but that Mr. Bush did not indicate any imminent changes of policy.
For weeks now White House officials have said they are looking for an opportunity to send a senior official to North Korea, and it seems likely that James A. Kelly, the assistant secretary of state who handles East Asia, may be headed there in coming months. 
But a senior administration official said that Mr. Koizumi's trip "has not altered our strategy," and that there was no discussion of dropping North Korea from the list of countries making up the "axis of evil" that Mr. Bush described in his State of the Union speech in January: Iraq, Iran and North Korea.
For two weeks before the meeting, Mr. Koizumi's government had repeatedly stated that getting a complete accounting of the fates of 11 Japanese believed kidnapped by North Korea since the 1970's would determine whether relations could be normalized between the two countries after 54 years. 
Upon arrival in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, Mr. Koizumi learned that 6 of the 11 were long dead, and another was missing. North Korean authorities revealed that two Japanese whose disappearance was unknown to their government had also died in North Korea, where abducted Japanese were reportedly employed to train North Korean spies in their language and culture. Japan said today that one more person, believed kidnapped in 1978, had been identified and was still alive. 
Though still visibly shocked by the news of the deaths, Mr. Koizumi addressed reporters during a news conference in Pyongyang and said that Japan would go ahead with normalization talks with North Korea. In the meantime, North Korea has committed itself to extending a moratorium on missile testing, while Japan has officially apologized for 35 years of brutal colonial rule of Korea and pledged to provide a large, but unspecified, financial aid package to a neighbor, whose economy is near collapse. 
The agreement has been vigorously attacked by Japanese news organizations, as has been the government's slowness in releasing details about deceased abductees. Some editorials have said that Mr. Koizumi should have walked out of the talks when he learned that most of the missing were dead. 
Still, the first polls since Mr. Koizumi signed the agreement with North Korea showed strong support for the prime minister. Some indicated that nearly 90 percent of respondents believe that the summit diplomacy was a good idea. 
Mr. Koizumi said as much today: "I still believe my judgment was not wrong. It was appropriate. It is natural that there are positive, negative and various other opinions in this free, democratic country." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (61%) KIDNAPPING; ATOMIC ENERGY; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); KIM JONG IL (57%) FRENCH, HOWARD W; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



567 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DISSENT; 
Some in Congress, Recalling Vietnam, Oppose War

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
In a city where the talk is of when, not if, there will be war with Iraq, a small group of Democratic die-hards in the House is trying to rally opposition to military action.
 Two dozen or so mainly liberal lawmakers say they view the current moves toward war through the prism of their memories of Vietnam. Though they may be viewed as outside the mainstream of even their own party, they are raising their voices against an invasion, even if their leadership is not. 
 "I am very skeptical of this whole operation and have the feeling that it has much more to do with oil than anything else," said Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington, who added that his experiences as a Navy psychiatrist treating Vietnam veterans remained fresh in his mind. 
Mr. McDermott and 18 fellow House members stood on the terrace of the Cannon House Office Building this week to proclaim their opposition to what they view as a potential unprovoked assault on Iraq, without evidence that the nation poses a dire threat. At times, the session seemed reminiscent of past antiwar rallies, with the speakers warning of young Americans being sent to die on foreign soil and urging that the country "give peace a chance." 
"Naked aggression is not the American way," said Representative Marcy Kaptur, Democrat of Ohio, who sharply criticized the motives of the Bush administration. "America, wake up."
This week, these antiwar forces surveyed their Democratic colleagues on the House floor on the issue. Some spoke out against the war in a closed meeting of the Democratic caucus. They also met privately with Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the Democratic leader, to reinforce the idea that there was diverse opinion in the party on Iraq. 
The lawmakers say they are determined to show that not all members of Congress are falling in lock step behind the administration's call for authority to act against Iraq.
"We were not sent to Congress to be a rubber stamp," said Representative Barbara Lee, who represents traditionally antiwar areas around Berkeley and Oakland in Northern California and opposed authorizing use of force against terrorists after the Sept. 11 attacks. "The essence of our democracy is debate."
The opponents concede that momentum is not on their side, with Congress moving rapidly toward consideration of a resolution that would give the president authority to act against Iraq. Other Democrats say this group is a narrow wing of the caucus and hardly representative of the party's position on Iraq.
Some of the antiwar Democrats contend they have been marginalized by Mr. Gephardt, who has been supportive of President Bush on his call for action against Saddam Hussein. One of the Democrats urging caution on Iraq said their leader was letting a possible presidential run steer his course.
"I think he is making judgments for his own election campaign as opposed to what Democrats ought to be doing as a group here in Congress," said Representative Bob Filner, Democrat of California. "He is leading us in the wrong direction."
Aides to Mr. Gephardt said that he was committed to his own view on the issue but that he encouraged others to vote their conscience.
"Mr. Gephardt also appealed to the caucus not to question anyone's motives whether they are for or against military action," a spokesman, Eric Smith, said.
Though most Democrats in the emerging antiwar coalition are from safe districts, opposition to the president on this issue is not without political risks. Mr. Filner, for instance, said that fighting a resolution on Iraq could cost him in his San Diego district, which is home to many military personnel and retirees.
The Democrats, though, say they are hearing from constituents who want them to question the administration and the Congressional leadership on the rationale for action against Iraq.
"The people in my district are saying, 'Where are the Democrats, where is the opposition?' " said Representative Lynn Woolsey, another Northern California Democrat who said mail and calls from district residents were running 200 to 1 against a war with Iraq.
Most of the opponents say the administration's push for action could shatter international stability and leave the United States unable to credibly oppose first strikes by other nations.
"What moral authority will we have?" asked Representative Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, who said a pre-emptive attack could set a precedent that would lead to "international anarchy."
The Democrats also contend that the cost of the war will detract from priorities they say are more important to their communities, including drug coverage for older Americans and education.
"This attempt to foment a war is really against the best interests of America, it is against the spirit of the country, it is against the economic interests of the people," said Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, Democrat of Ohio and a leader of the opposition. 
The opponents often recall how the Gulf of Tonkin resolution, which in effect authorized the Vietnam war, was passed with little skepticism from Congress.
"I swore to myself that I was never going to be a Tonkin Gulf congressman," Mr. Filner said. "I think a lot of us have that going through our minds."
Mr. Kucinich also said he believed that Vietnam was a thread that linked the war opponents. He still has a flier from his 1972 campaign for Congress with the headline "Kucinich Says End the War."
He said the survey of Democrats found more resistance to a first strike across a wider spectrum of lawmakers than he initially expected. There have been quiet reservations expressed by Democrats close to the military who are hearing unease from the uniformed services. In the Senate, most Democratic criticism has focused on the wording of the administration's proposed resolution.
Mr. Kucinich has not given up hope of slowing the move toward possible war.
"The conductor might be yelling 'all aboard,' but the train hasn't left the station," he said. "This is an attempt to start a serious debate inside the party."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Dennis J. Kucinich reviewing binders of material on Iraq put together by his staff. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); VETERANS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); TERRORISM (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; VIETNAM WAR 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DENNIS KUCINICH (73%); JIM MCDERMOTT (73%); BARBARA LEE (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); MARCY KAPTUR (57%) HULSE, CARL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KUCINICH, DENNIS J (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



568 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Bush Receives Plans For War on Iraq
The Pentagon has completed and delivered to President Bush a detailed set of military options for attacking Iraq, Pentagon and White House officials said. The highly classified plans, which were presented to the Joint Chiefs of Staff shortly after the president was briefed, mark significant progress in the military's preparations for a possible war against Baghdad. A1

President Bush lobbied President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to support American action against Saddam Hussein, but the Kremlin said that Mr. Putin resisted the pressure and that his priority remained sending United Nations weapons inspectors back to Iraq. A9

Israel Renews Arafat Offensive
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel ordered another raid on Yasir Arafat's compound in Ramallah because of the recent suicide bombings in Tel Aviv. Mr. Arafat's headquarters were demolished except for one building. A1

Turk's Candidacy Barred
The leader of Turkey's Justice and Development Party and a former mayor of Istanbul, was barred from running in the Nov. 3 elections because of his conviction three years ago for reading a poem that a court said incited religious hatred. A6

Chinese AIDS Activist Freed
China's most prominent AIDS advocate, Dr. Wan Yanhai, was unexpectedly released after nearly a month's detention in Beijing. The release came after an international outcry over his arrest. The incident seems to have highlighted China's AIDS problem and has pressed the government to action. A1

Apology on Hitler Remark
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder wrote a personal letter to Mr. Bush apologizing for "the supposed remarks" of his justice minister, who is said to have compared Mr. Bush's political tactics over Iraq to those of Adolf Hitler. The minister, Herta Daubler-Gmelin, held a news conference at which she denied the comparison. A1

NATIONAL A12-13, 16

Bush Administration Backs Independent 9/11 Inquiry
The White House gave in to growing Congressional demands for an independent investigation of last year's attacks, setting the stage for a comprehensive inquiry into the failures and vulnerabilities that made the hijackings possible. A1

Iraq as a Campaign Issue
Republican Party officials say the prospect of weeks of Congressional debate on Iraq is letting them block Democrats from using domestic concerns as campaign issues. But the officials were also concerned that Republicans not be perceived as exploiting the talk of war for political gain. A1

Talk of Peace Barely Noticed
As the capital debates when, not if, to invade Iraq, a group of two dozen or so House Democrats is trying to rally opposition to military action. A9

Democrats to Pay Fines
The Democratic National Committee has agreed to pay civil fines and turn over $243,000 to the Treasury to settle charges of illegal foreign contributions during the 1990's. A13

United Way Appoints New Head
The troubled United Way of the National Capital Area named Robert Egger, one of Washington's best-known charity leaders, as its interim executive vice president. A13

Rise of Anti-Semitism Cited
Harvard University's president, Lawrence H. Summers, used a quiet prayer meeting on the first day of classes to condemn what he termed growing anti-Semitism at Harvard and elsewhere. A13

Charges in Hiker's Death
Two employees of a wilderness camp in central Utah have been charged with child-abuse homicide in the death two months ago of a 14-year-old boy on a hike in the desert. A13

A California Slip
An economic analysis shows that California has fallen to sixth place in a ranking of the world's largest economies, slightly behind France. A12

Religion Journal A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Race for Governor On Pace to Set Record
Reports indicated that the rancorous race for governor of New York is on a pace to be the most expensive nonpresidential campaign in American history, with more than $70 million spent with six weeks to go. B1

Judge Limits Louima Defense
A federal judge in Brooklyn made two rulings in the Abner Louima sexual assault case that limited the defense's options in the fourth trial of former police officer Charles Schwarz. B1

More Changing Stations Sought
Parents are applauding a bill that would require public places to install baby-changing stations. B1

FASHION B8

SPORTS D1-7

Mets Deny Drug Use
Mets General Manager Steve Phillips denied that the team was plagued by marijuana use. D1

Bloodstains on Dele Boat
Investigators found what they believe are bloodstains on the sailboat belonging to missing former NBA player Bison Dele. Police in Tahiti suspect that he and two others were murdered by his older brother. D4

ARTS & IDEAS B9-18

Hemingway Trove Access
The Cuban government has agreed to allow access to a trove of Ernest Hemingway's papers that experts say promises to illuminate the period in which he wrote some of his most significant works. B9

OBITUARIES B7

Anthony L. Turkevich
A scientist who was the first to determine what the moon is made of, he was 86. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Lilly to Pursue Diabetes Drug
Eli Lilly & Company will pay up to $325 million for the rights to a synthetic version of a compound from the venom of a poisonous lizard that could be an alternative to insulin injections for diabetics. C1

Tough Times for Life Insurers
Many Americans shaken by the slumping stock market are putting their money into life insurance, but the industry faces serious financial burdens. It was recently jolted when 35 insurance groups had their ratings downgraded. C1

Bond Auction Fails in Japan
Japan failed to receive enough bids for its 10-year bond auction, a clear sign of skepticism over the direction of Japanese economic policy. C1

Game Show to Enter Politics
FX, a cable channel owned by the News Corporation, intends to air a reality show that will let viewers choose the contestant they think is the best candidate for president. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Atonement in the boardroom; help for Palestinian reformers; housing the homeless mentally ill.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B17
TV Listings B18
Crossword B17
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); ARRESTS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); HIJACKING (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (76%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (76%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



569 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE POLITICS; 
G.O.P. Gains From War Talk But Does Not Talk About It

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL and ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Senior Republican Party officials say the prospect of at least two more weeks of Congressional debate on Iraq is allowing their party to run out the clock on the fall election, blocking Democrats as they try to seize on the faltering economy and other domestic concerns as campaign issues.
 At the same time, Republicans said that as they entered the final six weeks of contests in which control of Congress is at stake, they did not want to be perceived as exploiting the talk of war for political gain. They said they were urging candidates not to do anything that might give Democrats ammunition to turn the war issue against them. 
 The emerging dynamic has produced growing if quiet optimism among Republicans that they will be able to turn back the Democratic drive to take control of the House, if only because Democrats are running out of time to make their case.
Senator Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican who once led his party's campaign arm in the Senate, said, "I do believe the issue of terrorism and Iraq will be very much on the mind of voters going in to Election Day." 
Mr. McConnell noted that Republicans traditionally had a strong lead on national security issues.
Scott Reed, a Republican consultant, said: "The secret to the election now is to beat the clock. Every week, you can hear the ripping noise of another page of the calendar coming off the wall. Another week has gone by. And there's only six more to go."
Democrats, in contrast, are voicing frustration with the turn of events, even as they note that six weeks can be a long time in politics.
"Iraq is the only thing we're talking about right now," Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, recently said before Democrats finally decided that a swift vote on military action against Iraq was better for them.
If Congress did not act soon on Iraq, Mr. Breaux said: "It means we probably won't get to do anything else. And there are a lot of issues that need our attention."
A striking reminder of how the war talk has drowned out issues that Democrats believe work in their favor came on Thursday, when the Dow Jones average sunk to 7,940. That was the lowest it had been since last July, when many Democrats believed that the nation's fixation on a plummeting market and reports of corporate malfeasance were setting the stage for Democrats to win control of both houses of Congress.
Asked today if the latest dip on Wall Street drew the kind of coverage the last one did, a senior Democratic strategist responded with a glum e-mail message: "Not at all. War, war, war."
Republicans say the Iraq issue will not guarantee that they win control of the House and Senate. Several noted that they had made a point of rebutting Democrats who had tried to raise Social Security or prescription drug coverage as an issue.
Strategists on both sides said it was highly unlikely that the fate of any Congressional election would swing on a vote on the Iraq resolution. As of now, it appears that the resolution authorizing President Bush to use force against Saddam Hussein will pass with overwhelming bipartisan support.
The significance of the war debate, Republicans say, is that, by crowding out the issues Democrats wanted to talk about, it changed a race that had appeared to be shifting toward the Democrats in midsummer.
Several Republicans said the issue of corporate accountability, which had once been central to Democratic efforts, appears to have faded. The Iraq debate has also lifted Mr. Bush's poll ratings, and even Democrats said Congressional candidates could benefit because of that.
Still, Republicans said that any candidate perceived as using the war for political purposes was running a risk. "People do not view this as a partisan issue," said David Winston, who conducts polls for the House Republican conference, "and they do not want the political folks here in Washington treating it like a partisan issue."
The tension between the two conflicting forces -- the satisfaction with the political climate, set against the concern that Republicans not be seen as using a war to manipulate political races -- has been clear at the White House and on Capitol Hill.
In recent days, the White House has handed out to crucial Republicans in Congress a one-page summary of a published poll from its Office of Strategic Initiatives, which is run by Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, to underscore the president's wide and growing support.
"Americans say President acting to protect nation while Democrats playing politics," the document said.
On the other hand, Mr. Rove and Ken Mehlman, the White House political director, met with senior Republican Congressional leaders recently to draw up the party's political themes for the closing weeks of Congress, and barely mentioned Iraq.
For the most part, Democratic and Republican leaders said, candidates were steering clear of the issue, though there are notable exceptions. One is in South Dakota, where Senator Tim Johnson, a Democrat, is facing a strong challenge from Representative John Thune.
The Thune campaign mobilized military veterans to criticize Mr. Johnson's 1991 vote against authorizing Mr. Bush's father to wage the Persian Gulf war. The Johnson camp countered with veterans deploring that Mr. Thune was using war as a political cudgel. Mr. Bush's father entered the fray at a fund-raiser for Mr. Thune, where he said it was critical for Congress to support the president during a time of war.
In some other tight Senate races in conservative states, Republicans are not raising Iraq directly but focusing on military might and patriotism. In South Carolina, the Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee planned to start running a new television spot on Saturday upbraiding Democratic candidate Alex Sanders for not supporting a constitutional amendment against flag burning. "Burning the American flag, the flag our soldiers carry in to battle," the advertisement intones.
In Minnesota, Norm Coleman, the Republican challenger, has been attacking Senator Paul Wellstone by raising questions about his votes on national defense.
Still, Republicans say it is important not to cede the field on domestic issues, particularly because they expect the Democrats to hammer at the economy and issues like health care in a late campaign barrage of TV advertising directed at the relatively few seats in play.
"We need to keep talking about the economy and Republican ideas to further the economy," said Representative Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican close to President Bush.
Beyond that, Republicans acknowledge that many Democrats will neutralize the Iraq issue by supporting Mr. Bush. Representative Lindsey O. Graham, the Republican Senate candidate in South Carolina, said he would not be able to use Iraq against his opponent because he expected that "wherever I'm at, that's where he's at."
"If I said, Hang them by their feet, he'd say, Hang them by their feet," Mr. Lindsay said. "Ain't going to be a difference." 
Democratic strategists said today that they were confident that after the vote on Iraq, the ground would shift back to domestic issues.
"Obviously the Republican strategy is to prevent campaigns from ever getting back to a domestic message," said James M. Jordan, the executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); TERRORISM (52%); MISCONDUCT (50%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (50%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (78%) BREAUX, JOHN B (SEN); MITCHELL, ALISON; NAGOURNEY, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



570 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: SEEKING SUPPORT; 
Bush Lobbies Putin to Back U.S. Action Against Iraq But Still Meets Resistance

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Administration officials said today that they were encouraged by a telephone conversation that President Bush had with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia seeking support for American action against Saddam Hussein, and that differences between the governments over Iraq were exaggerated.
 The Kremlin countered that Mr. Putin stood firm against a move on Iraq and that his priority was still to send United Nations arms inspectors back to Baghdad, which the Bush administration's most hawkish members consider a waste of time. 
 The dueling accounts came after the half-hour telephone call between the leaders this morning and a 20-minute Oval Office meeting later between Mr. Bush and Russia's foreign and defense ministers. The administration's public statements of optimism were echoed by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who said his own meetings with the ministers had been productive. 
"We recommitted ourselves to finding a way forward that would bring Iraq into compliance, and I think they're open to hear our arguments and we're open to hear their arguments," Secretary Powell told reporters outside the State Department. "And so the split that has been much spoken about earlier this week I don't think is quite the split that people have portrayed."
Although the Kremlin said in a statement that Mr. Putin was adamant about the return of the inspectors, senior administration officials indicated that the Russians were less resistant to war with Iraq in private than they were in public.
"As this evolves," a senior administration official said, "it's becoming clear that the Russians are not going to be the problem, that the Russians are willing to be agnostic on a whole host of issues. It sounds as if they're resigned that this is going to play itself out in a military confrontation, and they're just more concerned in having what they see as an appropriate role -- political, economic, whatever -- in a post-Saddam Iraq."
Since the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Putin has strongly supported Mr. Bush's campaign against terrorism, even as he has kept close economic ties with Iraq. The two leaders have what Mr. Bush describes as a close personal bond, but Mr. Putin also faces continuing political pressure in Moscow not to be seen as merely a docile supporter of the White House.
The administration continued its diplomatic offensive on multiple fronts for fast action on Iraq.
At the White House, officials formally released the first comprehensive rationale for pre-emptive strikes against nations that aggressively develop biological, chemical or nuclear weapons, and made the argument that the United States had to remain the world's unchallenged military power.
On Capitol Hill, White House officials met with Congressional leaders to begin talks on the wording of a White House resolution seeking Congress's approval to oust Mr. Hussein. But some lawmakers said the document represented an overly broad grant of power to the president and would allow him to wage war throughout the Middle East.
"The resolution is a direct insult and an affront to the powers given to Congress on matters of war under the Constitution," said Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia.
The most aggressive White House lobbying, however, was directed at Mr. Putin, whose country is pivotal to a separate resolution on the use of force against Iraq that the United States is seeking from the United Nations Security Council. As one of the five permanent members of the Council, Russia can veto any resolution, although Mr. Bush has made it clear that he will act without the United Nations if that becomes necessary. The senior administration official said today that Russia would at least abstain in any Council vote.
Mr. Bush called Mr. Putin from the Oval Office and reached him during a working vacation on the Black Sea. Afterward, the president met with Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov and Defense Minister Sergei B. Ivanov. Later, the Russians met for nearly two hours at the State Department with Secretary Powell and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld.
The Russians pressed Secretary Powell and Mr. Rumsfeld with their concerns about terrorists in the Pankisi Gorge of Georgia, and gave Secretary Powell information suggesting links between some Georgian officials and terrorist groups. In a speech today at the National Press Club, Foreign Minister Ivanov said Russia reserved the right to attack terrorists. 
"Using concrete facts and concrete evidence and proofs," Mr. Ivanov said, "we have demonstrated to our counterparts the magnitude of threat presented to Russia by the guerrillas relocated to the Pankisi Valley."
Some foreign policy experts said today that the Russians might be implicitly seeking a free hand to intervene in Georgia, without American opposition, in exchange for acquiescence on Iraq in the Security Council. In addition, the Russians are concerned about recovering $8 billion in debts they are owed by Iraq.
Asked today if Mr. Bush was offering to pay the Russians the $8 billion as an incentive for Russian support at the United Nations, his press secretary, Ari Fleischer, said no.
"The incentive the president is offering is logic and a straight, direct, from-the-heart talk about the risks that Russia faces and the rest of the world faces, and in addition the American people face, from Saddam Hussein and his relentless quest for weapons of mass destruction," Mr. Fleischer said.
American and Russian officials said Mr. Putin and Mr. Bush would continue to discuss Iraq next month at a summit meeting of Asian nations in Mexico.
By the end of the day, administration officials said that they wanted a vote on the Iraq resolution in Congress by the week after next, and that the meeting with Congressional leaders on the wording of the resolution had been positive.
"It was simple give-and-take about 'what did you mean when you said this and why is that particular phrase here and not there?' " an administration official said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sergei B. Ivanov, front left, Russia's defense minister, and Igor S. Ivanov, right, Russian's foreign minister, leaving the White House yesterday after meeting with President Bush, who was seeking support for action against Iraq. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); TERRORISM (61%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); SERGEI IVANOV (90%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; DAO, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); IVANOV, SERGEI B (MIN); IVANOV, IGOR S (MIN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



571 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Apology Aside, Germany Vote Has U.S. Hinge 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder wrote a personal letter to President Bush today apologizing for "the supposed remarks" by his justice minister, who is said to have compared Mr. Bush's political tactics over Iraq to those of Hitler.
 His letter was sent two days before a German election that has turned into the closest and most bitter political battle here for many years. Polls suggest that Mr. Schroder, a Social Democrat, has inched ahead of his conservative rival, Edmund Stoiber, largely by attacking American threats to invade Iraq. 
 "The minister has assured me that she did not make the remarks attributed to her," Mr. Schroder wrote to Mr. Bush. "I would like to make it clear to you how much I regret that through the supposed remarks of the German justice minister an impression was left that could deeply injure your feelings."
The letter, from the leader of what is traditionally one of America's staunchest European allies, illustrated the accumulation of unease and friction that have afflicted German-American relations over Iraq. The personal relationship between Mr. Bush and Mr. Schroder has never been an easy one, but it has clearly deteriorated in recent weeks. 
Evidently furious, Mr. Bush said today that he was "deeply troubled" by the remarks attributed to Justice Minister Herta Daubler-Gmelin, a 59-year-old Social Democrat. 
Ms. Daubler-Gmelin held a combative news conference today in which she denied comparing Mr. Bush to Hitler. She insisted that the report quoting her as doing so had been "an evil election maneuver."
But she again appeared to confuse her denial by saying she had indeed talked about the way Mr. Bush's foreign policy could divert attention from domestic problems, and had added that debate on such political methods had been well known since the time of "Adolf Nazi." Her original remarks were reportedly made on Sunday at a meeting with labor union leaders.
Today, she added: "It is absurd and slanderous to connect me to a comparison between a democratically elected politician and Nazi leaders. I deeply regret that this has thrown shadows on German-American relations, and I am here to clear that up."
But little is clear in this turbulent election. Mr. Schroder's resurgence, based on his refusal to support any form of war in Iraq, has thrown him into a conflict with the Bush administration that is both substantive and personal. Ms. Daubler-Gmelin's apparent indiscretions are only the most vocal and wounding expressions of this conflict.
In the vote on Sunday, Germans will elect the 669-member Parliament. The next governing coalition, and the future chancellor, will be chosen on the basis of showings of the parties.
The German system is so carefully weighted -- with voters casting ballots both for parties and for individuals in their district, and a barrier of 5 percent of the overall vote required to get into Parliament at all -- that one party almost never emerges the clear victor, and coalition government is required.
Polls released today suggested that the election was too close to call, with the Social Democrats and the conservatives, represented by the Christian Democrats and the Bavarian Christian Social Union, each getting about 37 to 38 percent of the vote.
The Free Democrats, a party committed to reducing the role of the state in the economy, are between 7 and 10 percent; the environmentalist Greens between 6 and 8 percent; and the former East German Communists just below the 5 percent minimum that would win them seats.
As a result, the makeup of the future government is unpredictable, although Mr. Schroder appears to have a very slight edge. Whether he will continue to rule with the Greens, or in some other coalition, is unclear. The Greens had long appeared vulnerable, but have also rallied in recent weeks as a result of anti-American sentiment over Iraq. 
As for the Free Democrats, they are in a state of some confusion. Under their new leader, Guido Westerwelle, 40, they entered the campaign confident that they would re-enter government in coalition with Mr. Stoiber and the conservatives, ousting Mr. Schroder and his Green coalition partner, Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer.
While the Free Democrats largely campaigned as the natural partners of Mr. Stoiber, the party now offers its help to either major party. But there is a strong chance that no one will need them at all.
At their final rally here Thursday night, Mr. Westerwelle appeared with some of the grand old men of German politics, like Hans-Dietrich Genscher, a former foreign minister, and Count Otto von Lambsdorff, a former finance minister.
But Mr. Westerwelle ran into trouble with his deputy, Jurgen Mollemann, a former paratrooper with a penchant for harsh criticism of Israel and of a prominent Jewish talk show host, Michel Friedman. Mr. Mollemann's comments, seen as an effort to win right-wing votes, were judged by many to be anti-Semitic.
Mr. Westerwelle had ordered Mr. Mollemann to behave himself, but the day of the final rally, there was news that Mr. Mollemann had circulated an election flyer repeating his criticisms. An embarrassed Mr. Westerwelle ordered his deputy to stay away from the rally.
But he showed up anyway, attracting most of the attention. He told journalists that he did not want to create a bad image for the party, then, having done so, drove away.
At the rally, Mr. Westerwelle tried to ignore the entire affair and spoke of the Free Democrats' commitment to structural economic change, lower taxes and less government.
Wolfgang Gerhard, a former Free Democratic Party leader and likely foreign minister in any coalition with the conservatives, which he clearly prefers, said, "I would expect us to win 10 to 11 percent." 
"That would be better for a strong and clear government," he said. "We are open to either party, but we want to bring about serious labor-market and tax reform."
If the Free Democrats are anxious, the mood of the rival Greens and of their popular leader, Foreign Minister Fischer, is ebullient. A rally in Cologne was full of young people and good humor, with a hoarse Mr. Fischer creating rock star-like excitement, especially as he jabbed away at Mr. Stoiber.
The rally showed once again how far the Greens have traveled from their founding radicalism. They once held that no one should remain in office longer than one term.
Mr. Fischer spoke of climate change, of environmental responsibility, of basic fairness to the poor and of war and peace. "To have more means to have more responsibility for the rest of the world," he said, to great applause, "you must not cut the branch on which you sit."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ADDING IT UP: Party Standings in Germany"With pre-election momentum shifting toward Gerhard Schrder, his Greens coalition partners may remain in power. CURRENT COMPOSITION OF GERMAN PARLIAMENT Social Democratic Party (S.D.P.): 293Christian Democratic Union (C.D.U.): 245Greens: 47Free Democratic Party (F.D.P.): 43Party of Democratic Socialism (P.D.S.): 37Vacant: 3Independent: 1 (Source: German Embassy)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); IRAQ WAR (72%); LIBEL & SLANDER (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (59%); PARTY OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM (59%); FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); STOIBER, EDMUND; DAUBLER-GMELIN, HERTA (MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) GERMANY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002 



572 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
StretchingCatalogs' Reach With the Internet

BYLINE:  By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
This is the time when retail catalogs fill mailboxes in anticipation of the holiday season. But the number of catalogs has leveled off, while catalog sales, helped by catalog companies' Internet sales, have kept rising, according to the Direct Marketing Association. 
 "If you don't shop with catalogs, you are less likely to get them in the mail," said Amy Blankenship, direc-tor of the Shop-at-Home Information Center for the association. This summer, postal rates for third-class mail rose 8.5 percent, so companies are relying more on online sales. The Internet is expected to account for 29 percent of sales next year, up from an estimated 22 percent in 2001. 
 "Catalogers have been able to take the Internet and make it work," Ms. Blankenship said. KATHLEEN O'BRIEN

GRAPHIC: Graphs track the following: CATALOG SALES -- Includes related Internet sales from 1996-2002. CATALOGS MAILED from 1996-2001 COOKIE AND CANDY SALES -- 4-week moving average, weeklyYear-over-year change from Feb.-Aug. 11 NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS -- Year-over-year change, weekly from March-Sept. HOUSING PRICES -- Change in consumer price index from Sept. 2001-Aug. 2002 PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGS -- Totals in thousands, weekly from April-Sept. ONLINE SALES -- Dollars in billions, weekly from April-Sept. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATES -- Four-week moving average, daily for New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles from April-Sept. 17 (Sources: Direct Marketing Association catalog data ; Information Resources cookie and candy sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics consumer prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAIL ORDER RETAILING (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DIRECT MARKETING (88%); RETAILERS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); POSTAL RATES (68%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CATALOGS 

COMPANY: DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) DIRECT MARKETING ASSN 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



573 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: High Oil Prices Pose a Threat To Economies, U.S. Cautions 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: OSAKA, Japan, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
The United States energy secretary told his counterparts from other countries today that current high oil prices and volatility in the market could harm global economic growth. 
 "High prices could produce an undesirable ripple effect on the economies of the world," the American secretary, Spencer Abraham, said in an address to the opening session of the International Energy Forum, a gathering of ministers from 65 countries. "If the industrialized world experiences an economic slump, its markets for the developing world's products will contract, damaging developing economies." 
 His comments came after the decision on Thursday by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to leave its production quotas intact but to promise to pump additional oil if shortages develop, including one stemming from an attack on Iraq. OPEC's decision could lead to tight supplies and higher prices globally because oil importers will likely have to use their inventories to meet demand during the winter months. 
Today, Mr. Abraham said, "High prices may be pleasing to producers in the short term, but in the long term, volatile pricing regimes of this kind are destabilizing and harmful to all participants."
As energy ministers spoke at the forum, the meeting's sponsor, the International Energy Agency, released a study saying that the global economy will become even more dependent on oil from the Middle East over the next three decades. The study said such continued reliance would further heighten concerns about the security of energy supplies and the ability of major nations to reduce greenhouse gases.
In its biannual world energy outlook, the agency also said it expects oil prices to average $21 a barrel through the end of the decade -- down from nearly $30 now -- despite renewed prospects for a global economic expansion and political uncertainty in the Middle East. Cheap and abundant oil from the Middle East will be coupled by a decline in the use of coal and nuclear power, except in Asia, where China and India will increase mining, it said.
Gyrations in price resulting from political instability in the Middle East will remain, the agency said, because oil and other fossil fuels will meet more than 90 percent of the world's new energy needs. Almost all additional oil needs will be met by producers in the region as well as Russia. Developing countries, particularly China, will consume about two-thirds of the new oil supply, the report said.
"Security of supply has come back to the top of the agenda and likely will remain there," Robert Priddle, the agency's executive director, said.
Reliance on Middle East oil will be heightened because the growth of supplies in North America and Europe is likely to slow in the coming years, the agency said. At the same time, it said, most industrialized countries will funnel proportionately less money into developing nuclear energy as they retire existing facilities. They will also scale back the use of coal as they try to meet emissions targets in the Kyoto protocol on global warming.
The forecast highlights some of the differences between the agency and OPEC. Representing large oil-consuming nations, the agency, based in Paris, tends to push for greater production and lower prices.
By contrast, OPEC prefers to make cautious forecasts for oil demand fearing that prices could plummet if it pumps more oil and demand does not rise fast enough to meet it. 
On Thursday, Rilwanu Lukman, the president of OPEC and Nigeria's top oil official, described talk of oil shortages as "scare mongering."
Regardless, the global economy is likely to remain hostage to volatile oil markets, the energy agency said. "Unless surplus capacity in current oil production and refining increases, markets will remain sensitive to actual or feared swings or disruptions in supply, whether political or technical," its report said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (66%) UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



574 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: More Housing for Migrants of Napa Vineyards 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN 

DATELINE: ST. HELENA, Calif., Sept. 19 

 BODY:
This is the season of abundance in the Napa Valley, when the scent of crushed grapes infuses the air, and the porch of the Catholic church becomes a makeshift home for some 45 migrant workers waiting for the reds. They call the porch Los Pinos, after Mexico's presidential palace.
 This is the moment when the golden light of autumn casts two Napas into high relief: the one of visitors luxuriating in deep-tissue massages and Frette linens, the other of laborers sleeping along the riverbank, under bridges, in vineyards, in packed garages and in parked cars, the windows foggy with their breath. 
 It has been this way for years in the Napa Valley, where thousands of migrant farmworkers, almost all of them Mexican, arrive each year to work the gemlike vineyards, finding plenty of jobs but few roofs or beds. 
But this year, many of the workers making their way to the harvest -- estimates range from 2,500 to 4,500 -- are beginning to see signs of change.
At the base of Rutherford Hill, for example, a yurt village for 40 migrant workers -- inspired by the domed tents of Mongolian nomads -- was recently erected by the county in a remote lakeside picnic area.
"In Mexico, we sleep in the meadows," said Juan Chavez, 36, a camp chef from Michoacan. "You have to sleep where the work is."
Off the Silverado Trail, where semis bearing grapes barrel down oak allees, a 60-bed camp made of rammed earth and called the Stonebridge Farm Workers Center is rising on eight acres donated by the Joseph Phelps Vineyards. The $3.2 million center, financed by the state, the county and the Napa Valley Vintners Association, is the first of possibly five new camps in the valley.
The construction can be traced to a striking political shift. Last spring, in a move some say is a national model, county residents approved Measure L, which loosened long-sacrosanct zoning restrictions against development on agricultural land to permit the building of farmworker housing. The measure calls for up to five camps to provide temporary shelter for up to 300 farmworkers. This month, a majority of the valley's 1,900 vineyard owners, representing some 44,400 acres, voted to tax themselves $7.76 per acre to help pay for and operate the new housing.
The demand for worker housing is in many ways a distinctly Napa problem. While 75 percent of California wine grapes are picked by machine, roughly the same percentage in the valley is picked by hand. Workers here brave porch floors for hourly wages that on average are 9 percent higher than elsewhere in the state: up to $100 on a good picking day. 
A study by the University of California at Davis found that the number of beds for farmworkers fell from 400 in the 1980's to 250 in the 1990's. The county has 176 beds in four public camps, including the yurt village, managed by the nonprofit California Human Development Corporation; seven camps with about 60 beds are privately owned.
The harvest season extends from mid-August, when the fields are heavy with sauvignon blanc and grapes to use for champagne, to late October, when the late-ripening cabernet grapes crisscross the hills at improbable vertical angles. Increasingly, migrant workers like Salvador Servin, 62, a resident of the Calistoga Farm Worker Center, the county's oldest camp, arrive early in the season. Mr. Servin can make $12.50 an hour during the harvest, paying $10 a day for a room shared with two others and three meals. During the September and October peak, a typical worker picks for four to five hours a day, in the cooler weather of early morning, said Philip Martin, a professor of agricultural economics at the University of California at Davis.
The Calistoga camp opens Jan. 16 and can be full by March 1. "Then I have to send them away," said Angel Calderon, 50, the site manager, who sends money home to Timbinal in Guanajuato. "If the other camps are full, I tell them to go to the church," he said. "These people need to eat, they need to rest, to take a shower, to do laundry. It's very, very hard."
Increasingly, demand for workers extends beyond the harvest. It reached a critical point two years ago, when phylloxera led to the replanting of Napa's vineyards.
Most vintners replanted at higher density, with about 1,200 vines per acre rather than 500 to 600. "Now there were more vines to prune, more sophisticated and complex trellising techniques, more hand-suckering and leaf-pulling," said Tom Shelton, president and chief executive of Phelps Vineyards. "More vines equal more labor. It's not just a harvest issue anymore."
As grape acreage rose, the housing for pickers became scarce. Rising land values, corporate ownership and, some say, more housing regulations led to the closing of camps.
Image has also been a factor, said Ruben Oropeza, the county environmental enforcement officer, whose father was a manager of a migrant camp. "You're building a winery for tourism," he said. "So why would you want a little Tijuana next to it?" Some of the 18 private camps that have closed in recent years have been subsumed by wineries. One is now a gym for a wealthy family, Mr. Oropeza said. Another, which formerly housed 60 workers, is "a palatial house you could put on the front page of Sunset magazine."
The housing shortage, Professor Martin said, was a sharp contrast to "the nice, pretty little valley with the Mercedes pulling up." 
Msgr. John Brenkel, the pastor of St. Helena Roman Catholic Church and a leading housing advocate, said, "Here in the valley we've practiced economic apartheid," adding, "It behooves us to level the playing field."
The new Stonebridge center, which will have a communal garden and a soccer field, is expected to be finished by next harvest. Rosa Segura, chairwoman of the county's Migrant Farmworker Housing Committee, said that the passage of Measure L was a major improvement but that the real challenge was to get more land donated for new camps. "There will always be overcrowding," she said, "and landlords who seize the opportunity to put 10 men in a one-bedroom apartment."
Meanwhile, there are stopgap measures like the yurt village, which was moved this year from Yountville, about a mile from the celebrated French Laundry restaurant, to a wooded site near Lake Hennessey. 
The 10 yurts, tents on wooden platforms housing four men each, were paid for by $130,000 in private donations. Ilene Jacobs, director of litigation for California Rural Legal Assistance, a nonprofit organization, said the yurts sent the wrong message. "It's one thing for vacationers on the Oregon coast," she said. "It's another thing to say it's adequate housing for farmworkers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Roberto Ortiz Otozco, left, and Jesus Casteneda are among the Napa farmworkers who share a yurt. A county measure passed in the spring loosened zoning restrictions to allow for more housing for migrant workers.; A yurt village inspired by the domed tents of the nomadic Mongols was recently erected to house 40 migrant farmworkers in the Napa Valley. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIGRANT WORKERS (92%); FARM LABOR (91%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); WINE (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); COUNTIES (71%); ZONING (66%); APPROVALS (61%); MASSAGE SERVICES (56%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; HOUSING; LABOR; MIGRANT LABOR; FARMERS 

ORGANIZATION: PHELPS, JOSEPH, VINEYARDS; NAPA VALLEY VINTNERS ASSN 

PERSON: BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (98%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (94%) NAPA VALLEY (CALIF); MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



575 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Veteran's Path to Reconciliation 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
For Zenji Abe, World War II ended the day in 1991 when he visited the U.S.S. Arizona Memorial in Hawaii.
 One of the few remaining pilots from the Japanese raids on Pearl Harbor half a century before, he came to apologize to his former foes. While listening to an American veteran play taps that day, Mr. Abe looked down into the harbor, where oil still drifts to the surface from the wreck of the battleship below. 
 "People said those bubbles coming from the bottom of the Arizona were oil bubbles," Mr. Abe said. "But to me, they looked like the tears and crying of the soldiers who died in the attack."
The experience helped close a dark chapter in Mr. Abe's life, and it opened another, more enduring one. Instead of going home sad, Mr. Abe, now 85, formed deep friendships with American veterans, most notably with Richard Fiske, the bugler who played at the memorial. As a sign of their bond, Mr. Fiske plays taps there on the last Sunday of every month and, care of Mr. Abe, leaves behind two red roses.
Many Japanese bristled when commentators compared the raids on Pearl Harbor, when 350 Japanese fighters destroyed much of the United States Pacific Fleet and killed 2,400 people, to the Sept. 11 attacks in New York and Washington, and none more than Mr. Abe. To this former naval officer schooled in bushido, the unwritten code of Japan's feudal warriors, attacking defenseless civilians is taboo. He and other Japanese veterans insist that an act of war directed against men in uniform can never be likened to the terrorists' slaughter of ordinary civilians.
"War and terrorism are totally different," he insisted, sitting in his living room cluttered with World War II memorabilia, including a model of the Akagi, the aircraft carrier he took off from in 1941.
As he recovered from cancer surgery in July, Mr. Abe received flowers from veterans across the United States. Every year, an American Navy officer who served on a ship Mr. Abe said he bombed sends him a Christmas card.
Mr. Fiske, too, finds solace in the relationship. On the battleship West Virginia during the raid, he looked a Japanese pilot straight in the eye as his plane swooped low over the vessel. The image of the pilot's face haunted Mr. Fiske for decades and left him with nightmares.
That changed when he met Mr. Abe. The men now work to ensure their stories are not forgotten. This year, students at an elementary school in Honolulu won a prize for a video project documenting the friendship between the two men, and National Geographic and NBC News have featured them in reports.
Since Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Abe has also worked to make sure Pearl Harbor and the World Trade Center do not become interchangeable historical reference points. He does not dispute his role in the 1941 attack and said he had supported Japan's expansion efforts in Asia. 
Still, he worries that if too many Americans associate the attacks of 1941 and 2001, they may forget that Japan is a stalwart ally of the United States. "The moment I saw the World Trade Center attacked, it got me to think of the U.S. people's reaction," he said. 
Mr. Abe said ignorance was behind much of the fervor that led to the war. As for many of his generation, the military was a way out of rural poverty. After winning a spot in a naval academy, he became a pilot, but said his views then were colored by a barrage of propaganda from his military superiors.
"It was only after the war that I learned that American people are basically good.
"Of course, we have a very bad history of fighting and hating each other," Mr. Abe said. "But we have to forgive and get along."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zenji Abe, 85, flew Zero fighter planes during World War II and took part in the Japanese bombing raid on Pearl Harbor. (Stuart Isett/Gamma, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); NAVIES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); VETERANS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); AIRLINES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (63%) WORLD WAR II (1939-45); TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; ABE, ZENJI; FISKE, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) HAWAII, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%) PEARL HARBOR (HAWAII); JAPAN; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



576 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Candidates for Governor Refine Their Strategies 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
With the general election less than seven weeks away, the strategies of the main candidates for governor have taken shape, as the Democrats try to close the lead in the polls that the Republican incumbent, George E. Pataki, has forged by reaching across party lines.
 To win, the Democratic candidate, H. Carl McCall, needs to win back Latino voters and other Democrats in New York City while continuing to eat away at the governor's base of support in upstate counties, strategists in both parties say. He also must challenge Mr. Pataki in the suburbs, where the governor had a two-to-one lead in a recent public poll. 
 For Mr. Pataki, the trick will be to consolidate the gains he has made among city voters, hold Mr. McCall at bay in the suburbs and regain some of his stature in the economically battered towns in the rest of New York. 
It is among those economically struggling voters that Tom Golisano, a Rochester billionaire paying for his own third-party campaign, has attracted support with a conservative throw-the-bums-out message. It remains to be seen, however, whether Mr. Golisano can to win a plurality. In his previous two races, he made no headway in New York City or its suburbs and has never won more than 7 percent of the statewide vote.
Today, Mr. McCall spent the day fund-raising, calling and meeting with donors, said Steven Greenberg, a campaign spokesman. Mr. Golisano took the day off from campaigning, officials with his campaign said. Mr. Pataki attended a ribbon-cutting for a new state park on Long Island and two festivals in Westbury, N.Y., among his activities today.
In New York City, the race has focused on education. Mr. Pataki's tactic in recent weeks has been to defuse one of Mr. McCall's sharpest attacks, the charge that the governor is satisfied with an eighth-grade education for urban youths, an idea that outrages many black and Hispanic voters. 
Mr. Pataki has taken pains in recent days to state plainly that that is not his position, although state lawyers have argued in court that an eighth-grade education is sufficient to be a voter or a juror. The governor has also been using advertisements emphasizing his support among union leaders, Democratic elected officials, Hispanic leaders, black clergy and others who do not traditionally back Republicans. He has even applauded the Democratic Party for nominating a black man in Mr. McCall.
For his part, Mr. McCall is trying to make the case that Mr. Pataki does not care about urban schools because he fought a court ruling ordering the state to do more for city students. He is also laboring to remind Latino voters that the Democrats are the traditional guardian angels of programs to aid the poor and immigrants.
Strategists say Mr. McCall cannot win without a big turnout and a resounding victory in the city, which has provided about 30 percent of the vote in every statewide election since 1994. Long Island and the northern suburbs usually account for about a quarter of the vote and the rest of the state makes up 45 percent. As a rule of thumb, a Democratic candidate who gets about 70 percent of the vote in the city and stays close to the Republican candidate in the suburbs is hard to beat.
Mr. Pataki, however, got 33 percent of the city vote in 1998 and has gained ground since then, as much as 10 percentage points in some public polls. He has secured the support of several traditionally Democratic labor unions and has been successful in courting Latino voters. Like most incumbents, he has also received a boost from the commemorations of last year's terrorist attacks. The manager of the McCall campaign, Allen P. Cappelli, said the Democrats would need to persuade rank-and-file union members to come back to their party and to reverse the trend among Latino voters flirting with Mr. Pataki. Mr. McCall believes the key is the education issue. "That's the centerpiece of our campaign down here," he said. 
In the suburbs, Mr. Pataki has gone on the offensive with advertisements highlighting Mr. McCall's support for a commuter tax. They include a videotape of Mr. McCall saying no one complained about the commuter tax when it was repealed in 1999. It also criticizes Mr. McCall for voting for 19 tax increases when he was a state senator in the 1970's. The bills were sponsored by a Republican majority.
Mr. Pataki's strategists said they thought their portrayal of Mr. McCall as an incurable tax raiser would hurt him chiefly among white suburbanites. The Pataki camp is also likely to make use of Mr. McCall's recent statement that state aid to suburban schools might have to be cut to fix problems in urban school districts, aides to the campaign said. The Republicans may also bring up the poor performance of city students when Mr. McCall was the president of the Board of Education in the early 1990's.
Mr. McCall's camp has fought back by pointing out that local taxes have risen under Mr. Pataki, largely because of health programs ordered by the state. The challenge for Mr. McCall will be to link Mr. Pataki in the voters' minds to tax increases approved by local officials. "It's a tax shell game," Mr. Cappelli said. "There isn't a county executive in this state that is happy about what's going on here."
Mr. McCall has also tried to distinguish himself from the governor by saying he would seek to close the Indian Point nuclear power plant on the Hudson River, an issue of considerable interest in Westchester and Rockland Counties.
So far, though, Mr. Pataki has seemed unassailable in the city's suburbs, strategists for both parties said. In a sense, he is the perfect suburban candidate, a white, Catholic, fiscal conservative who supports both abortion rights and gun control. In 1998, he won 62 percent of the vote in the suburbs, and a recent poll by Marist College showed he had 60 percent of the suburban vote.
"Pataki is running up the score in the suburbs right now," said Lee Miringhoff, the executive director of the poll. "That's the region that has been least affected by the economic downturn."
Upstate, however, the focus of the race has been the economy, the economy, the economy. Once again, Mr. Pataki has been aggressive, accusing Mr. McCall, who is the state comptroller, of not investing enough of the state's pension funds in New York State.
Mr. Pataki has also been distributing a slew of economic development grants across the state. On Friday alone, he held news conferences in Watertown, Utica and Syracuse to announce state grants for economic development or the creation of new jobs.
Mr. McCall has emphasized that young people are leaving the state, pinning blame for the declining population and stagnant manufacturing sector on Mr. Pataki. He has also accused the governor of not spending enough state money to help start new industries during the financial boom of the 1990's.
The third candidate, Mr. Golisano, has spent tens of millions on advertisements attacking Mr. Pataki's record on the economy and a host of other issues. He has hammered home the message that upstate has lost thousands of jobs in the last eight years. He has also portrayed the governor as a liberal who favors gun control and higher spending. Mr. Golisano has even questioned Mr. Pataki's patriotism, suggesting that the governor's opposition to the United States Navy's bombing practice on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques would cost the lives of servicemen. 
It is hard to say how many voters who support Mr. Golisano would vote for Mr. Pataki in a two-way race, strategists say. The Democrats hope that if Mr. Golisano, the likely candidate of the Independence Party, can get more than 10 percent he will pull moderate and conservative voters away from the Republican candidate. The Republicans hope that he draws equally from both camps and that his damage to Mr. Pataki has already peaked.
In the end, Mr. McCall would like the election to be a referendum on Mr. Pataki's eight years in office, which he portrays as a failure for the schools and the economy. The governor's strategists have decided that the best defense is to come out swinging against Mr. McCall, raising questions about his own record on education and economic development. 
Kieran Mahoney, one of Mr. Pataki's chief campaign consultants, said, "There is a Carl McCall nobody knows about."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki is concentrating on consolidating his gains. (Associated Press); Tom Golisano appeals to voters who are economically struggling. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); H. Carl McCall is trying to win back Latinos who left the fold. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CITIES (76%); SUBURBS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); LAWYERS (62%); RELIGION (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; GOLISANO, TOM; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



577 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Enron Examiner Raises More Questions 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
The Enron Corporation created a series of off-the-books partnerships that may have allowed the company to disguise billions of dollars in debt and to repeatedly manipulate its financial statements in recent years, the examiner in the company's bankruptcy case said in a report filed late Friday.
 The preliminary report suggested that Enron, with the help of its former auditor, Arthur Andersen, violated accounting rules by creating a series of complicated financial transactions that often treated loans as sales that pumped up Enron's reported revenue, profit and cash-flow. 
 The report also found that Enron viewed many of these transactions as "balance sheet management," that they were not always arms-length transactions, and that many of the company's debts were not disclosed to investors.
According to legal experts and people involved in the bankruptcy case, these findings are the latest examples of how complicated structured-finance transactions may have allowed Enron to obfuscate its financial condition and possibly defraud investors of billions of dollars. 
There are now more than a dozen federal investigations into the collapse of Enron, based in Houston, last December. Andersen, the giant accounting firm, has since failed. And recently, members of Congress have criticized some of the world's largest banks and brokerage firms, like Citigroup, J. P. Morgan Chase and Merrill Lynch, accusing them of engaging in deals that helped Enron manipulate its financial statements.
The examiner's findings are significant. If he determines that certain former Enron executives, accountants, financial institutions and law firms were responsible for Enron's collapse because of fraud, the court could appoint someone to file lawsuits and seek to recover billions of dollars in losses for the Enron estate.
In the report to the bankruptcy court in New York which appointed him examiner in the case, Neal Batson detailed six transactions in which Enron created partnerships and then sold an asset to that partnership to book income and revenue or cash flow. The transactions, the examiner said, do not appear to be real sales but disguised loans.
Mr. Batson, an Atlanta lawyer who has assembled a large team of investigators, has declined to speak to the news media. But in the 160-page report filed with the court late Friday, he said that he had not come to any firm conclusions. Yet he said that between 1997 and 2001, Enron raised $1.4 billion in cash through such deals.
Accounting experts have said that similar transactions suggest that Enron was often desperate for cash, particularly in 2000 and 2001, and that the company was seeking to raise money that it would not have to disclose to outside investors as debt. The company may have also found other ways of using the partnerships, the experts say, like bolstering its revenue, income and cash flow statements, as well as ridding itself of some poorly performing assets.
The deals were done with special purpose entities with names like Hawaii 125-0, Nikita, SO2, Backbone and Cerberus. And several of them involved other companies closely affiliated with Enron, like LJM2, which was run by Andrew S. Fastow, the company's former chief financial officer, and assets tied to Enron Oil and Gas, EOTT Energy Partners and NewPower Holdings, which were company spin-offs.
The deals also involved some of the world's biggest banks, including the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Barclays, FleetBoston Financial and Credit Suisse First Boston. Spokesmen for those banks were unavailable for comment late today. In the past, most of them have said their dealings with Enron were proper.
Some creditors hailed the preliminary findings of the report.
"The examiner's report underscores the complicity of the investment banks in Enron's collapse," said Andrew Entwistle, a lawyer who represents some of the creditors in the Enron bankruptcy case, said today. "The Wall Street banks used structure finance to aid and abet Enron's fraud."
In one complicated set of transactions mentioned in the report, for instance, Enron set up a partnership called Hawaii 125-0. Enron sold the partnership some of its assets in NewPower Holdings, including common stock. Enron agreed to pay Hawaii interest and fees to hedge the stock so that Enron could book $370 million in income in 2000, about 14 percent of its profits that year.
The examiner's experts believe several of the transactions with Hawaii were actually disguised loans. They were not true sales but Hawaii was paid to raise money for Enron by holding an asset Enron continued to control and benefit from, the report said. The examiner also said that Enron's debt was often improperly disclosed in its financial statements.
In the report, the examiner suggested that many of the deals were a sham. He said that Enron often set up the partnership and backed it with Enron's credit to help it obtain financing. Enron then sold the partnership an asset but often retained control of the asset and essentially made interest payments back to the partnership as part of the deal. Most of the time, the examiner said, the assets were difficult to sell or did not have sufficient cash flow to cover the partnership's purchase price.
"Enron intended the transfers of assets to be sales for financial reporting purposes," the examiner wrote. "On the other hand, the economic consequences to Enron of these transactions were substantially similar to loans."
Based on this preliminary study, the examiner wrote that if those sales are recharacterized as loans, about $500 million in assets that were sold to various partnerships could be the property of the debtor, or the Enron estate.
Over the past two years, the examiner said that Enron was prolific in the use of special purpose entities to raise money, and that around the time Enron filed for bankruptcy it listed about $13 billion as debt on the balance sheet but about $25 billion in off-balance-sheet debt, largely because of transactions like these.
The examiner also questioned why in some places Enron and its accountants reported gains on a reported sale but sometimes listed certain transactions as loans for tax purposes. The examiner, who has subpoena power and is seeking Enron-related documents from more than 400 other financial institutions and law firms, is expected to issue other reports in the coming months.
Among the questions he is seeking to answer, according to his report, are: what was the role of the special purpose entities in the collapse of Enron? And, if it is determined that wrongful acts were committed in those off-balance-sheet partnership transactions, can the estate sue former Enron executives, directors, lawyers, accountants and companies that helped bring down Enron? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); ETHICS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; PARTNERSHIPS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID; BATSON, NEAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



578 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 76 words

HEADLINE: Sept. 15-21: NATIONAL; 
KEEPING THE CANDY

BYLINE:  By Andrew Ross Sorkin

 BODY:
 The charitable trust that controls the Hershey Foods Corporation abandoned its controversial auction of the company, turning down a $12.5 billion offer from the Wm. 
Wrigley Jr. Company. The trust bowed to the wishes of local officials and employees who had protested the sale of the company, worried that the economy of the storied company town of Hershey, Pa. could be crippled by plant closings and layoffs as a result of a deal. Andrew Ross Sorkin

GRAPHIC: Photo: A street light in Hershey, Pa. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); FOOD INDUSTRY (88%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); CLOSINGS (82%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: HERSHEY CO (91%)

TICKER: HSY (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (91%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (91%) SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



579 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 1; Men's Fashions of The Times Magazine; Pg. 88

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Talk Is Chic 

BYLINE:  By William Norwich; William Norwich is the entertaining editor of The Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Never mind Little Orphan Annie's sartorial edict that you are never fully dressed without a smile. This season, smart conversation, not just upturned lips, will make the man -- if the men who make fashion predictions are correct.
 Returning from the collections in Paris and Milan, a fashion-editor friend told me, "It's all about" -- always the three most powerful words in retail -- "Renaissance men." The one-dimensional C.E.O. is over, he said. "Now, it's all about men of multitalents." 
 Really? Leonardo da Vinci and not Leonardo DiCaprio? But where are these Renaissance men? Surely, one cannot become one overnight. A Renaissance man is expected to hold forth eloquently on many, many topics. An aptitude for playing "Jeopardy" in an armchair may not suffice.
Renaissance men are expected to be educated, experienced -- all-around humanists. They are the embodiment of the Greeks' Platonic ideal. Conversant in many disciplines, a Renaissance man not only is a poet and man of arts and letters, but also knows about astronomy, philosophy, medicine, physics, ecology, economics, religion, spirituality, capitalism, communism and socialism, to name just a few areas he can undertake in discourse without wrinkling his brow. (Translation: "triathlon" is not a synonym for "Renaissance.")
Of course, the modern world does not nurture such men. Instead, it extolls specialists. (Translation: botox doctors.) We are suspicious of Renaissance talents and belittle them with labels like "dilettante" and "jack-of-all-trades, master of none." Since World War II, when technology and science helped America win the war and maintain its freedom, both academia and business have rewarded compartmentalization, aiding and abetting "the widening division between things literary and things scientific," Steven B. Sample, the president of the University of Southern California, wrote in 1993. Bemoaning the demise of the Renaissance man, Sample observed, "This increasing shift toward specialization led inevitably to the abandonment of the classical curriculum." Knowledge, he said, "was no longer associated with virtue, nor with religion or gentlemanly ways. Instead, knowledge became associated with power, wealth, prosperity and political dominance." (Translation: lionizing dot-com geeks bearing stock options.)
But do not despair. As far as becoming a Renaissance man, the idea (at least as it concerns fashion) is simply to appear conversant. By all means, buy all the new clothes you can, and do not worry if you have not become a Renaissance man by the time the tailor finishes hemming. Decibel levels being what they are today, you do not have to say much to sound smart because (a.) no one can hear you, and (b.) everyone is too worried about appearing like Renaissance men to have any real interest in you. Joan Rivers once observed that, to make it in society, all one need do is stuff one's mouth with a substance like mashed potatoes and then try to speak. You will sound something like, "Fuh-fuh, fuh-fuh, fuh-fuh-fuh-fuh." A princess will confuse you with some stuck-up and invite you for the weekend.
Or, you can pursue that other society conversation model -- a little of this, a little of that and a lot of attitude. (Translation: this author's tongue is in his cheek.) For example, should you find yourself seated next to Brad Pitt, talk about architecture -- he likes architecture. Or ask Damien Hirst about medical supplies. But to tell you the truth, all you really have to talk about in society to qualify as worldly and experienced is not art, architecture, philosophy or science. No, no, no! It's Jet Lag! As a topic, it covers the multitude.
"How do you deal with Jet Lag, Mrs. Kravis, as you travel so much?"
"Like, wow, Britney, how do you handle Jet Lag, you know?"
"Serena? Venus? Jet lag?"
Jet Lag also suffices with first ladies. "I can't fathom, Mrs. Bush, what the Jet Lag is like when you and the president make these whirlwind tours." Jet Lag, however, is probably best not discussed with dictators. They tend to stay put for long periods and eat jets for breakfast. If seated next to a dictator, mention the servant problem. Won't you sound palatial!
Should you use up these topics, talk about loathing the press. Prince Charles will knight you; Nicole Kidman will kiss you. Alternately, if seated with members of the press, ask them to share their best-worst stories about celebrity press agents.
I'll start, and think you're a real Renaissance conversationalist for asking.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The gesticulating, chattering classes. (MARTIN PARR/MAGNUM PHOTOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (77%); CURRICULA (73%); CLASSICS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); RELIGION (71%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (66%); WORLD WAR II (63%) APPAREL; SPECIAL SECTIONS 

PERSON: LEONARDO DICAPRIO (69%) NORWICH, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



580 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: The World Cries Uncle 

BYLINE:  By Patrick E. Tyler; Patrick E. Tyler is the chief correspondent of The Times.

 BODY:
 THE IDEAS THAT
CONQUERED THE WORLD
Peace, Democracy, and Free Markets
in the Twenty-First Century.
By Michael Mandelbaum.
496 pp. New York:
PublicAffairs. $30.
 IT may seem strange, if not nervy, that in the midst of the war on terrorism, and as America contemplates war with Iraq -- and, perhaps, with other states among the "axis of evil" -- a book comes along to argue that war will soon be passe and that free markets and democracy will dominate the current millennium. 
"The Ideas That Conquered the World," by Michael Mandelbaum, is many things: partly a reprise of political and economic theory over the last two centuries; partly an essay on the links between democratic governance, the rule of law and what the author calls "warlessness"; partly a discussion of the connection between free trade and the spread of prosperity; and partly a series of warnings about potential future conflicts. It's a formidable and thought-provoking tour d'horizon. Best of all, it gives readers something to argue about. 
Mandelbaum's hero is Woodrow Wilson, who, in his description, "bestrode the world like a colossus" for a brief moment in the winter of 1918-19. In Wilson's reform program at the Paris peace conference, based on proposals for disarmament, democracy and free trade, Mandelbaum finds the core precepts that would emerge victorious and self-evident at the end of the cold war. 
Perhaps it is irresistible for any author writing about the new century to introduce his volume with a description of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. But in this case it is a temptation that should have been resisted. The war on terrorism is not the subject of Mandelbaum's book, and he offers little analysis of the crisis in relations between the West and the Islamic world, except to say that it is not important. 
Al Qaeda's assault, Mandelbaum argues, does not constitute a global challenge from a rival alliance whose philosophy confronts our Western system of market democracy. Therefore, he dismisses it as having an effect "more like that of a badly stubbed toe." It caused shock and pain, but "the world went on much as it had before." If only it were so uncomplicated. 
Should the United States find itself at war in Iraq next winter and, as some worst-case analysts predict, this should lead to a long and costly occupation of Iraq followed by confrontations with Iran and Syria, economic calamity and the destabilizing of such Arab states as Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Egypt, this notion of the "stubbed toe" will surely look wanting, to say the least. Then again, if the United States succeeds in overthrowing Saddam Hussein and establishing a democratic Iraq that contributes to political evolution in the region, reconciliation in the Holy Land and economic recovery, Mandelbaum's thesis may well seem prescient. In either case, everything appears to hinge on the American role in the post-cold-war world, and in particular on whether the United States can successfully persuade the international community to work in concert on a new security order. Yet on this critical point Mandelbaum's volume is thin. 
It is difficult, however, to argue with his main thesis: that eight decades after Wilson articulated a global order of peace, democracy and free markets, these ideas "had come to dominate international affairs, not in the sense that each was enthusiastically embraced and faithfully practiced everywhere but rather in the sense that they had no fully articulated and politically potent rivals." 
A reader has the feeling throughout this book that Mandelbaum has conveniently placed all of mankind in the same boat on the unsettled seas of a new millennium. He then sets out to explain at great length the physical laws of markets and democracy that have provided this vessel with buoyancy, while largely ignoring the struggle going on over who controls the rudder and the compass. 
The major criticism of Wilson concerns his unsuccessful attempt to create an international code of conduct to prevent war through the League of Nations. He seems appalled by Wilson's willingness to subvert American sovereignty through the League's charter. Yet he fails to show how Wilson's formulation was inferior in concept to the United Nations Charter or to Article V of the NATO alliance charter, which asserts that an attack on any member state is an attack on the alliance itself, requiring a collective response. 
Mandelbaum, the Christian A. Herter professor of American foreign policy at the School of Advanced International Studies of the Johns Hopkins University, was a candidate for several important posts in the Clinton Administration (none of which he accepted). For that reason, it seems gratuitous when he strays from his argument about markets and democracy to criticize Clinton-era foreign policy decisions, like the expansion of NATO. 
He also offers policy advice to future administrations. To Mandelbaum, the most dangerous place on the planet is the Taiwan Strait, where, he says, the question of Taiwan's long estrangement from mainland China is a tinderbox for war between the United States and China. But he seems uninterested in political subtleties in each society, especially on Taiwan, where the majority seeks to maintain the status quo until political evolution on the mainland makes the question of unification, or permanent separation, clearer and safer. Meanwhile, Chinese businessmen continue to intertwine the two economies with tens of billions of dollars in trade and investment, a significant disincentive for war. Mandelbaum also fails to explain why the standoff over Kashmir between the two nuclear powers India and Pakistan is less dangerous, not more dangerous, than the Chinese situation. 
Russia is the other great danger, he says, but here, too, his analysis is open to question. His assertion that Russia might seize Ukraine and touch off a European war seems dated. There is a convincing case to be made that both Moscow and Kiev are anchoring themselves in the West on parallel tracks. While there are assimilation issues outstanding, especially for Russians in Ukraine, both countries have moved on, profoundly and pragmatically. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TERRORISM (89%); WRITERS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); COLD WAR (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); LITERATURE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (65%); RELIGION (62%); PEACE PROCESS (53%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) TYLER, PATRICK E; MANDELBAUM, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (78%)

TITLE: IDEAS THAT CONQUERED THE WORLD, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



581 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2040 words

HEADLINE: No Ill Wind in Hood River 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN G. HAUSER; SUSAN G. HAUSER lives in Portland, Ore.

 BODY:
ON a sunny afternoon in May, I was strolling through the weekly Saturday Market in Hood River, Ore., when a great gust of wind came swooshing through the parking lot where it is held. The vendors selling produce and crafts seemed well prepared. A few stretched out their hands to secure a precarious item or two, but most of the goods were already properly weighted or tethered. 
 I know this wind well; many years ago, when I hit this point on the Columbia River Gorge, my little VW Bug began to resemble Dorothy's house in "The Wizard of Oz." For a moment or two, I was flying. 
 I can't recommend that weightless sensation to drivers of small vehicles, but in the last 20 years, thousands of windsurfers have made the pilgrimage to Hood River, around an hour east of Portland, so that they too could fly. Thanks to that mighty wind barreling through the gorge, Hood River is considered one of the best windsurfing sites on earth and now is attracting practitioners of the next generation of solo, high-speed water sports, kiteboarding, which uses parachutelike kites as sails. 
Both windsurfers and kiteboarders are featured at the annual Gorge Games each July, with competition for prize money in those sports and others, including kayaking, mountain biking and trail running. 
Across the street from the Saturday Market, the local brewery, Full Sail, has a fine vantage point of the action on the river from its tasting room and adjoining deck. From there, it looks as if a swarm of colorful dragonflies is hovering above the choppy waves. It's just the usual view on a sunny day in Hood River: scores of surfers riding the waves and flying through the air, their sails and kites billowing in the wind. 
Windsurfing continues to breathe life into Hood River, aiding the economy and giving the town of about 6,000 an increasing level of sophistication. This once-pastoral farming and logging community now has a half-dozen or so fine restaurants, mostly because some of the food-conscious athletes, attracted by the quality of life, decided to make it their home.
One is Maui Meyer, a world-class windsurfer and a writer for American Windsurfer Magazine, who happens to have trained as a restaurateur at Cornell University. He first rode the waves here in 1984; in 1992, he opened the Sixth Street Bistro and Loft, serving Pacific Northwest fare, featuring seafood and local produce with Pan Asian touches. Other than the dining room at the Columbia Gorge Hotel, it was the first local restaurant to offer sophisticated fare. 
Following in his footsteps were Brian McNamara, originally from Philadelphia, who opened Brian's Pourhouse, also serving Pacific Northwest fare, in 1998, and Mark DeResta from Rhode Island, who a year ago opened Abruzzo Italian Grill.
Mike Caldwell was the only local boy to join the foodie pantheon. After working as headwaiter at the restaurant of the Columbia Gorge Hotel and as a winemaker at one of the two Hood River wineries, he and his wife, Shawna, opened three highly rated restaurants starting in 1998. Two remain: the North Oak Brasserie (northern Italian and southern French) and Stonehedge Gardens (steak and seafood). 
As Mr. Caldwell, who comes from a family of loggers, will testify, it took awhile for the local residents to accept the changes brought about by the well-heeled sportsmen who began flocking to Hood River to windsurf, fly-fish or ski year-round at nearby Mount Hood. "We're very fortunate that the sport of choice is very high end," he said. 
But the orchardists are getting into the act. 
"We have farmers here that go back for generations and they windsurf," Mr. Caldwell said. "And the best mountain biker in town is Craig McCurdy," an owner of McCurdy Farms.
Many of the farms are part of what is known as the Fruit Loop, an assortment of Hood River Valley fruit orchards, roadside fruit stands, country markets, wineries and even an alpaca farm that open their operations to visitors. Members offer sights, tastes and activities that would tempt a windsurfer to park his or her board for the day, hop on a mountain bike and follow the 35-mile route from farm to farm through stunningly beautiful country. 
By bike or car, the Fruit Loop route offers magnificent views. Snowy Mount Hood rises 11,239 feet about 30 miles to the south, and beyond the thousands of acres of orchards to the north lies Mount Adams (12,276 feet), another snowy peak of the Cascade Mountain Range, across the Columbia River in Washington State. In between is the Hood River Valley, home to more than 300 fruit farms, nearly all family owned for generations.
In April, the multitude of trees is bursting with small white blossoms and framed by the two huge, white-mantled mountains. 
Fruit Loop visitors can tour orchards and pick their own fruit in summer and fall, depending on what's in season. 
Hood River is one of the largest pear-growing districts in the world, especially winter pears, so look for plenty of Anjou, Bosc and Comice pears in the fall. Bartletts ripen in late summer, along with peaches and Gravenstein apples. Several varieties of cherries ripen in July and August, and more varieties of apples in September and October.
Many of the farms and roadside stands also sell homemade jams, jellies and other products. On the edge of town, McCurdy Farms offers a rather unusual product: eau de vie de poire, pear brandy made by Portland's acclaimed Clear Creek Distillery and containing a pear in each bottle. 
The bottles are placed over budding pears in early May, removed in August with full-grown pears inside and filled with brandy distilled from the mash of local Bartlett bears. They sell for $80 each ($32 sans pear). 
Many of the fruit growers sell their products at Hood River's Saturday Market, from mid-May to mid-October, and at the many fruit-related festivals that fill the calendar. There's the Blossom Festival in April; the Pear and Wine Festival in May, and Cherry Days in July, as well as the county fair at the end of July. Gravenstein Apple Days are in August and the Harvest Fest is in October. 
Another way to see the fruit-growing areas is to ride the Mount Hood Railroad. From the Craftsman-style 1911 train station in downtown Hood River, next to the restored 1912 Hood River Hotel, it makes four-hour round-trip excursions through the valley and into the foothills of Mount Hood, passing numerous orchards. Dinner and brunch trips are available on weekends.
Downtown Hood River, which rises steeply from the Columbia River to an area called the Heights, has numerous historic buildings built from 1893 to the 1930's. Many of these now house the trendy shops and galleries that cater to the young, sophisticated, athletic set. 
Other than the train, there is a paucity of tourist attractions in town, the notable exception being the International Museum of Carousel Art, in a former bank. It contains about 120 carousel animals from the collection of 750 of Duane and Carol Perron.
There are horses galore, many carved by Charles Looff. The oldest animal is an 1876 blue heron; the most rare is an 1885 sea horse carved by the Dentzel Company.
Just west of downtown is the Spanish-style Columbia Gorge Hotel, sitting on a bluff next to a 208-foot waterfall that gushes to the river below. The hotel was built in 1921 to provide lodging for the adventurous motorists who were steering their Fords through the gorge on the Columbia River Highway, completed in 1915. It is an elegant, antique-filled hotel, famous for its filling, five-course farm breakfast.
A popular new event downtown is First Friday, when the shops stay open late to showcase work of local artists and musicians. Among them are a fine bookstore, the Waucoma; a large cookware shop called Annz Panz; and numerous coffee bars, jewelers and galleries. In addition, there are lots and lots of stores selling or renting athletic equipment.
Those needing a mountain bike can choose from four shops. There are even more for windsurfers, whose names (Storm Warning, Second Wind, Big Winds, Windance, Windwing, Windwear, Airtime, Shred Threads) reflect the reverence for the wind that roars down the river like a locomotive.
In the old days, local residents didn't think that much about the wind. It was just something that gave the occasional VW Bug driver an unexpected thrill. Now, more Hood River denizens recognize the roar of the wind as the sound of their community being revitalized. 
The derisive jokes about boardheads have stopped, too, as more orchardists have taken up the sport. At Flerchinger Vineyards, visitors to the tasting room can even raise a glass of Bordheauxd Red.

A picturesque place to ride the wind or pick some fruit

Getting There
Hood River is an hour's drive east of Portland along the Columbia River on Interstate 84.You can also take the slower scenic route partway, along a 24-mile stretch of the historic Columbia River Highway (Route 30), from just east of Troutdale to a few miles after Multnomah Falls. For more information, including a list of festivals, call the Hood River County Chamber of Commerce, (800) 366-3530, or see www.hoodriver.org.

Where to Stay
The Columbia Gorge Hotel, 4000 Westcliff Drive, (800) 345-1921, fax (541) 386-9141, www.ColumbiaGorgeHotel.com, was built in 1921. This elegant Spanish-style hotel has 40 rooms and beautiful gardens overlooking the river. Doubles are $189 to $279.
The Hood River Hotel, 102 Oak Street, (800) 386-1859, fax (541) 386-6090, www .HoodRiverHotel.com, is a charming, European-style hotel with a fine restaurant, Pasquale's. The 41 rooms are furnished with antique reproductions. Doubles, $69 to $169.
Beryl House Bed and Breakfast, 4079 Barrett Drive, (541) 386-5567, fax (541) 387-8833, www.berylhouse.com, is a 1906 farmhouse four miles south of downtown surrounded by a working pear orchard. There are four guest rooms and two shared baths, and doubles are $85.

Where to Eat
Sixth Street Bistro and Loft, 509 Cascade Avenue, (541) 386-5737, serves lunch and dinner daily in the pub upstairs or in the intimate dining room downstairs. Among the offerings are ribeye steak with garlic mashed potatoes and sauteed kale. Dinner for two with wine, about $50.
Abruzzo Italian Grill, 1810 West Cascade Avenue, (541) 386-7779, offers dinner Tuesday through Saturday. On the menu are fresh grilled halibut over morel mushrooms and farro topped with organic arugula and white truffle oil. Dinner for two with wine, $40.
Brian's Pourhouse, 606 Oak Street, (541)-387-4344, www.brianspourhouse.com, offers lunch and dinner daily, and Sunday brunch. Dinner choices include gorgonzola-stuffed pork loin with apple brandy sauce and potato pancakes. Dinner for two with wine, $45.
North Oak Brasserie, 113 Third Street, (541)387-2310, serves dinner daily and lunch on weekdays in a basement bistro. The menu includes things like potato gnocchi with bacon and fontina cheese. Dinner for two with wine, $45.
Stonehedge Gardens, 3405 Cascade Avenue, (541) 386-3940, has dinner daily in an 1898 home with cobblestone terraces. A specialty is seared ahi tuna with wasabi creme fraiche. Dinner for two with wine, $60.

What to See and Do
The Hood River Fruit Loop passes by 25 member orchards, farm stands, bakeries and vineyards in and around Hood River. Information: (541) 386-7697, fax (541) 386-7315, or www.hoodriverfruitloop.com.
International Museum of Carousel Art, 304 Oak Street, (541) 387-4622, www
.carouselmuseum.com, is open Wednesday to Sunday afternoons. Admission: $5, age 10 and under, $2.
Mount Hood Railroad, 110 Railroad Avenue, (800) 872-4661, www.mthoodrr.com, offers a four-hour excursion from March to the week before Christmas for $23 and $15 for children 2 to 12. There are also dinner ($70) and brunch ($57) trips. Trains leave daily except Monday and Tuesday at 10 a.m., with a second run at 3 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
Flerchinger Vineyards and Winery, 4200 Post Canyon Drive, (800) 516-8710, has free tastings daily.
Hood River Vineyards, 4693 Westwood Drive, (541) 386-3772, is open for free tastings daily from March to November.
Full Sail Brewing Company, 506 Columbia Street, (541) 386-2281, www.fullsailbrewing.com, has 20-minute tours hourly, noon to 5 p.m. Its pub is open daily noon to 9 p.m. Burgers and beers for two about $15.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Columbia Gorge Hotel, 210 feet above the river. Rasmussen Farms, part of the Fruit Loop. (Photographs by Susan Seubert for The New York Times)(pg. 12); The Mount Hood Railroad train makes four-hour round-trip excursions through the valley from the town of Hood River, Ore. The Columbia River Gorge winds have made Hood River a top location for windsurfing. The deck of the Full Sail Brewery. Country Faire Fruit Market is one of 25 stops on the Fruit Loop. Maui Meyer at his restaurant, Sixth Street Bistro and Loft. (Photographs, all for The New York Times, by Wesley Hitt/Icon SMI windsurfers and Susan Seubert)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SPORTS (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); SURFING (90%); SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); RESTAURANTS (85%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (75%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (71%); RUNNING (66%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (62%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (61%); WRITERS (60%); CYCLING (51%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; WINDSURFING 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%)

PERSON: HAUSER, SUSAN G 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) NORTHWEST USA (90%); WEST USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) HOOD RIVER (ORE); OREGON

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



582 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 9-22-02: MAP: THE ONE-COMPANY TOWN; 
The Big Business of Small Towns

BYLINE:  By J.R. Romanko 

 BODY:
 The town of Hershey, Pa., no doubt breathed a sugared sigh of relief earlier this month when a county court blocked a proposed sale of Hershey Foods on the grounds that selling the candy maker might cause the community "irreparable harm." Rural Coudersport, Pa., knows this fear well: its largest employer, the giant cable operator Adelphia, declared bankruptcy in June. But that is the ever-present threat confronting the "one-company town," that smaller American town or city whose identity and economic future is so intertwined with the large business headquartered there. (Sometimes, of course, a place outgrows its dependence, if not its ties; Battle Creek, Mich. -- a k a "Cereal City" -- will always be a Kellogg town, even if in recent years the Japanese car-part manufacturer Denso has become Battle Creek's largest employer.) Shown here are some other one-company towns -- some familiar, some less so -- whose fates are bound up in the big business done there. J.R. Romanko

1.Phillips Petroleum, Bartlesville, Okla. Pop.: 34,748.
Local employees: approx. 2,400.
2.Leggett & Platt, industrial-materials maker. Carthage, Mo.
Pop.: 12,668. Local employees: 2,169.
3.Wal-Mart, discount retailer. Bentonville, Ark. Pop.: 19,730.
Local employees: 20,000.
4.Tyson Foods, meat processor. Springdale, Ark. Pop.: 45,798.
Local employees: approx. 3,200.
5.Maytag, appliance maker.
Newton, Iowa. Pop.: 15,579.
Local employees: 4,000.
6.Pella, window and door maker.
Pella, Iowa. Pop.: 9,832.
Local employees: approx. 3,000.
7.Hormel Foods, meat processor. Austin, Minn. Pop.: 23,314.
Local employees: approx. 2,100.
8.Lands' End, catalog retailer. Dodgeville, Wisc. Pop.: 4,220.
Local employees: 4,354
9.WorldCom, communications carrier. Clinton, Miss. Pop.: 23,347.
Local employees: approx. 900.
10.Whirlpool, appliance maker. Benton Harbor, Mich. Pop.: 11,182. Local employees: approx. 2,700
11.Kellogg, cereal producer.
Battle Creek, Mich. Pop.: 53,364.
Local employees: 1,650.
12.Dow Chemical,
Midland, Mich. Pop.: 41,685.
Local employees: approx. 6,000.
13.Mohawk Industries, carpet maker. Calhoun, Ga. Pop.: 10,667.
Local employees: 2,793.
14.J.M. Smucker, fruit-spread maker. Orrville, Ohio. Pop.: 8,551. Local employees: 660.
15.Adelphia Communications,
cable operator. Coudersport, Pa. Pop.: 2,650. Local employees: 1,500.
16.Corning, optical-fiber and cable maker. Corning, N.Y. Pop.: 10,842. Local employees: 5,200.
17.Hershey Foods, candy maker. Hershey, Pa. Pop.: 12,771.
Local employees: 6,200.
18.Smithfield Foods,
pork producer. Smithfield, Va.
Pop.: 6,324. Local employees: 4,511.
19.Timberland, boot and clothing maker. Stratham, N.H. Pop.: 5,810. Local employees: 730.
20.L.L. Bean, catalog retailer. Freeport, Me. Pop.: 1,813.
Local employees: 1,600.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); RETAILERS (78%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); PORK (73%); WINDOW & DOOR MFG (72%); APPAREL MFG (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (70%); CHEMICALS (68%); FIBER OPTICS (62%); FLOORING (50%) URBAN AREAS; CORPORATIONS 

COMPANY: MARS INC (92%); KELLOGG CO (74%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (68%); TIME WARNER INC (57%); LEGGETT & PLATT INC (55%); PELLA WINDOW & DOOR CO (54%); TYSON FOODS INC (54%); WORLDCOM COMMUNICATIONS (53%); MOHAWK INDUSTRIES INC (52%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (52%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (50%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (74%); COP (NYSE) (68%); TWX (NYSE) (57%); LEG (NYSE) (55%); TSN (NYSE) (54%); MHK (NYSE) (52%); DOW (SWX) (52%); DOW (NYSE) (52%); DOW (LSE) (52%); 4850 (TSE) (52%); SFD (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (74%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (74%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (74%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (68%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (68%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (68%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (68%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (68%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS337910 MATTRESS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (55%); NAICS331222 STEEL WIRE DRAWING (55%); NAICS423310 LUMBER, PLYWOOD, MILLWORK & WOOD PANEL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); SIC2431 MILLWORK (54%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (54%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (54%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (54%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (54%); NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS321918 OTHER MILLWORK (INCLUDING FLOORING) (52%); NAICS314110 CARPET & RUG MILLS (52%); SIC3996 LINOLEUM, ASPHALTED-FELT-BASE, & OTHER HARD SURFACE FLOOR COVERINGS, NEC (52%); SIC3253 CERAMIC WALL & FLOOR TILE (52%); SIC2273 CARPETS & RUGS (52%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (50%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



583 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Cos Cob; 
A Quiet Villagelike Section of Greenwich

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
OF the 15 neighborhoods that make up Greenwich's 50 square miles, one, running north-south along the eastern side of town, has a name that is said to be unique: Cos Cob. Nobody knows what it means, although the Greenwich Historical Society has been sifting through a mass of conjectures about Indian chiefs, Indian words, early settlers' names, 17th-century Dutch words and so on for years.
 The neighborhood itself is somewhat of an aberration for Greenwich -- a quieter, more villagelike part of town with few of the estates, celebrity residents or personal wealth of greater Greenwich. 
 Its community spirit, which survived two severe floods in the 30's and 50's and several destructive fires, asserted itself again when its library, housed at various times in a school, over a supermarket and in a store front, ran out of locations, was cut from the town's library budget and threatened with extinction. 
Although there is a large and superbly equipped main libraryin downtown Greenwich, Cos Cob wanted its own and spent 15 years raising $1.3 million locally, in small amounts, to purchase a piece of property on Sinoway Road and build a 5,000-square-foot library. It opened in 1999, and 631 bricks in its walkway are inscribed with the names of the donors. 
"It's a very close-knit community," said Rowland Harris, a second-generation real estate agent, now semiretired. "Everybody is friendly, and we have everything we want right here." R. M. Harris Realty, the only real estate office in Cob Cob, is over a plumbing shop on the Drenckhahn Boatyard property on River Road. Mr. Harris's father brought the family to Cos Cob in 1923, when they lived over the Diamond Hill Liquor Store. Their prospering real estate and insurance business financed a move to a three-bedroom house on a 50-by-200-foot lot on Valley Road. "In 1965 we sold it for $23,000," Mr. Harris said. "It changed hands several times and sold recently for $773,000."
Those figures portend a Cos Cob more like the rest of Greenwich. Gloria Meyering, a broker at Prudential Connecticut in Old Greenwich, said: "Cos Cob has traditionally been considered the backbone of the middle economic group of Greenwich, but prices have gone so high and continue to climb. I have not been able to find anything for three clients looking for something between $300,000 and $400,000," a former benchmark for a medium-priced house.
"With prices rising all over town, you still get more house for your money than anywhere else in Greenwich," said Pam Chiapetta, broker at Coldwell Banker in Old Greenwich. "Not everybody is a millionaire. We still have a strong middle class and a cross section of blue- and white-collar people." 
Her office manager, Nancy MacDonald, citing the lack of inventory in an overheated market, said: "There are only 28 listings of single family homes, and they are priced from $569,000 to $3.25 million. Out of Cos Cob's 22 condominium complexes only four or five units are available, ranging from $389,000 to $725,000."
In the past three years, Joe Pagliarulo, a local builder, has found a niche for himself in Cos Cob's new luxury market. He has built a half-dozen 6,500- and 7,000-square-foot homes on two- and three-acre parcels with tennis courts and swimming pools along Stanwich and Cognewaugh Roads. Priced from $1.4 million to $3.1 million, they sell as fast as they are built.
With handsome profits to be made within the neighborhood, some elect to stay there, moving up from one house to another. Two and a half years ago, Wayne and Suzanne Sullivan bought a small older house and recently made a $200,000 profit selling it, enabling them buy a larger, more costly home on Valleywood Road where they plan to raise a family. Valleywood, Mead Avenue and Valley Road are among the most desirable addresses in Cos Cob. Mr. Sullivan considers Greenwich real estate a blue-chip investment and Cos Cob a bonus in ambience. "I think the people are a little different here," he said, "a little nicer than in other parts of Greenwich where we looked." 
Shops, services and restaurants on a section of the Post Road called the Hub supply everything Cos Cobbers may need. Anything more, from Saks Fifth Avenue to the Greenwich Furniture Barn to three-star restaurants, can be found among the more than 150 establishments in downtown Greenwich.
While most of Cos Cob is inland, its Mianus Riverfront, Cos Cob Harbor and proximity to Long Island Sound have perpetuated a relationship with the water that began in the 18th and 19th centuries, when it was a major commercial shipping port. Potatoes, onions and apples, about all that would grow in the rocky soil, were transported by ship from Cos Cob Harbor to New York City. But the industry declined with the advent of the railroad in the mid-1800's and disappeared entirely when the harbor's depth was compromised irreparably by the damming of the Mianus River. 
TODAY fishing, recreational boating and charter trips have replaced the packet boats, and marinas are lined up on River Road. Beacon Point is the largest, with 250 slips at $95 a foot per season and a Fishermen's Pro Shop where live and frozen bait, fishing licenses and gear may be purchased. Rick Kral, the owner, also owns Cos Cob's only hostelry, the Cos Cob Inn, originally an 1870's rooming house, with 14 rooms across River Road from his marina. "It's set up for couples," he said, "quaint and romantic." Rates for two are $99 to $249 with continental breakfast. Jacuzzis, private porches, sitting rooms, working fireplaces, modems and voice mail are standard in some rooms and suites.
Boat owners may also apply for membership at one of Greenwich's five yacht clubs, none located in Cos Cob. Those with more limited resources can avail themselves of the Mianus River Club, Cos Cob's town-owned marina, where launching costs $50 a season. "If you don't come in around April 15 for a launching permit, you probably won't get one -- they go so fast," said Fred Walters, superintendent of marine and facility operations. A limit of 15 permits are sold annually to out-of-towners. Dockage for boats up to 35 feet runs from $240 to about $2,000, depending on size. 
Cos Cob residents have access to all Greenwich recreational facilities, including the town-owned Griffith E. Harris 18-hole golf course, named for Rowland Harris's brother, "Griff," who was first selectman from 1952 to 1958. Fees are $85 a season, with a $15 greens fee per round for residents 18 to 64 years of age, or $45 and $11 for people over 64. Nonresidents pay a $45 greens fee per round. There are also five private country clubs in Greenwich.
A sampling of the plethora of recreational activity includes ice skating at the Dorothy Hamill Rink at $4 an hour, $2 for children, and tennis and paddle tennis at $15 a season at several locations, including Central Junior High School, Lockland Avenue Park and Bible Street Park in Cos Cob. Greenwich's only lighted platform-tennis court is in Cos Cob, where one-hour sessions once a week from October to March cost $200. 
While Cos Cos has no beach, Greenwich Point, Byram and Great Captain's Island Beaches are open to town residents with $20 seasonal parking passes. Nonresidents may visit Greenwich Point with daily parking passes of $10 on weekdays and $20 on weekends, purchased Monday through Friday at Town Hall. 
Exemplifying Greenwich's high priority for broad-based education, Cos Cob Elementary School, with 450 pupils in kindergarten through fifth grade on a 6.4-acre campus, offers a talented and gifted program, learning disability resources, science laboratory, fine arts and music, a media center, cafeteria that doubles as a 450-seat auditorium with a stage; a before- and after-school child-care program, a double-sized gymnasium; and a baseball diamond.
Cos Cob's Central Middle School, which also serves children from nearby neighborhoods in Grade 6 through 8, has 740 students divided into groups of 8, each group assigned to a team of math, language arts, science and social studies teachers. The groupings are changed annually. "We feel it's essential to deinstitutionalize the school and in small groups we get to know the whole child," said Dr. James Bolger, the principal. Parents are required to come in at least once a year to meet with teachers.
ALL Greenwich public school students attend Greenwich High School, which is divided into four "houses," breaking down the student body of 2,000 into manageable groups. A $40 million science and technology wing was built in 1998. In addition to the traditional curriculum, the offerings include a course in leadership skills, a dance studio for boys and girls, ceramics, engineering, electronic music, Web site creation, photography and a robotics club, where robots are built for regional and national competitions. Among 35 varsity sports are water polo, fencing, rugby and sailing, which takes place at the Indian Harbor Yacht Club. College Board scores for 2002 of 549 verbal and 567 math exceeded state and national averages by 40 to 51 points. 
Among the best known private schools are Brunswick for boys and Greenwich Academy for girls. Upper grades of the two schools are joined in coeducational classes. Greenwich Country Day, the Convent of the Sacred Heart and Whitby Montessori School are some of the others, none located in Cos Cob. Fees range from $13,000 to $20,400 a year. At the Greenwich Catholic School, which runs from pre-K through eighth grade, tuition is $5,000 to $5,900. 
One of the town's most visited attractions is the 1730 Bush-Holley House complex overlooking Cos Cob harbor, a national landmark where the Cos Cob Impressionists stayed and painted each summer from 1890 to 1920. Childe Hassam, John Twachtman, William Merritt Chase, J. Alden Weir and Theodore Robinson were among the regulars, sometimes joined by Willa Cather and other writers. Holley was the name of the boarding house landlord who sold the property to the Historical Society in 1957, but the name Bush has no connection to the family of President Bush, some of whom still live in the town. It was Anglicized from Hendrik Bosch, the original Danish settler.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Cos Cob waterfront, above. A home along Strickland Avenue, below left. And below right, the downtown area, which is called the Hub. Nobody knows what the name Cos Cob means.; 2-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath condo at 453 East Putnam Avenue, $485,000. 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath colonial at 16 Suburban Avenue, $695,000. 4-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath colonial at 23 Cat Rock Road, $1.899 million. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) Chart: "GAZETTEER" On the Market POPULATION: 6,495 (2000 Census).AREA: 2.93 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $108,344.MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $765,000.TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $5,582.MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $750,000.MEDIAN PRICE FOUR YEARS AGO: $630,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF A TWO-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $434,000.PUBLIC SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $12,353.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 34 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 55 minutes on Metro-North. One-way, peak hours, $9; off-peak hours, $6.75; monthly, $196.GOVERNMENT: First selectman (Richard V. Bergstresser, Democrat), two other members of the Board of Selectmen and the 230-member Representative Town Meeting, all elected to two-year terms.CODES: Area, 203: ZIP, 06807.STATE OF THE ESTATES: Cos Cob has not been without its large estates and wealthy people. For example, Col. Robert Montgomery, who collected as many cone-bearing species of trees as he could find, gave his 62-acre property on Bible Street to the town in 1953 as a garden education center called the Montgomery Pinetum. Workshops, trips, classes, lectures and the May Market plant sale are held there annually. The author and naturalist Ernest Thompson Seton established a forerunner of the Boy Scouts on his Orchard Street property in the early 1900's, where Cos Cob schoolboys were taught Indian crafts and self-reliance. His wife, Grace, was a writer and a founder of American Pen Women; their daughter, Anya Seton, was a popular novelist. In 1912 the estate was sold to Maurice Wertheim, a wealthy New Yorker. His daughter, Barbara W. Tuchman, the Pulitzer Prize-winning historian, had three daughters, two of whom are suing each other over the division of the proceeds from the pending sale of 43 acres to the town, which has a contract to purchase the property. A trial in Stamford Superior Court is expected in October. The town has already bought 70 contiguous acres from the Pomerantz family, relatives of the sisters. The town will spend $35 million on the 113 acres. Map of Connecticut highlighting Cos Cob.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (87%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); HISTORY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); LIBRARIES (69%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); PLUMBING SUPPLY STORES (68%); HOME PRICES (67%); FLOODS & FLOODING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



584 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
Langston Hughes Meets Damon Runyon, Eventfully

BYLINE:  By MARJORIE ROSEN 

 BODY:
SETBACKS, splintered hopes, crazy risks.
 Hardly a musical has come to town that has not had to clear hurdles as high as an elephant's eye, and "Little Ham," which opens on Thursday at the John Houseman Theater, is no exception. 
 Billed as a "jazzical," this fable, based on Langston Hughes's obscure 1936 folk comedy of the same name, is about inhabitants of a Depression-era Harlem neighborhood who, led by a rogue named Hamlet Hitchcock Jones, must reclaim their beloved numbers game from two flea-brained mobsters. At the Hudson Guild in Chelsea, where it had a showcase last December, "Little Ham" won raves. Bruce Weber, in The New York Times, called it "a jazzy musical bauble with nothing to recommend it but fine songs, a cast with sass and charm and an attractive, modest production." It would, he suggested, make a fine last-minute Christmas gift.
This is the kind of review producers fantasize about, since it is usually sure-fire bait for backers. Yet in this post-Enron, post-Sept. 11 and post-dot-com economy, finding investors for any show can be a roll of the dice. Worse, while Broadway revues featuring black performers and songwriters, like "Ain't Misbehavin' " and "Sophisticated Ladies," have enjoyed success, most original shows about black life fight a losing battle for audiences. 
But Eric Krebs, the producer of "Little Ham," insists that his show has universal appeal. "This is not a black musical in the sense that it deals only with black issues," he said. "It's about little people getting inspired to overcome obstacles in our society and disenfranchised people trying to climb into the mainstream."
"Little Ham" began its own journey into the mainstream in 1985, when Mr. Krebs, who has taught theater at Rutgers for 33 years, was searching for a play for his students to read. He came across Mr. Hughes's comedy and, beguiled, immediately showed it to his friend Judd Woldin, the Tony- and Grammy-winning composer of "Raisin," the 1974 musical based on Lorraine Hansberry's play "Raisin in the Sun."
Mr. Woldin, who had worked with Mr. Krebs on a failed musical, "King of Schnorrers," took "Little Ham" with him on a train trip to Florida. By the time he returned, he says, he was so inspired that he wrote eight songs.
A few months later, Mr. Woldin and Mr. Krebs held a staged reading of "Little Ham" at the George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick, N.J., where Mr. Krebs was artistic director. Mr. Woldin rearranged Mr. Hughes's text and introduced 14 songs. But Mr. Woldin's lyrics were inconsistent, and the play creaked. So he contacted the lyricist Richard Engquist, with whom he had collaborated on a musical, "Lorenzo," about Mozart's librettist, Lorenzo da Ponte, in 1981.
"I had just seen Richard's musical 'Kuni Leml,' and his rhymes were so brilliant, every one just snapped like a bullwhip," Mr. Woldin said. "I played him my score, and he said: 'Judd, half your lyrics are fine. The other half I can improve. But we've got to write some new ones.' And that's the way it turned out."
The creative team also enlisted Dan Owens to write the book. Mr. Owens, a graduate of the Yale School of Drama whose plays have been produced by the Negro Ensemble and the Afro-American Studio Theater, was working for the New York City Human Resources Administration. He met with his "Little Ham" collaborators during lunch hours. His mandate was to freshen up Mr. Hughes's play.
"When I looked at it," Mr. Owens said from Seattle, where he now lives, "I thought about 'Guys and Dolls.' So I said, 'Yes, it's Harlem, yes, it's Langston Hughes, but let's bring another flavor to it: Damon Runyon.' Langston Hughes wrote a more naturalistic kind of theater. I was just trying to make his characters bigger -- and funnier." Eventually, at Mr. Woldin's suggestion, Mr. Owens created a white villain, Louis (The Nail) Mahoney, and strengthened the title character, Ham, a former shoeshine boy who eventually saves Harlem and finds love with the unattainable beautician Miss Tiny Lee.
This new "Little Ham" was staged at the George Street in 1987. "We all felt very good about it," Mr. Owens said, "but we knew it still needed work."
So the collaborators made changes -- "missteps," Mr. Owens now calls them -- for a two-week run that fall at the Westport Country Playhouse in Connecticut. The reception was disastrous, Mr. Engquist said, and "Little Ham" languished. The writers went on to other projects, and Mr. Krebs, distracted by more pressing ventures, lost the rights. "Every year, I'd call the agent," he said. "Finally, two years ago, she said, 'Yup, the option is available again.' "
Then, serendipity of sorts. Donna Trinkoff, the artistic director of the nonprofit Amas Musical Theater, which is devoted to producing multiracial projects, suggested to Mr. Krebs, who is chairman of the Amas board, that the company showcase "Little Ham" at the Hudson Guild. Mr. Krebs invested about $150,000, and the fledgling director Eric Riley, the choreographer Leslie Dockery and the conductor David Alan Bunn joined the effort.
Mr. Riley, who had been an actor and dancer in shows like "Ain't Misbehavin' " and "Once on This Island," wanted "to avoid making the characters cartoons," he said. "I didn't want people to feel that they weren't human. There's a certain strength about these people who take back their neighborhood." Mr. Riley also breathed new life into songs like "On the Side of the Angels," which, he said, "screamed out to be a gospel number."
In contrast to Mr. Riley, the songwriters were veterans. Mr. Woldin has written seven musicals. "Raisin," the most visible, took 10 years to get to Broadway, in part because investors were wary of backing a black musical. What's more, he says, the play's producer, Robert Nemiroff, who was also Ms. Hansberry's widower, was inexperienced.
"Even though we got 40 rave reviews, the show never went into the black," Mr. Woldin added. "So I had a musical on Broadway for two years and then two on the road, and I had to waive royalties to keep it going."
But the worst part was the dashed expectations. "You think you've rolled the stone up the mountain, only to find you're in worse shape than before," he said. "It was very serious, and I went into a terrible depression."
Mr. Woldin's most recent musical, "The Prince and the Pauper," was produced late last year in Seattle and St. Paul -- "to standing ovations," he reported.
Mr. Engquist, the lyricist, joined the conductor Lehman Engel's Musical Theater Workshop in 1972, "as a fluke," he said. A former magazine and book editor who now teaches at the workshop, he added: "At the time, I was staying home and taking care of my small children while my wife, a professional writer, was supporting the family. And I got caught up in lyric-writing." Since then, he has written lyrics for 25 shows. But only one was a financial success: "Kuni Leml," which won four Outer Critics Circle Awards.
Did Mr. Woldin or Mr. Engquist have reservations about being white and writing a black musical? "Never," Mr. Woldin said. As a teenager, he played piano with a black jazz band at the Club Caravan, a Greenwich Village strip joint. Later, he was in house bands featuring musicians like Coleman Hawkins, he arranged two albums for Lionel Hampton, and for 17 years he had his own jazz trio at Windows on the World. "Of all my shows, 'Little Ham' was the most natural," he added. "Anybody who writes a musical has to accept the responsibility of getting into whatever is required."
Mr. Engquist said: "Some people say I've got a lot of nerve trying to write for black people. I say, 'Well, I've written six shows for Jewish people, and I'm a Minnesota Swede.' You've got to be able to write for anybody."
After the rosy reviews last winter, Mr. Krebs coveted a Broadway production, but in the wake of Sept. 11, he couldn't raise the necessary $3.5 million. So he booked "Little Ham" into an Off Broadway theater, the John Houseman, which he himself built and holds a long-term lease on, and budgeted it at $750,000. Even so, investors were scarce, and Mr. Krebs initially put up $150,000 of his own. But in recent weeks, backers have been buzzing around like bees to honey. "By the opening," he said, "none of the money invested may be mine."
For him, every gamble along the way was a no-brainer. "This show," he said, "is simply too good not to let happen."

Little Ham
John Houseman Theater, 450 West 42nd Street. In previews; opens Thursday.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Page 9 of Arts & Leisure today with an article about the musical "Little Ham" reverses the identities of two members of the creative team. Richard Engquist, a lyricist, is in the center and Judd Woldin, the composer and a lyricist, at the right.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andre Garner (as Little Ham) with, clockwise, Joy Styles, Joe Wilson Jr., Lee Summers, Cheryl Alexander, D'Ambrose Boyd, Christopher Morgan and Brenda Braxton in the musical "Little Ham," which opens this week at the John Houseman Theater. (Richard Termine for The New York Times)(pg. 7); Dan Owens, the writer of "Little Ham," left; Judd Woldin, the composer and co-lyricist, center, and Richard Engquist, co-lyricist. (Richard Termine for The New York Times); (Irenne Hopman)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); SONG WRITING (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHRISTMAS (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (55%) THEATER 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: ROSEN, MARJORIE; KREBS, ERIC; WOLDIN, JUDD; ENGQUIST, RICHARD; OWENS, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: LITTLE HAM (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



585 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
New Yorkers Now, Their Gifts Were Nurtured in Texas

BYLINE:  By EDWARD M. GOMEZ 

 BODY:
SEVERAL fast-emerging artists in New York have been generating the kind of creative heat that tends to catch the art world's attention -- and lately has. All of them -- Susie Rosmarin, Giles Lyon, Jeff Elrod and Julie Mehretu -- are painters, and their work, ideas and personalities are unmistakably varied. But their professional histories have something in common, perhaps unexpectedly: strong, formative links to Texas, specifically to Houston's vibrant art scene.
 "In Houston, there's a lot going on, but you're never overwhelmed by all the art that's available," said Ms. Rosmarin, a painter of bold, geometric abstractions who moved from Houston to New York four years ago. "There's no pressure to follow any dominant trend. It's easier to develop in a place like that." 
 Ms. Rosmarin's dealer in Houston, Fredericka Hunter, the director of the Texas Gallery, agrees. "Houstonians are especially nonhierarchical," she said, "without the social or economic restrictions you see, say, in Dallas. "For artists, if there's something they want to do, they can make it here." 
Ms. Hunter, who has been involved in Houston's contemporary-art scene for three decades, credited the city's museums for supporting local artists. "Curators are really tapped into the local scene, where interest in abstract or nonrepresentational painting has been especially strong."
Ms. Rosmarin's abstract work is on view in her first solo show in New York, at the Danese gallery. Before heading north, Ms. Rosmarin, 52, worked in the shipping and receiving department of Tootsie's, a women's clothing store in Houston run by her brother. Her paintings, with their energetic colored grids and stripes, have been influenced, she said, by the gingham checks and other fabrics she saw there. Recently she based a painting on a pattern on a miniskirt that caught her eye in Chinatown.
"My early paintings were more conceptual, more mathematical," she said at her studio in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn. "I liked Sol LeWitt's art and made my own 'all-the-variations-of' works based on geometric shapes." In black and white, Ms. Rosmarin painted the fuzzy gray "snow" of blank television screens, an early exercise in replicating random patterns in the everyday environment.
Later she developed a technique in which she marked off sections of canvases with narrow strips of masking tape. When painted over with acrylic, the canvases yielded precisely measured horizontal stripes after she removed the tape. By painting stripes in the same manner perpendicular to each previous layer of stripes, Ms. Rosmarin found that she could make either spontaneous or more controlled grid-based patterns that recalled woven or printed fabrics.
Well known among her peers as a disciplined artist who often experiments on small canvases before making larger ones, Ms. Rosmarin feels strongly, she said, that her work "is about sensation." 
"For a long time in science and art, we've mistrusted our senses," she added. "But there's no irony in my work. I'm interested in the experience of seeing. I've had it with postmodernist cynicism that doesn't allow you to appreciate painting or a painting as an object. I'm interested in what we know through our sensory perceptions." 
Ms. Rosmarin, who admires the hard-edged works of the veteran, tape-and-paint abstractionist Al Held, said she does not paint over errors. "If I make a visible mistake in a line of color, I don't fix it," she said. "It's all part of the process."
Giles Lyon said: "Susie's obsessed with process. As an artist, she's the real deal." 
Mr. Lyon, 35, who shows his wildly abstract, mixed-media canvases at Feigen Contemporary in Chelsea, got to know Ms. Rosmarin after he arrived in Houston in 1989 to take part in the Core Program at the Glassell School of Art, which is operated by the Museum of Fine Arts. Now celebrating its 20th anniversary, the artist-run Core Program provides young artists with stipends and studio spaces for up to two years. It has become one of the most renowned museum-sponsored residency programs in the United States. Recently it started accepting critic-curator participants, too.
In an interview at Feigen, Mr. Lyon, a buoyant and loquacious native of New Jersey, recalled that thanks to the Core Program, he and his fellow artists "could really dive in and not think about anything except our work." In the 1980's, he said, Houston's "nascent art scene" was nurtured by Core Program alumni who remained in the city after their residencies ended to start their professional careers.
"I was probably as influenced by the sky and the light and the space in Texas as I was by the people I met there," Mr. Lyon said. An admirer of the painter Philip Guston's cartoonish abstract art, he said: "I don't want a painting to be a picture. I would like it to be a thing." With titles like "King Kong Napalm" and "Star Stock," his thickly encrusted works on canvas feature biomorphic squiggles, scattered puddles of color, thickets of Dr. Seussesque protrusions and such collaged items as cut-up credit cards and his grandfather's old neckties. "I'm fascinated by all the complexity in the world today," Mr. Lyon said. "Essentially, my work is about sprawl."
By contrast, the work of Jeff Elrod, 35, a native of Texas and a Core Program alumnus from the early 1990's, seems less dynamic and more studied. Mr. Elrod, who shows his work at Leo Koenig Inc. in SoHo, earned an art degree at the University of North Texas in Denton at a time when the artist-teacher Vernon Fisher was regarded as especially influential there. (Mr. Fisher is known for a wide-ranging body of conceptualist works that often combine texts and images.)
To create his spare canvases of nearly all-over color, Mr. Elrod first makes sketches with computer-based drawing programs. Using projections and masking tape to "draw" razor-sharp lines, he transfers an image line for line to canvas. After rolling paint onto a canvas, he removes the tape to yield larger versions of his initial sketches. Technically and aesthetically, Mr. Elrod's work combines analog (that is, handmade) and digital (or high-tech).
"He's plugged into so many interesting ideas," Mr. Lyon said of the inventiveness and concentration that Mr. Elrod, his friend, brings to his work. "He's a maniac."
JULIE MEHRETU, 31, who was born in Ethiopia and grew up in Michigan, has made the evolving nature of urban space a central theme of her abstract paintings and drawings. A Core Program resident from 1997 to 1999, she now keeps a studio in Harlem near the Project, the gallery that represents her in New York.
Ms. Mehretu, who has lived around the world, is now exhibiting a large painting, "Retopistics: A Renegade Excavation" (2001), in "Out of Site," a group show at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo. She also just exhibited her work at the White Cube art space in London. 
"Houston offered a completely different visual experience," Ms. Mehretu said. "It was very open, sprawling, without a traditional center. I was there when, working backward, this largely suburban place renovated neighborhoods to create more of a downtown."
Ms. Mehretu uses a computer to make drawings or manipulate source material like architectural plans of airports, then she transfers this imagery to her canvases. Streams of dashes, arcing lines and colored forms swirl tempestuously in the broad pictorial space of her compositions.
While the imagery the artist uses in her work might refer to the actual built environment, she said she thinks of the marks she makes symbolically, "as agents that have character and behave in certain ways, as though they're constructing or deconstructing societies." Humans create and occupy many different kinds of spaces, Ms. Mehretu said. Her works seek to evoke the varied atmospheres and energies that characterize such constructed places.
The Core Program's current director, the sculptor Joseph Havel, attributes the number of notable artists Houston has turned out to its "very risk-taking, freewheeling" atmosphere. 
"At first, that's a little disconcerting," he added, "but it also creates opportunities. This program has exploded the art scene and really made it international."
Of course, only time will tell whether these artists' accomplishments, separately or together, will be short-lived or viewed as something more emblematic of the art of an era. For now, though, veteran art watchers like Adam Sheffer, Ms. Rosmarin's dealer at Danese, are beginning to sense an art-historical current that may have a discernible context, even without a name.
"Looking back," Mr. Sheffer said, "many important artists of the 1970's had studied at Yale, and many significant artists of the 1980's were associated with CalArts, in southern California. Who knows? Someday we may look back and see that for many important artists of this period, Houston was that special, influential place."

Susie Rosmarin
Danese,
41 East 57th Street.
Through Oct. 12.

Julie Mehretu
Out of Site, a group show.
New Museum of Contemporary Art,
583 Broadway.
Through Oct. 13.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "E-painting," 2002, an acrylic on canvas by Jeff Elrod. (Leo Koening); "Ruffian Logistics," 2001, by Julie Mehretu: swirling streams of dashes, arcing lines and colored forms. (The Project); "Star Stock," 2001-2, by Giles Lyon, who says his work is about "sprawl." (Feigen Contemporary)(pg. 1); The artist Susie Rosmarin with "Blue Bubble," at the Danese gallery in Manhattan. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (89%); FABRICS (86%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (63%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (50%) ART; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NYC) 

PERSON: GOMEZ, EDWARD M; ROSMARIN, SUSIE; MEHRETU, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



586 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Herzog Goes Hollywood? Yes, but Actually No

BYLINE:  By LISA ZEIDNER 

 BODY:
HE trekked up volcanoes about to erupt and waded through jungle rivers full of poisonous stingrays. He employed tribes of South American Indians as extras, hiring prostitutes to keep them happy on location; he shot scenes involving monkeys that made audiences wince long before there were "we've been kind to animals" disclaimers. For a generation of moviegoers, the German director Werner Herzog is the epitome of the fearless, visionary filmmaker. But to American audiences, at least, he has had rather a low profile recently. So it may be mostly loyal fans who will be shocked to learn where Mr. Herzog now lives: Los Angeles.
 Herzog in Hollywood? It seems about as likely as Sinatra in Sumatra. But Mr. Herzog, 60, says he loves the city. Furthermore, as his new movie, "Invincible," demonstrates, he has not lost his feel for the nightmare landscapes of his ancestral Europe. 
 He was two weeks old in 1942 when a bomb struck the building next door in Munich. His divorced mother found him asleep in his cradle, buried under debris and glass shards -- unscathed. Terrified, she fled with her children to Zachan, a Bavarian village so remote that Mr. Herzog claims he saw his first movie at 11 and made his first phone call at 17. 
A Freudian might use this story to explain the director's fascination with danger and escape. Although Mr. Herzog hates Freud -- "Psychoanalysis is one of the great mistakes of our civilization, as much as witch-burning," he cheerfully declared on a recent Manhattan visit -- he believes that his childhood village strongly informs his imagination. From the Transylvania of "Nosferatu" to the Brazilian rain forest of "Fitzcarraldo," the archetypal Herzogian hamlet is isolated yet vulnerable. And what village better fits the bill than a sleepy Polish shtetl before World War II?
"Invincible," which opened Friday in New York and Los Angeles, follows Zishe Breitbart, a Jewish blacksmith, as he leaves Poland to perform as a strongman in Weimar Berlin. At Hanussen's Palace of the Occult, the simple, good-natured Zishe is "Aryanized," with a name change and a Viking costume, to appeal to his National Socialist audience. But after Zishe (Jouko Ahola) reveals himself and Hanussen (Tim Roth) as Jews, he returns to Poland to warn of the dire threat coming from Germany.
Unlike many past antiheroes -- the morose vampire of "Nosferatu" or the ruthless Spanish conqueror of "Aguirre, the Wrath of God" -- Zishe is a rarity for Herzog: a deeply nice guy. But kindness won't save him. His fate may be quieter than the plague, mayhem and carnage that have formed the climax of past Herzog films, but it is equally tragic and perplexing.
While Mr. Herzog has been busy in Europe, directing documentaries and operas, "Invincible" is his first fictional feature to be released in the United States since "Scream of Stone" in 1991. A $6 million German-English coproduction, "Invincible" avoids what he calls "the usual movie melodrama about Nazis and Jews" and instead showcases his signatures: the mesmerizingly slow pace; the surreal dream sequences; and the haunting images that are -- to use a favorite word of Mr. Herzog's -- stylized.
"What I like about 'Invincible,' " Mr. Herzog said, "is that the focus of the film is more densely concentrated than any other film I've made. I can tell by audience reaction. At 'Fitzcarraldo' they munch on popcorn and hold hands, but here they just sit frozen."
Judging from some of the European press, they are frozen in dismay -- but the lukewarm reception abroad does not appear to ruffle Mr. Herzog.
"In Germany I got very, very bad reviews, but that is not unusual for me," he said. " 'Aguirre' got horrible reviews, and 10 years later, everyone thought the film was great. Germans don't like their poets; it's a tradition. You have to be dead first. Plus with me it's good sport, good hunting -- I can live with that."
Like many of Mr. Herzog's films, "Invincible" mixes fact and fiction, aiming for the kind of "mysterious and elusive" storytelling that the director has called "ecstatic truth." Zishe Breitbart is a historical figure who did indeed die, in a most unheroic way, weeks before Hitler gained power. One of Breitbart's descendants, the Los Angeles producer Gary Bart, approached Mr. Herzog with the material and presented a script. But the script, Mr. Herzog said, framed Mr. Breitbart's journey "as a success story: the strongest man in the world becomes even stronger, makes it to Broadway, end of movie."
Mr. Herzog's invention was to put the innocent Breitbart in collision with an evil, devious Hanussen. Tim Roth plays Hanussen with -- literally -- hypnotic intensity. Mr. Herzog hypnotized all of the actors for his 1976 film "Heart of Glass," and he had Mr. Roth trained in the art for "Invincible." The actor showed a talent for it, Mr. Herzog said. "I looked up in the middle of the scene and realized that the cinematographer was kind of reeling and staggering backward. I had to grab him and shake him by the hair, and then he was back."
The part of Hanussen, Mr. Roth said by phone from Los Angeles, proved "tricky because it requires a bit of overacting."
"You can't get away with conversational acting, because the dialogue isn't naturalistic in any way," he added.
While Mr. Herzog had a legendarily volatile relationship with his favorite leading man, Klaus Kinski (subject of the 1999 documentary "My Best Fiend"), Mr. Roth found the director "very gentle and workmanlike."
"We would have almost musical conversations, really," he said. "We'd talk about him wanting a scene huge or wanting it very soft."
Mr. Roth is one of the few trained actors in "Invincible" -- as many European reviewers have grumbled. They may be forgetting that Mr. Herzog has always worked with untrained actors, most famously using Bruno S., a homeless man who had spent 23 years in mental institutions, as the star of "The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser" and "Stroszek," both featuring naive, mentally unstable protagonists. The Russian pianist Anna Gourari has her first acting role in "Invincible" as Hanussen's piano-playing girlfriend. Mr. Herzog said he knew she would have "great radiation on the screen" the first time he saw her perform, in a concert that won her the Clara Schumann Award.
The Finnish bodybuilder Jouko Ahola, two-time winner of the title "Strongest Man in the World," plays Breitbart. "Invincible" is Mr. Ahola's first acting credit; he barely spoke English when he took the part. "I've been long enough in the business," Mr. Herzog said, "that I know when I am seeing something momentous in a performance -- women instantly like Ahola. Instantly. Women have a clear sense of who is a good, reliable, sweet man."
Mr. Herzog, who casts even the extras himself, found Mr. Ahola by scouring strongman contests. "Zishe had to be a credible strongman," Mr. Herzog explained. "There are so many Herculeses and Schwarzeneggers in movies. We moved a real ship over a real mountain in 'Fitzcarraldo,' not a toy ship on a set in Hollywood, and audiences know the difference. I want audiences back in a very basic position where they can trust their eyes again. When you see the strongman lift 900 pounds, he actually lifts 900 pounds."
Mr. Herzog's reputation as a mad genius who will take any risk for an authentic shot was cemented by "Burden of Dreams," Les Blank's 1983 documentary about the making of "Fizcarraldo." But Mr. Herzog claims he has always worked efficiently, economically and safely. He credits much of the false impression to one of the documentary's cuts, which lops off Mr. Herzog's remorse in a conversation about an extra who drowned after stealing a canoe. The documentary "gave the impression that I was this daredevil who would kill anyone to make a movie," he said, "but because I am very careful, I have never lost a life in relation to shooting, not once."
Given the extreme dangers involved, it's possible to miss how character-centered Mr. Herzog's films are, how tender and respectful he is toward his subjects. In "Little Dieter Needs to Fly" (1997), Mr. Herzog brings the American pilot Dieter Dengler back to Vietnam, where he had been a prisoner of war in hallucinatorily gruesome conditions. And in "Wings of Hope" (1999), the director accompanies Juliane Koepcke to the site of the plane crash in Peru where, at 17, she was the sole survivor and forced to tramp through jungle for 12 days in a torn miniskirt and with maggots swirling in a hole on her arm. Mr. Herzog is less interested in the gory details of these heroic quests than in subtler issues of memory and identity. Can someone who survives the jungle or the Viet Cong return to marry, shop for food, live a normal life?
He emphatically rejects the term documentaries for these films. "I've always been out for a good movie story," he said. "It doesn't matter whether it's true or not. They're not documentaries -- they're too scripted, too staged."
But he does concede that "what the industry would call documentaries didn't get much media attention and weren't theatrically released."
"In the understanding of a common audience, I haven't been all that visible," he said. "But I'm not returning, I've never been away."
With "at least" three projects in the works -- including "Pilgrimage," about the Dalai Lama, to be filmed in Nepal -- Mr. Herzog is often on the road. 
For a while he lived in San Francisco and found that city "too sleek, too leisurely." Los Angeles, where he moved earlier this year, "has more substance," he said.
"One simple example: my wife is a photographer, so we immediately made contact with the best lab, and a young man emerges from the back who is one of the only people in the U.S. who can master daguerreotypes. You might find someone like him in Rochester, at Eastman Kodak, but you wouldn't find him even in New York. In L.A., we run into him on the second day."
His social life there, he reports, involves "no limousines, attorneys, vitamins or pyramid energy schemes."
"The other day I invited Benicio del Toro to have a steak of monstrous size," he said. "He looked like a man who needed a big steak."
Mr. Herzog is also investigating "new horizons and different coalitions" for his filmmaking.
"I have a great advantage -- Hollywood does not need me and I don't need Hollywood. Without them, I've done close to 50 films. I've always worked for audiences, and I'm trying now to connect to wider strata of audiences."
Might films like "Invincible" -- stately in pace, maddeningly hard to pigeonhole, special-effects-free -- be too artsy for Hollywood? "I don't make art," Mr. Herzog insisted.
"I have a great problem speaking about artists. They belong to a time when men fought in pistol duels and damsels fainted on couches. I don't distinguish between art and entertainment, either. I just find it difficult to label myself that way. I'm just a good foot soldier of the cinema, and that's all I want to be."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The German director Werner Herzog in Central Park. His latest film, "Invincible," opened Friday. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 13); Tim Roth runs a seance in Werner Herzog's new film, "Invincible." (Beat Presser/Fine Line Features)(pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); FILM (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%); PROSTITUTION (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); BOMBINGS (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); RAIN FORESTS (50%) MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: HERZOG, WERNER; ZEIDNER, LISA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) POLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); EUROPE (87%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

TITLE: INVINCIBLE (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



587 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Psychotherapy at the Price of Volunteering 

BYLINE:  By DICK AHLES 

 BODY:
IN Connecticut, you can barter four hours of volunteer work in a soup kitchen for a private hour of therapy with a psychologist, courtesy of a group known as Volunteers in Psychotherapy or V.I.P.
 Not that you would be restricted to working in a soup kitchen in exchange for your therapy. You can help out in a hospital, a museum, a shelter, a library or any charity you choose so long as it is recognized as a legitimate, nonprofit organization. 
 V.I.P. was founded in 1999 by four psychologists and two nonprofit specialists to make psychotherapy truly private and available to anyone who needs it, according to Dr. Richard Shulman, one of the founders and the current director of V.I.P. The founders were motivated by the conviction that the treatment offered by their profession and the rules of health insurers are a bad mix. 
If a person isn't up to volunteering for four hours for therapy, he or she can work three hours and pay a $10 fee, or two hours and $25 or one hour and $40. The going rate for psychotherapy in the Hartford area is around $100 an hour.
Volunteers in Pyschotherapy is located in a modest, one-room office over a restaurant on South Main Street in West Hartford Center. It is on the Web at www.ctvip.org.
V.I.P. is overseen by a volunteer board of directors, composed primarily of professional psychologists. 
After a decade at a clinic operated by Hartford's Institute of Living and Hartford Hospital, Dr. Shulman had become increasingly concerned that managed care and its financial pressures were severely cutting into the private therapy the clinic was providing. "People were shifted into short-term group therapies and pills were overemphasized," said Dr. Shulman, who has a private practice but devotes more than 30 hours a week to V.I.P.
He was especially troubled by the rejection of two young women who said they had been sexually abused as children and were seeking therapy. "But managed care wouldn't pay for such 'unfocused' or 'exploratory' therapy discussions," Dr. Shulman said. 
When therapy is approved, "insurers require doctors to send detailed reports about the therapy and the private life of the client every three to six sessions," Dr. Shulman said. This doesn't happen to patients with physical ailments and Dr. Shulman said he sees it as a way for insurers to discourage therapy and therefore discourage payments for therapy. 
Laurie Ahearn, who heads the National Empowerment Center, an organization of recovered psychiatric patients, agreed there are problems. "With the advent of managed care and the rationing of psychotherapy," she said, "the ability to build a trusting and empowering relationship is elusive at best, if not impossible."
The Connecticut Association of Health Plans, a trade association of managed-care companies, has a different view. 
"It is decidedly untrue that there's a blanket effort to keep people from going into one-on-one, long-term psychotherapy," said Keith Stover, a lobbyist for the association. He added that essential information is not collected to discourage such therapy or invade the patient's privacy.
"Its purpose is to help the insurer determine if an effective treatment plan is being followed, whether for a physical or a mental illness," Mr. Stover said.
As to workers' concerns about embarrassing information reaching employers, Mr. Stover said, "Providing such information would violate both state and federal law and Connecticut's law against dissemination of such information is as stringent as you'll find anywhere."
He said a perception that employers would have access to information about an employee's mental health care dates back to a time when large companies were self insurers and there "wasn't a large enough fire wall between the people paying the bills and the people running the company."
He added that most Connecticut employers "recognize the real need to provide good mental health coverage because it makes for happier, more productive employees."
But that may not always be the case. Dr. George Allen, a professor of psychology at the University of Connecticut who also has a private practice, has found that even high-ranking employees of supposedly enlightened managed-care providers had reason to worry about their privacy.
"Over the past decade," he said, "I've seen six individuals who worked in rather high-level administrative positions within the insurance industry. Without exception, all declined using their own insurance benefits to pay for services." 
In a letter he wrote to Dr. Shulman, Dr. Allen said one of the insurance executives told him that if an executive's therapy was reported to his own insurance company, he would according to Dr. Allen "most certainly" lose his job. 
"Ironically," said Dr. Allen, who is a contributor to V.I.P., "these individuals all had the financial resources to ensure their own privacy yet they held positions in an industry that denied the same basic rights to those who were less economically advantaged."
Had Dr. Allen's insurance executives sought the services of V.I.P., they wouldn't have had to worry about their privacy but they couldn't have paid cash for their therapy even though they could afford it. V.I.P. insists that clients exchange at least the minimum one hour of charitable work and $40 in cash for an hour of therapy because, said Dr. Shulman, "giving something as a volunteer is a form of therapy in itself."
"We've had people who were physically abused as kids who worked with hospitalized children, people with physical problems of their own who have worked with handicapped folks," he added.
Those for whom volunteering is therapy come to "appreciate being valued by the volunteer agency," he said.
In 2001, V.I.P. clients received 250 hours of therapy. This year, they have already surpassed 250 hours and are on their way to more than 500 hours. Support for the nonprofit group comes from individual donors, foundations and recently, the federal Department of Health and Human Services.
The psychologists see people with various forms of depression, anxieties, difficulties in coping with everyday life, marital and parenting problems, substance abuse and other disorders. Some clients need many hours of therapy while others require only two or three sessions, which is the number usually sanctioned by insurers before the therapist is, according to Dr. Shulman, "pressed to provide pills and not therapy."
He doesn't entirely blame the insurers for this problem. 
"We shrinks are ultimately responsible for this," he said. "Years ago, we fought for health insurance coverage to include the problems for which people sought psychotherapy. Many therapists and clients were happy at the prospect of a free lunch, of therapy sessions paid for by someone else. But these third-party payees -- employers, governments and insurance companies -- eventually realized he who pays the piper calls the tune." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Richard Shulman is one of the founders and the current director of Volunteers in Psychotherapy, which barters volunteer work for therapy. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (92%); VOLUNTEERS (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (69%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); APPROVALS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (56%) MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; VOLUNTEERS 

ORGANIZATION: VOLUNTEERS IN PSYCHOTHERAPY (ORGN) 

PERSON: AHLES, DICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



588 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island; 
1 Subdivision, 36 Architects With a Modernist Flair

BYLINE:  By CAROLE PAQUETTE

 BODY:
ON land surrounded by dense trees and low-bush blueberries in the area of Bridgehampton and Sagaponack that is just north of the South Fork's main road, 36 internationally known architects are designing 36 houses that are being built on speculation.
 The project, an 80-acre subdivision called the Houses at Sagaponac, is being developed by Harry J. Brown Jr., a Southampton resident for 30 years and the president of the Brown Companies in Manhattan, an international real estate investment company. 
 The plan is to have widely known architects design homes that are relatively modest and economical by the standards of this very prosperous part of the world. It was conceived after Mr. Brown purchased 150 acres that were in foreclosure for $1.6 million in 1994. Another developer had subdivided the original parcel into 45 lots and built some houses before going bankrupt. 
Mr. Brown set out to construct houses on the property that would be "fun-oriented and blend with the outdoors" and that would revive the spirit of small summer houses typical of the 1960's. And, he said, they would provide "an antidote to the trend" of so-called McMansions that have proliferated on the East End.
The first 10 houses, most of which are in the final permit stages, are expected to be completed by next summer. Six were designed by prominent New York City architects: Henry N. Cobb, Richard Gluckman, Stan Allen, Gisue and Mojgan Hariri, Lindy Roy and Annabelle Selldorf. The other four are by Marwan Al-Sayed of Phoenix, Shigeru Ban and Dean Maltz of Tokyo and New York City, Stephen Kanner of Los Angeles and the late Samuel Mockbee of Canton, Miss.
To advise him on the project, Mr. Brown turned to a friend, the New York City architect Richard Meier, designer of the Getty Center in Los Angeles. Mr. Meier designated the sites and chose the architects -- who range in age from Ms. Roy, 38, to Philip Johnson, who is 96. "Basically, I wanted younger architects so they could show what they could do in residential design," Mr. Meier said. "But I also chose some older, more established ones to create a good mix."
The architects chosen were all modernists, because "that is what I believe in," he said. "Choosing who got what site was arbitrary," he added. "I put people who I thought would get along with one another next to each other so they could talk."
The sites range from 1 to 2.7 acres. The houses, which range from 2,100 square feet to 4,800, will sell from $1 million to $3 million.
Each architect's fee will amount to 11 percent of the construction budget of his or her house. The overall project is expected to cost $70 million and has until now been financed personally by Mr. Brown. The company is currently meeting with banks to arrange construction financing, according to Sunitha Ramachandran, the project manager. 
The sites are relatively indistinctive for the area. Sagaponack, north of Montauk Highway, primarily includes vineyards and pondfront property with homes ranging from "cottages to castles, that sell from just under a million dollars to multimillions," said Judi Desiderio, vice president of Cook Pony Farm Real Estate, which has seven offices on the South Fork. 
"It is an interesting idea to take what otherwise would be just a subdivision of spec houses," said Mr. Cobb, who is designing the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia. 
"It's unusual for a group of architects like this to be invited to shape a subdivision. What its significance will be in the end is hard to say; it will be in the quality of the house," he said. "It will be interesting, a great many different architect's voices in one place operating within the constraints of zoning."
ACCORDING to Southampton's zoning code, 30 percent of each parcel may be cleared, and the rest must be left in its natural state. The maximum lot coverage of a roofed structure is limited to 15 percent of the cleared area. Working within these constraints, the architects received additional guidelines from Mr. Brown, including that the houses be less than 5,000 square feet and that they could be priced for about $250 per square foot.
The Sunshine Group, a Manhattan marketing and brokerage firm, will be involved in marketing the houses, and they will also be made available to local Hampton brokers, according to Mr. Brown.
The architects participating include 10 women. The sisters Gisue and Mojgan Hariri, winners of the Young Architects Forum in 1990, applauded the fact that women were invited to participate. "The 21st century, finally!" Gisue Hariri said. 
Their 4,600-square-foot, four-bedroom L-shaped house, which is the first under construction and is on the largest site, is expected to sell for $2.6 million. The property is adjacent to a site assigned to Zaha Hadid of London and across the road from the Selldorf and Roy sites.
Mr. Cobb's house is on 1.3 acres adjacent to the site of his partner, James Ingo Freed. Including a courtyard, the building covers a total of 12,000 square feet, although the house itself is 3,600 square feet.
It will be the first house ever designed by Mr. Cobb, 76, whose credits include the John Hancock Tower in Boston. "I think after more than 50 years of practice, I'm ready to build a house," said Mr. Cobb, a former chairman of the Harvard Design School. 
His house, which is estimated to sell for $2 million, incorporates "a need for infinite space," he said. Because his lot is relatively small and heavily wooded, he designed the two-bedroom house around an interior courtyard, which includes a circular planting of 13 white fringe trees, which meet at a north-facing 26-square-foot towerlike studio with a 13-foot-high ceiling and high windows, he said. 
A porch runs along the interior of the house, facing the courtyard, with its "idealized landscape that removes the owner from the world of a subdivision," he said. 
Ms. Roy said she liked "the idea of providing an alternative to the overblown McMansions." Known for her designs for "extreme sites, such as a health spa in Botswana" she said she "was taken by the idea of what is a weekend house."
A blue mosaic-tiled swimming pool penetrates the interior of the first floor of the three-bedroom house. A sheet of water cascades from the second level into the pool.
The 3,300-square-foot house will sell for $1.9 million and has been reserved for a "well-known person in the arts field," Mr. Brown said. 
There is also a potential buyer for the 3,600-square-foot house designed by Mr. Gluckman, who is designing the Musee Picasso in Malaga, Spain. 
The three-bedroom simple box-style house, which will sell for $1.95 million, reflects Mr. Gluckman's minimalist approach and is similar to his own house on the East End. It will have a large balcony and features wooden slat-screen panels configured to modulate the sun and shade. 
Mr. Gluckman said that the project was challenging but that he would have favored more restrictions, such as using similar building materials and uniform sizes to "create some homogeneity among the buildings, but with no design restrictions."
Because the sites do not have significant features or views, Ms. Selldorf, who designed the Neue Galerie museum in Manhattan, said the project gave her "the opportunity to create an environment of its own."
Her 3,400-square-foot, four-bedroom house on 1.5 acres, which will sell for $1.85 million, incorporates views of a sunken flower garden, an apple orchard and a courtyard.
The master plan for the Houses at Sagaponac, which includes walking trails throughout the development that lead to a public park, was designed by Stephen Stimson Associates of Falmouth, Mass.
The company is also creating the plan for the park, which is to be on a 13-acre preserved parcel leased from Suffolk County at the northern end of the property. It will include gardens, a pond and tree nursery, according to Anne Bohlen, the landscape project manager.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Model of four-bedroom house designed by Annabelle Selldorf. (Selldorf Architects); The home at Houses at Sagaponac designed by Stan Allen. (Matt Schnepf); The design by Steven Kanner of Los Angeles, in a night view. (David Ellien); House designed by the late Samuel Mockbee of Canton, Miss. (David Ford); Design by Lindy Roy, as an alternative to the McMansions. (ROY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); FORECLOSURE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); BUDGETS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



589 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester; 
Rentals for Seniors Seeking to Live Independently

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: RYE BROOK 

 BODY:
HOPING to be in the forefront of a shift in the housing market for those 62 and over, Sterling Glen Communities of Manhattan has begun construction of 166 luxury rental apartments here for active adults -- a growing group of seniors who are still independent and do not require assisted living.
 Called Stone Gate at BelleFair, the resort-style complex constitutes the final phase of BelleFair, a 140-acre, 250-home project whose other sections were completed last year by Spectrum Skanska. A "new urbanism" development, BelleFair was designed to emulate some aspects of life in a small town and encourage interaction among neighbors of various ages. 
 The concept of active-adult housing is already a familiar option in places like Florida, Arizona and California. But active-adult housing that is also part of a larger multigenerational community has not been tried elsewhere, said Barbara Kleger, president of Senior Living Consultants, a Philadelphia-based consulting and development firm specializing in retirement housing. 
David Schless, president of the American Seniors Housing Association, a trade group representing senior housing developers, managers and financiers, described Stone Gate as a unique project. 
Stone Gate, which is offering one- and two-bedroom apartments in a four-story building, is being built for people like Rita Aborn, a widow who is in her 80's and still plays golf and bridge and drives a car. "I know I'm old, but I feel young, and I enjoy being with young people," said Mrs. Aborn, who is living in a condominium in Brookline, Mass., and wants to move closer to her daughter, Jane deSeife, a resident of Rye.
So far, about 70 people in addition to Mrs. Aborn have placed deposits on units at Stone Gate, which is expected to be completed at the end of 2003. Some of those who will be moving to Stone Gate have children and grandchildren living in BelleFair, which is operated separately.
Rents will start at $3,600 a month and go up to about $7,000, said Michael Daly, president and chief executive of Sterling Glen, which is a subsidiary of Forest City Enterprises. He said the apartments at Stone Gate, which will range in size from 650 square feet to 1,200 square feet, will all include full kitchens, washers and dryers and wall-to-wall carpeting. Services will include weekly housekeeping and laundry service for towels and sheets, transportation to local shopping and medical appointments and recreational activities. 
Sterling Glen is building a stand-alone active-adult community in Rosyln on Long Island; it is called Bryant Landing and is scheduled to open in 2004. Currently, Sterling Glen has eight operating senior residences and three in development. Its parent company, Forest City Enterprises, is a publicly traded real estate company based in Cleveland that owns and manages commercial and residential real estate properties in 20 states and the District of Columbia.
STERLING GLEN acquired the property here, along with two other existing communities in Connecticut -- Westfield Court in Stamford and Stony Brook Court in Darien -- from CareMatrix, which had planned to build a retirement home next door to BelleFair but then filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection about a year and a half ago. Mr. Daly would not say how much his company paid for the five-acre site here or the other properties.
Hoping to move to Stone Gate when it opens, Mrs. Aborn said she preferred a rental -- even a high-end one -- to tying up equity in a deposit on an ownership unit. "Stone Gate isn't inexpensive," she said, "but there are more expensive communities, and most of them you have to buy into. Personally, I'd rather rent."
In keeping with the goal of integrating Stone Gate with BelleFair, the active adult residents are to have access to the gym, health club, library, computer center and indoor and outdoor pools at BelleFair's 18,000-square-foot meeting house, which is next door to the senior residences. BelleFair also has a specialty food market and small cafe, where many residents congregate for lunch. 
In addition to the amenities at BelleFair, Stone Gate residents will have access within their apartment building to two restaurants, a cocktail lounge, hair salon, fitness room, spa and small private movie theater. 
Mr. Schless of the American Seniors Housing Association observed that as the population of those 65 and over grows and as its members stay healthy longer, the housing market for seniors has been shifting away from assisted living, which was popular in the 1990's and overbuilt in some areas. Statistics from the trade group show that while those 65 and over constituted only 12.7 percent of the population in 1995, they are expected to represent 20 percent of the total by 2030.
Also, Mr. Daly noted, the assumption used to be that as people aged, they would surely need long-term nursing care. "Now statistics are showing us something totally different," he said. "They indicate that 95 percent of the older population will in fact not need that kind of care."
Ms. Kleger, the consultant, described the population considering active adult communities as "people coming from homes they've lived in for 30 to 40 years and planning what they want for the next 20 or more years."
Typically, nursing homes offer round-the-clock care to the very sick. Assisted living is designed for frail elderly residents who need meals and some assistance with daily tasks. Independent living facilities generally offer physically stronger residents two meals a days and the option of cooking in small kitchens in their quarters.
By comparison, Mr. Daly said, Stone Gate will be "like an upscale bed and breakfast with health care available." He said people from 62 to 96 years old have expressed interest in moving to Stone Gate, which will be affiliated with the nearby Greenwich Hospital, which offers geriatic wellness programs. Under this arrangement, there will be a medical suite at Stone Gate, and Greenwich Hospital doctors have agreed to take residents as patients and to make house calls if needed.
Because Stone Gate is being marketed to residents who already live in the area, specifically those who do not wish to relinquish long-established affiliations in the community by moving to distant retirement locations, it is also developing agreements under which tickets would be made available for residents to make use of the Neuberger Museum of Art and the performing arts theater at the State University of New York at Purchase and a golf course at the Doral Arrowwood conference center. 
Stone Gate was designed by Culpepper, McAuliffe & Meaders, architects and interior designers in Atlanta, who specialize in senior living residences, including Hyatt's Classic Residences and buildings for HealthTrust America, a developer of senior housing.
Jim Culpepper, the lead architect on the project, said the main goal with high-end senior housing is to make it "look and feel familiar."
W HAT we're trying to achieve is a country club feel and a country club environment, but with an eye to the special needs of the population using the space," Mr. Culpepper said. "At this high end of the market, what we avoid at all costs is a sterile look."
There will be handrails in hallways to assist residents, he said, but they are designed to look like a chair rail and blend in with the decor. And because seniors often have vision problems, lighting is a paramount concern. "With lighting," Mr. Culpepper said, "the trick is to provide lots of it but without creating an institutional glare."
As Ms. Kleger, who ran focus groups for Sterling Glen before construction started, explained it, "This kind of high-end senior living can't be run-of-the-mill.
"It's not a case of, 'Here's what we offer, take it or leave it,' but rather, 'How would you like us to customize your new home?' " she said. "Similarly, when a place like Sterling Glen offers valet services, it's not just a matter of bringing the car to the door, but also taking the snow off of it and warming it up first. It's all very client-driven."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of Stone Gate at BelleFair, in Rye Brook. Community is to have 166 high-end rental apartments. (Martin Architectural Group) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (77%); LINEN SUPPLY (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); GOLF (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (61%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (52%)

TICKER: FCEB (NYSE) (52%); FCEA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (52%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (52%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



590 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2487 words

HEADLINE: At House Museums, Instructive Vignettes From the Past 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA DELATINER 

 BODY:
PICTURE this, if you will: A pair of blue satin men's slippers, complete with silver buckles and Cuban heels, on the floor beside a plush canopied bed. Then consider a homespun shirt made of flax that was grown, cured, dyed, woven and sewn on a subsistence farm.
 Or contrast a cluttered early Victorian drawing room prominently displaying a large, ornate music box with a bare-bones sitting room whose main source of entertainment is a novel by Sir Walter Scott lying open on a table. Or how about a lavish bathroom commode fashioned out of mahogany to replicate a throne juxtaposed with a five-hole outhouse, with the holes ranging from very small to very large. 
 Visiting Long Island's historic homes suggests that the more things change, the more they stay the same, for the haves, the have-lesses and the have-nots. Here are snapshots from a recent tour that included 6 of the 50 or so historic homes open to the public, homes both modest and prosperous from Colonial times, the mid-19th century and the turn of the 20th century.

Rock Hall in Lawrence
There are older houses on the Island, but few as grand -- and as pure architecturally and in terms of furnishings -- as this eight-room Georgian mansion built in 1768 by Josiah Martin on 600 waterfront acres in Lawrence. Mr. Martin, a wealthy sugar planter from Antigua, moved to New York to oversee his business affairs. Rock Hall is a simple yet elegant two-and-a-half-story wooden house built on a high site to catch the breezes from the ocean to the south, yet accessible on the north to the road, now Broadway. 
While later Martins added Federal-style touches, much of today's museum is original since only one other family, the Hewletts, owned the mansion before the Town of Hempstead acquired the house and its remaining three acres in 1948. The Hewletts preserved the oldest rooms unaltered, but they added an east wing and a west porch after buying the property in 1824. 
With the help of an inventory of Rock Hall's contents that Dr. Samuel Martin, the last of his family, included in his 1806 will, the town has been able to recreate the museum rooms authentically.
Delft tiles outline the fireplaces; a "crumb cloth" under the dining room table can be picked up and shaken out after each meal; sea grass carpets were put down in the hallway during the summer; fancy chairs adorned with carved pineapples, symbols of welcome, spruce up the best parlor; in the bedrooms nightshirts for men and women are laid out under brocade canopies, and in truly innovative touch, the front windows have two layers of shutters recessed in the wall and raised by ropes.
Today, a school and subdivisions surround the house, cutting off the water view, and the outbuildings -- the kitchen, slave quarters, icehouse, dairy, smokehouse, carriage house and barns -- are gone. Still it's easy to picture the kind of lives the Martins lived in what was essentially their own kingdom.
They were waited on by the estate's 17 slaves (the most in any household in what was then Queens County, according to the 1790 census). They gave parties that the whole countryside attended, sometimes staying for days, dancing in the spacious hall, playing cards at a tilt-top table, lighted by the silver candlesticks in the best parlor. Palm Beach or the Hamptons, anyone?

Conklin Farmhouse In Huntington
There are no silver candlesticks in the David Conklin Farm House Museum, a modest house in Huntington, and no best parlor, either. The original homestead, built around 1750 by the fifth generation of Conklins to live in Huntington, is a one-and-a-half story simple shingled building. Essentially a one-room house, it had a second-floor loft with "belly windows," so named because you had to lie on your belly to see out of them, and a lean-to where messy work like candle making, butchering and butter churning was done. Four subsequent generations of Conklins added Federal and Victorian sections, now part of the museum. 
David Conklin and his wife, Sybil, raised nine children in the 20-by-20-foot main room with an alcove large enough to accommodate a cradle, a cupboard and an rope bed for the couple with cornhusk and feather mattresses. The older children slept on mats in the loft. 
Life centered around the hearth and the fireplace, which provided heat, light and fire for cooking, clothes washing and bathing. Here, Mrs. Conklin prepared the meals, combed and cleaned the wool from the farm's sheep, soaked the flax cut from its fields and wove both into cloth, which she dyed, using native plants. Indigo was a special favorite because, when set with urine, the blue got deeper with time. 
Though the farm covered 105 acres and provided a self-sufficient life, the Conklins were not prosperous. During the Revolution, Mr. Conklin, a patriot, had to seek refuge in Connecticut and was imprisoned by the British when he returned and then made to work on their fortifications. 
The Conklins and their descendants left no possessions behind, save for the rope bed, which was found in pieces in the basement. There certainly was no inventory, so the Huntington Historical Society, which has owned the property since 1917, furnished the house with appropriate items from the last part of the 18th century. These include a table, chair and foot warmer used by George Washington; a tilt-top table with a family Bible and a "gossip wheel" that was used by two women at a time to spin flax.
Mrs. Conklin would have used samplers like the ones now on the walls to teach her children to read and write, and from them her daughters would learn their stitches. Resourcefulness and aesthetics all rolled into one.

Village House in Orient
Profits made during the Civil War increased the size of the middle class and created something new called the vacation. By the 1870's, Village Lane in Orient had a charming boarding house that allowed city dwellers, mostly from Brooklyn, to escape to the sea and sun. The cost was $7 to $10 for a room for a week, with three meals a day and laundry service, too. 
In its early days, Orient, which traces its origins to 1662, was mostly known as a way station for travelers going to or coming back from New England via stagecoach or boat. To earn extra money, Augustus Griffin, the local schoolmaster, turned his one-story 1798 cottage into a small inn, enlarging it in 1807 and 1832. Samuel Vail, a fisherman, bought the inn in about 1856 and renovated it, adding some Italianate features like a veranda with arched openings.
But it wasn't until the 1870's, when his daughter-in-law Nancy -- Mrs. Jeremiah Vail -- took over, that the summer operation really blossomed. She advertised in the New York papers to attract guests and furnished the inn in impeccable taste. The two front drawing rooms contain upholstered sofas and easy chairs, including platform rockers that rocked but didn't wear out the carpeting, and for diversion, a parlor organ, music boxes, books and checkers. Straw matting covered the floors in summer, and gilded mirrors and oil paintings hung on the wall-papered walls.
A dining room ran the full width of the house, seating 20 guests who ate from pottery produced in Hempstead and Greenport. The upstairs hall, surrounded by bedrooms, became a kind of children's sitting room, complete with small table and chairs for checkers. Although outhouses were still in, a pump brought water into the building.
With the help of her two unmarried daughters and an occasional hired helper, Mrs. Vail ran the inn until her death in 1898. The daughters took over after that; they died in the 1930's. In 1944, George R. Latham, a local boy who made good as a lumber baron, bought the property for about $4,000, supplemented the original furnishings by calling on local residents to empty their attics, and gave everything to the Oysterponds Historical Society, which he founded. Village House is testament to small-town initiative and get-up-and-go. The Vails made their money the hard way: by working for it. 

Conklin House in Old Bethpage
 No matter how hard Joseph Hull Conklin worked, he never really made it. From 1835 to 1842, he started out as a stagecoach driver on the run from Greenpoint in Brooklyn to Greenport, a two-day journey with an overnight stop in the Village of the Branch. There at Thomas Hallock's Inn, Hull Conklin, who was descended from a branch of the numerous Conklin clan, met the innkeeper's niece, Thankful Udall, whom he married in 1842.
The couple moved to Greenport, and since the Long Island Rail Road was putting the stagecoaches out of business, he became a bayman, catching fish, eels, crabs and shellfish and hunting waterfowl. In 1853, the young couple -- now three with their baby, Sarah -- returned to Smithtown and bought a house and two acres of land from Mr. Hallock for $600. They lived in that house until the 1880's, when they returned to the East End. 
Their house, built in 1830, was donated by later owners and moved to Old Bethpage in 1965. It was restored as a typical workingman's cottage, circa 1853. It is a small two-story saltbox with Greek Revival appointments inside. The first floor has a combination parlor and dining room and a kitchen with pantry-workroom off the back. The second floor has two tiny bedrooms and a "lumber room," an old term for storage room.
The furnishings are sparse: a table and chairs and a highboy in the parlor-dining room. A 12-gauge shotgun and powder flask, duck decoys and a threadbare rug can also be seen. There is a baby tender in the kitchen, its legs spread wide to prevent tipping. The workroom holds jars of spices and tools of the bayman like an eel spear and eel raps.
In the absence of family records and heirlooms, the Old Bethpage curators furnished the house using items they considered accurate to the time and the Conklins' economic and social status. The total picture is pretty bleak, indicating just how little the have-nots had.

Westbury House In Old Westbury
The John J. Phipps family did not want for anything. They didn't have to, since Mr. Phipps was the son of Henry Phipps, a partner in the Carnegie Steel Company, and his bride, the English-born Margarita Grace, was a member of the Grace shipping family. So at the turn of the 20th century when the Phippses decided to build a country home on 175 acres in Old Westbury, they were destined to give the palaces of the Old World a run for their opulence.
Planned by George A. Crawley, a London designer, with on-site help from Grosvenor Atterbury, the American architect, Westbury House is a stately three-story Charles II manor, completed in 1906 and surrounded by 88 acres of landscaped grounds, including 25 acres of gardens. 
Walking through the brick and limestone house with 20 rooms on the first two floors -- the servants and children lived on the third -- is like touring an English palace like, say, Hampton Court.
Westbury House is packed with museum-quality art and objects: priceless antique English furniture; crystal and gilt chandeliers; handmade carpets, some of dating to the early 1700's; and paintings by Gainsborough, Reynolds and Sargent. Stradivarius and Guarnerius violins were once stored in a closet behind a panel of fake books in Mrs. Phipps's study.
The estate was a self-sufficient farm, with vegetable gardens, orchards, a dairy, barns, stables, a laundry and for fun and games, two kettle-hole lakes, a swimming pool, polo fields, tennis courts and even a golf course. Fourteen house servants, plus grooms, gardeners and chauffeurs, saw to the family's needs.
It was an idyllic existence until 1959, when Westbury House went the way of many of the millionaires' estates on the Island: out of private hands. The estate, which is on the National Register of Historic Places, became the nonprofit Old Westbury Gardens, owned by a board of trustees and operated as a tourist attraction, with some financial support from a Phipps foundation.

Hallock Farm in Riverhead
Of all these historic homes, the David Halsey Hallock Farm, part of the Hallockville Museum Farm and Folk Arts Center in the Northville section of Riverhead, seems to be most contemporary. Not architecturally or in terms of contents. There is nothing extraordinary or modern about the musty farmhouse and the knickknacks that cover almost every surface. 
It's just that in the late 19th century, the Hallocks, who were descended from the original settlers of Southold in 1640, found an acceptable way to work themselves into the middle class and seem to have enjoyed every moment of acquiring what their newfound money could buy, within reason, of course. As typical hardscrabble, subsistence farmers, this branch of the plentiful Hallock family lived in a house that started out as a simple one-a-half story cottage, probably built in 1765. Succeeding generations, including David Halsey Hallock, who inherited the property in about 1845, added to the basic building, creating a two-story hodgepodge of architectural styles and rooms.
Then during the last decades of the 19th century, the North Fork farmers planted potatoes that could be shipped easily and cheaply. Like their neighbors, the Hallocks were off and running. Soon they would join the middle class.
The farmhouse shows what happens when nouveau riche meets farmers' thrift. For example, a front porch was added in 1907, but the doors and windows for a kitchen addition came from the original 18th-century house. A water pump was put into the kitchen, but indoor plumbing was not added until well into the 20th century. A phone appeared in 1903, but electricity not arrive until the 1920's.
Eventually, the family added the true sign of having arrived: a lawn was planted and the more noxious outbuildings like the chicken coops were moved back away from the house.
The house is preserved as it would have appeared from 1880 to 1910. It is cluttered with doodads, most of them original, acquired from traveling salesmen and mail-order companies, showing that the Hallocks had spare money to spend.
There are all sorts of "modern" laundry devices designed to make washing by hand easier; trinkets like wall hangings made from human hair; an Edison Victrola, a piano, an organ and a Morris chair; Currier & Ives prints; and perhaps the most innovative period piece, a slow cooker, a wooden cabinet that held gallon pails set on ceramic discs that had been heated overnight in the wood stove. When put under the pails, the discs would cook the family's dinner, but they took all day to do it.
Ella Hallock was the last member of the family to live in the house, until 1979. The family had sold the property to the Long Island Lighting Company, which donated some of it -- house, barns, outbuildings and some fields -- and a nonprofit museum farm was set up.
Its mission is to tell the story of rural Long Island, where the potatoes that propelled the Hallocks into middle-class comfort have now given way to wine grapes, the nectar of today's upwardly mobile.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The best parlor at Rock Hall. A bedroom at Rock Hall. Men's blue satin slippers are laid out beside the canopied bed. The rear of the Hallock farmhouse. A Victrola was one of the Hallocks' middle-class conveniences. Guests could play the music box in a downstairs parlor at the Village House inn. Westbury House, John J. Phipps's mansion completed in 1906. The Chinese Chippendale bedroom at Westbury House. (Doug Kuntz for The New York Times); (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 18); The Hallocks' dining room, used for special occasions. A corner in the Joseph Hull Conklin House in Old Bethpage. The rope bed at the David Conklin farmhouse. David Conklin exterior. (Doug Kuntz for The New York Times); (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%) SPECIAL SECTIONS; ROCK HALL (LAWRENCE, NY); CONKLIN FARMHOUSE (HUNTINGTON, NY); VILLAGE HOUSE (ORIENT, NY); CONKLIN HOUSE (BETHPAGE, NY); WESTBURY HOUSE (OLD WESTBURY, NY); HALLOCK FARM (RIVERHEAD, NY); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



591 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME; 
Ins and Outs Of Sales Contracts

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
THE purpose of a real estate contract is to provide written documentation of the terms and conditions on which a buyer and a seller agree for the sale of a piece of property. Most people are aware that the failure of either party to live up to those terms and conditions can result in a lawsuit for breach of contract. 
 In most contracts, however, certain provisions, known as contingencies, allow either party, or both, to cancel the contract under certain circumstances. While some contingencies involve inspections to find defects in the property, others, including the mortgage-commitment and home-sale contingencies, go to the heart of the buyer's ability to go through with the purchase. 
 The mortgage contingency is included in a contract when the buyer has to get financing to purchase the property. 
And while it may appear to be relatively simple, the mortgage contingency "can be one of the trickiest clauses in the contract," said John G. Hall, a Staten Island real estate lawyer and former chairman of the New York State Bar Association's Real Property Section.
When drafting a real estate contract, he said, lawyers must carefully define the terms of the mortgage contingency, specifying the amount of the mortgage needed, the maximum interest rate the buyer is willing to pay, and the term of the mortgage.
Just as important as the terms is the language used. Some mortgage contingency clauses, for example, say that the contract is subject to the buyer obtaining a mortgage; others say that the buyer must obtain a mortgage commitment. 
What is the difference?
"If the clause says the contract is subject to the buyer obtaining a mortgage, the buyer is much better off because he actually has to get the mortgage to be bound by the contract," Mr. Hall said, adding that the obvious advantage of such a clause to the buyer typically makes it unlikely that an alert lawyer for the seller will agree to it.
As a result, he said, most mortgage contingency clauses provide that the borrower must obtain a mortgage commitment -- that is, a promise by a lender to make the loan -- within a specific period. Once the commitment is issued the buyer is basically locked into the contract. (That can pose a risk for the buyer, Mr. Hall said, if the commitment expires before the purchaser is ready to close -- most commitments are good for only a certain period, usually between 45 and 90 days -- and the lender declines to renew it because rates have risen so high that the borrower no longer qualifies for the loan. In such cases, buyers can their loose their deposits.)
Accordingly, Mr. Hall said, while a mortgage contingency clause must give the buyer enough time to obtain the commitment -- between 30 and 60 days -- the closing date agreed to by the parties should not be so far into the future as to risk expiration of the commitment.
Another issue that must be addressed when drafting a mortgage contingency clause is what action, if any, the parties must take if the contingency has not been met.
One possibility, he said, is to include language that permits either party to cancel the contract if the buyer does not satisfy the mortgage contingency clause by a specific date. "The problem with that is that the seller's lawyer sometimes falls asleep at the switch," Mr. Hall said, explaining that in such a case, and with such a clause, the contract will remain in force until one of the parties actually cancels it. A better solution -- for the seller, at least -- is for the seller's lawyer to include language in the contract that requires the buyer to notify the seller, within a certain period, if the buyer has not been able to obtain a commitment. "If the buyer doesn't notify the seller that he didn't satisfy the contingency, the contingency clause is of no further force and effect and the contract becomes binding," Mr. Hall said. "And if the buyer can't make the deal, he could end up losing the down payment."
One of the most difficult contract contingencies to negotiate, real estate lawyers say, is the home-sale contingency, in which the entire deal depends on the buyer successfully selling his or her home.
"The problem with a home-sale contingency clause is that there are a number of factors that are totally beyond the control of the seller," said William Selsberg, a Stamford, Conn., real estate lawyer. For example, he said, the seller in such a deal typically has neither knowledge nor control over the sale price, condition or marketability of the buyer's property. Even if the buyer enters into a contract to sell his current home, that is no guarantee to the seller that the deal will ultimately go through.
"It's true that a majority of buyers have to sell their existing home to buy a new one," Mr. Selsberg said. "But if you're depending on your buyer being able to sell his house before he can buy yours, you have to ask yourself, do you really have a buyer?"
There is a way, though, to draw up a home-sale contingency clause that will be acceptable to both the buyer and seller.
Christopher J. LaMonica, a real estate lawyer in Brick Township, N.J., said that some lawyers use what is known as a "72-hour kickout clause" when a prospective buyer must sell a current home to purchase a new one.
With such a clause, Mr. LaMonica said, additional provisions are included that allow the seller to continue to market the home and entertain offers from other buyers. 
The contract also provides that if the seller finds a new buyer willing to purchase the home without a home-sale contingency, the seller can then give the first buyer 72-hour notice to waive the home-sale contingency and set a closing date, or cancel the deal. If the first buyer does not provide the seller with a written waiver of the contingency within 72 hours, Mr. LaMonica said, the seller is then permitted to cancel the first contract, return the first buyer's deposit and enter into a new contract with the second buyer.
"The important thing to remember with a kickout clause is that all of the notice provisions should be very clear," he said, explaining that since timing is critical, the contract must spell out in detail what constitutes effective notice and upon whom such notice must be served. "You don't want your client signing multiple contracts and then ending up being bound to two buyers," he said.
One potential problem with the 72-hour kickout clause, Mr. LaMonica said, is that the first buyer, when faced with choosing between either waiving the contingency or losing the deal, might decide to gamble and waive the contingency.
Dale Orlovsky, a real estate lawyer in Toms River, N.J., said that to protect sellers in that situation, he typically includes a clause in the contract that requires the buyer to come up with an additional deposit -- typically 10 percent of the purchase price -- when signing the waiver.
"A lot of times, a buyer who is waiving a home-sale contingency is putting up a smoke screen," Mr. Orlovsky said. "So you have to make the buyer put up some real money and prove he has the wherewithal to go through with the deal."
While the 72-hour kickout clause is used in parts of New Jersey and Connecticut, it is rarely seen in the New York City area and in places where there is a strong seller's market.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%); LAWYERS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



592 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property; 
Expanding Law Firms Soaking Up Office Space

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
AT a time when financial services companies, traditionally the mainspring of New York's economy, are laying off workers and putting unneeded space on the sublet market, another sector is showing surprising strength.
 Real estate executives say that locally based law firms are growing internally and merging and that the New York offices of firms based elsewhere in the country are expanding as well. They say the growth in bankruptcy and corporate litigation practices appears to have more than made up for the decline in legal work connected with merger and acquisition activity that was so prominent until recently but has fallen off. 
 As a result, law firms have become the largest leasers of office space so far this year. According to figures compiled by Julien J. Studley, a brokerage that usually represents tenants, law firms leased 919,389 square feet of space in January through August of this year. Financial companies were second at 705,613 square feet. 
This is quite a contrast to the same period in 2001, when financial companies were clearly in the lead, leasing 2,596,015 square feet. Law firms were in fifth place with 447,330 square feet.
"Law is the fastest growing industry in New York," said Bruce Mosler, the president of United States operations at Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company. He said much of the leasing activity was the result of mergers among law firms that want to have their entire staffs under one roof once the merger is completed. 
Mr. Mosler said a deal he helped shape is typical of the trend. The firm of Bingham Dana, which originated in Boston, merged with the San Francisco-based firm of McCutchen, Doyle, Brown & Enersen to form Bingham McCutchen.
Subsequently Bingham McCutchen leased 142,000 square feet on the 19th, 23rd, 24th and 26th floors of the building at 399 Park Avenue, at 53rd Street. This is in addition to space the firm already has on the 19th, 20th and 21st floors and allows it to consolidate its operations from 885 Third Avenue, at 53rd Street.
Increases in the size of the New York offices of law firms based elsewhere in the country are adding significantly to the demand for space here, said Peter L. Malkin, a lawyer who is general partner of the group that controls the lawyer-friendly Lincoln Building at 60 East 42nd Street.
"The New York branches of some of these firms are bigger than the home offices," he said. "A lot of it has to do with international finance and trade because New York is the center of international activity."
No less than 153 law firms have their home in the 1.15-million-square- foot Lincoln Building, which has a law library with 15,000 books that is available to tenants. Although a lot of legal research is done electronically today, "sometimes it is useful to have the books," said Nancy Connery, a partner in the firm of Schoeman Updike & Kaufman.
She said her firm is negotiating to lease another floor in the building's tower in addition to the floor it now occupies, to accommodate growth.
The space became available, she said, when the firm occupying it merged and consolidated in another location.
Because law firms are partnerships, the costs of leasing and equipping offices come directly out of the partners' pockets, rather than from faceless shareholders, a situation that can lead to difficult choices. "Law firms have to strike a balance between image and overhead," said Michael T. Cohen, president of GVA Williams, a brokerage and services company.
"There are some firms who can attract customers while operating in Class B buildings -- but they are in a minority," he said. "Most tend to gravitate to Class A," he added, referring to the newest and best-equipped buildings.
Mr. Cohen said it seems that some current activity is from law firms trying to lock in leases while vacancies are high and rents low compared with the highs in 2000. "Some of them appear ready to use a trough in the cycle to capture that subsidy -- if not now, then next year," he said.
BECAUSE lawyers tend to favor offices with good views and lots of polished wood paneling, they can reduce their capital expenses if they can find space that has already been built by someone else in an acceptable or semi-acceptable fashion.
This was a factor in the move of the firm Richards Spears Kibbe & Orbe from 35,000 square feet at 1 Chase Plaza to 85,000 square feet at 1 World Financial Center, said Ted Rotante, a managing director at the Studley firm. 
"They are growing, so they needed more space, but what impressed them was the quality of the building and the installation," he said. The interior offices, formerly occupied by the investment banking company Kidder Peabody, had "about 75 percent of what they needed already in place," Mr. Rotante said. "That was a key piece of the puzzle because it is expensive to build and it is their own money." 
Building out law firm space costs about $150 a square feet, including furniture and equipment, said Kenneth D. Rapp, a senior vice president of CB Richard Ellis, a brokerage and services company. This is more than it costs for a standard office building, but probably less than for investment bankers who want costly trading desks as part of their operations, he added.
As a result, when a law firm moves out of a space, the next tenant is likely to be lawyers as well, to take advantage of the prebuilt space, brokers say. Not all aspire to the drawing-room look, they say. "Some firms like a lean and mean look that tells clients they won't be gouged with fees," Mr. Rotante said. "Others want to emphasize their long-term presence."
Most recent deals involving law firms have been done in Midtown, said Lewis Miller, an executive managing director of Insignia/ESG, a New York-based brokerage and services company. "Most are Midtown oriented," he said. "They will consider downtown, the East and West Sides, but in the end they want to be in the center because they have to recruit people."
And they like certain types of buildings, where partners can have offices with views on the outer part of a building, with interior space for associates and clerical staff, he said. "They need floors with a high ratio of window space to core space," he said, and they favor floors with 25,000 to 30,000 square feet to accommodate the proper ratio of partners, associates and support staff.
Law firms tend to benchmark each other on things like associates' pay levels and the amount of real estate allocated to each person, said Marcus J. Rayner, a principal in CRESA Partners, a New York-based brokerage and services firm. Most top firms allot about 1,000 square feet per partner.
But with market rents along Park Avenue averaging $62.34 for each of these square feet annually, according to Cushman & Wakefield (down from a peak of $68.99 a square foot in 2000), some firms are seeking to pack people in more tightly.
"If someone can get that down to 600 square feet per lawyer, they would be locking in a tremendous competitive advantage," Mr. Rayner said.
Because the availability of space in a building seldom coincides with the decision of a law firm to expand or merge with another firm, many large firms are involved in what Mr. Rayner calls "the space management business." As space becomes available, the firm leases it protectively and then tries to sublease it on a short-term basis until the need to occupy arises.
Some landlords have been historically reluctant to deal with law firms because the firms have few assets and will not sign leases holding partners personally responsible for rent payments. That reluctance has softened in the current environment of rising vacancy rates, and as a practical matter most firms are growing rather than collapsing.
"The notion that they have no assets is rapidly becoming silly," Mr. Rayner said. "With one or two specific exceptions, they do not go out of business, they grow and produce profits."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 1.15-million-square-foot Lincoln Building, at 60 East 42nd Street, is home to 153 law firms. The building has a law library with 15,000 books. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (89%); LAW LIBRARIES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LEASING INDUSTRY (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (77%); TRENDS (77%); LAW FIRM MERGERS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); LIBRARIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BINGHAM MCCUTCHEN LLP (94%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (94%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



593 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2639 words

HEADLINE: After Graduation, Lessons in Renting 

BYLINE:  By NANCY BETH JACKSON

 BODY:
THE F train packed at day's end with 20-something commuters rumbles toward Brooklyn, but passengers look animated, not exhausted, and chat away as though they're off on a college football weekend. They are living out their dreams of making it in New York City even though they cannot afford Manhattan rents and often make the commute twice a day -- once to work, and once to hang out in SoHo or the Village, East or West.
 The seasonal tsunami of young graduates perched on their first career rungs has swept into town and they are adapting to the realities of real estate in the New York City area. Those with jobs but slender salaries discover that a sort of dormitory life continues, though perhaps with the fitness benefits of a long climb to a walk-up apartment. Even those with well-paying first jobs find that pooling rent money pays dividends in space and surroundings. And countless parents discover new meanings, and the arcane New York City complications, of the word "guarantor." 
 "We definitely sacrifice to live here," said Nissa Larsen, 22, who just moved into a two-bedroom, sixth-floor walk-up in the West Village with two college friends, one of whom sleeps in the living room. "But everyone has to live in New York at some point and I'm glad I'm doing it now." 
Finding that first apartment in the city has always been daunting, but the challenge is even greater today when the rule of thumb used by landlords and brokers calls for a salary of 42 to 52 times the monthly rent just to be considered a prospective tenant. A minuscule $1,200 studio requires a minimum income of $50,000 when many sought-after entry-level jobs, particularly in the arts, fashion and nonprofits, pay under $30,000.
Proof of sufficient income is only one requirement. Securing an apartment means a fistful of cash for credit checks, application fees, security deposits, brokerage or referral fees and perhaps several months' rent in advance. For some, a land-line telephone and cable television become luxuries. Most young people end up bunking with roommates who may or may not be friends, asking parents to co-sign leases as guarantors or shoehorning themselves into spaces smaller and darker than their closets back home. "You feel you must live here and will sacrifice by cobbling it together, because there's no other experience in the United States like trying to live and work in New York," said Anita Visser, executive director of the New York City Rent Guidelines Board. Her agency issues the annual allowable changes in rents for apartments subject to rent stabilization -- a category somewhat akin to a Holy Grail of new renters' desire, and equally hard to find. 
The newcomers find apartments the way people always have -- by word of mouth, classified ads and a lot of shoe leather -- but the Internet now lets their fingers do much of the walking. In a city without multiple listings, realtor Web sites update daily, advertising the latest offerings and open houses as well as explaining the parlance of New York real estate and what documents must be in hand. Some agents conduct almost all of their business online. 
Referral services sign up prospective tenants for a fee and send out e-mail alerts as apartments come on the market. Free services like Craig's List (www.craigslist.org) are visited daily to see what's just been listed for rent, for sale, to sublet or to share. Networks of friends circulate e-mails as apartments become available.
Books like "Gabriel's Apartment Rental Guide" to no-fee apartments and "Zany's New York City Apartment Sales & Rental Guide," each updated annually, make handy references. Internet resources are updated much more frequently, sometimes hourly, but should be checked for accuracy. No matter how much research is done, however, luck and accident can rule in a market where demand far exceeds supply.
IT also helps not to have romantic visions about that first apartment. Erin Brown, 24, a University of Missouri biology graduate who works on commission for a talent agency, jumped at the chance to move into the bedroom a sorority sister was vacating in a two-bedroom apartment in Long Island City. It lacks charm, light and location, but at $425 a month for her share, it gives her a launch pad in the city
"I didn't have any expectations," she said. "I wanted to find out if I could make it -- quote unquote -- in New York." But she admitted she would rather be in the bright lights of Manhattan.
Holly Golightly did not live in Hoboken and those aging buddies in "Friends" don't hang out in Brooklyn. Manhattan is where the jobs and lifestyle are, but fewer and fewer young people can afford to sleep there. Rents dropped somewhat in the last year but, brokers say, picked up again over the summer as the new crop of college graduates started shopping for apartments. The boroughs outside of Manhattan and New Jersey bring more space for the dollar, but the more desirable housing, apartment-hunters say, is not all that much cheaper. 
"The best and the brightest," said Michael H. Schill, director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University "still want to be here. Unfortunately, most want to live in the same neighborhoods." 
Those neighborhoods for the most part are Core Manhattan - south of 96th Street on the East Side and below 100th Street on the West Side - although neighborhoods like Williamsburg and Cobble Hill have developed their own cachet. The occasional bargain can still be found in the core, particularly in the Upper East Side and Lower Manhattan, but median rent for a newly vacated apartment there is double that in the rest of the city, according to the Rent Guidelines Board. 
"The rents," said Ralph Barocas, president of Rent-Direct, an online rental service, "are not back to what they might have been two years ago, but it's still going to be hard for the individual earning $30,000 to live here. Manhattan is like a country club, but not everyone can afford to join. " 
The salary-to-rent ratio also means that parents often have to co-sign the lease as guarantors. "The landlords leave you no choice," said one father.
Joining the club takes some doing, not to mention compromise.
"It's not totally impossible to find an apartment, but a little bit of stark reality is helpful," said Lynn Spanich, an Upper West Side specialist at the Corcoran Group. "Move uptown or move off the island."
She began scouting out Harlem five years ago and has begun renting apartments in Washington Heights and Inwood on the northern end of the island as neighborhoods all over the city have improved. "Maybe it's not their dream neighborhood, but there's a tradeoff," she said. "The farther uptown you go, the larger the apartments you get. It's rabbit warrens downtown."
Ms. Larsen and her roommates, Catherine Lai and Greta Lundeberg, have re-created their Vassar dormitory experience to be able to live in the West Village. Like others interviewed, they were reluctant to discuss details of their rent, but it takes all three of their salaries from jobs in public relations and nonprofit organizations to meet the rent formula. Ms. Lai sleeps in the living room. In exchange, she gets the view of the Empire State and Chrysler Buildings.
In an earlier era, they might have settled into a residential hotel for young working women. Early in the last century, the six-story Junior League Hotel on East End Avenue offered shopgirls, milliners and teachers a private room, two meals a day and use of a sewing room for $4 to $7 a week. From 1927 to 1981, the Barbizon Hotel on East 63rd was known as "New York's Most Exclusive Hotel Residence for Young Women." Private lodgings were also plentiful for young men in residential hotels. 
A number of such hotels, run by religious and nonprofit groups, survive in Manhattan such as the three women's residences operated by the Salvation Army, the 92nd Street Y's de Hirsch Residence for young women and men and Centro Maria on West 54th Street, where the Religious Sisters of Mary Immaculate look out for young women new to the city.
In exchange for monthly rents of under $1,000, sometimes with meals, young people at such residences may have to observe curfews, eat at prescribed times, forsake alcohol in their rooms and entertain gentlemen callers only in the first-floor lounge.
But almost any apartment requires more than two entry-level incomes. And today's communal living is more often in a two- or three-bedroom apartment (a temporary wall frequently dividing a living room to make an additional bedroom) with roommates of both sexes.
"Culturally we've shifted," said Ms. Visser of the Rent Guidelines Board. "Adults are now willing to share space. But my mother would say you're not a grown-up until you have your own place." 
At 27, Ben Eysselinck, who graduated from St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minn., into the Internet boom, would agree. "Unless you're independently wealthy or are willing to live in a closet apartment, no one in New York at my age/career level can afford to live alone," he said. 
When he, a girlfriend and his sister moved into a one-bedroom apartment in Williamsburg in March 2001, the landlord suggested they add a room by building a wall that would remain when the lease was terminated. Other landlords allow temporary walls. 
The challenge for Mr. Eysselinck, however, was finding someone to share his $1,400 rent when his company downsized him out of a job and his roommates moved. "I say go to the Web first and foremost," said Mr. Eysselinck, an interface developer and consultant. "Web users are a certain class of people and it allows you anonymity."
He suggested creating a new e-mail address for the sifting process and then interviewing the top five candidates personally. But in the end it was gut reaction that counted in his case. "You meet a potential when you're both chatting like blue-hairs over mah-jongg after five minutes."
Since last May he has had a roommate who shares not only the rent but also his views on "film, women, rain-forest deforestation and genetic crop dusting." Best of all, their schedules rarely mesh.
Roommates do not have to sign a lease, but they risk having very few rights if they don't, warned Ms. Visser, who suggested that they put their agreements in writing.
BROKERS are finding that in some sectors like finance, two and three people who could each afford a $2,000 studio are going in together on more luxurious apartments and lofts. "It changes the lifestyle," said Reza Namazi, who specializes in SoHo properties. "It adds glamour and helps your social life for sure."
His clients are often in modeling, film-making, finance and international business. Because of exchange rates, New York still looks incredibly cheap for many young Europeans, he said. 
While rents are not going down "dramatically," he find landlords offering several months free rent or picking up fees to fill new luxury buildings or to keep high-end properties filled.
Matt McGowan, 26, will soon be moving into a one-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment in one of the new Trump towers overlooking the Hudson for less than what some of his friends will be paying for a midrange studio in Manhattan. He and a friend from Lafayette College days are splitting the rent, which he calculates as $3,200 a month after the two months of free rent that was an incentive for signing a 14-month lease is taken into account. What's more, the management is putting up a wall "with a real door" across the dining alcove to give Mr. McGowan his own room with river views.
The native New Yorker graduated four years ago into the dot-com world of six-figure starting salaries and worked in San Francisco before starting his own hedge fund in Boulder, Colo., where he commuted to work by mountain bike. But he missed the city. He came back, lining up his apartment before finding a job.
Sherief Hammad, 25, also in finance, lived near Wall Street for three years after graduating from the University of Pennsylvania, but he wanted to move uptown, splitting the rent with two recent graduates from Georgetown and the University of Richmond. He thought the apartments advertised in Mr. Namzi's window too expensive, but walked in anyway to see if SoHo would be affordable if three shared. 
"I saw places up to $9,000, but a lot of landlords were ready to negotiate," he said.
After looking at five apartments, he and his roommates, also in finance, found a SoHo duplex that had been an art gallery. For what a studio could cost, each has his own room and can walk out into a neighborhood full of attractions. But the real payoff is the gallery space where they can gather after working long hours, sometimes seven days a week, and have friends over 
Finding that first New York apartment is the stuff of movies, books, television series and life passages, but it also has a dark side. Illegal conversions of buildings, whether private homes or warehouse spaces, violate city building and fire codes. Hair dryers and computers can overload electrical circuits in spaces without fire alarms or sprinklers. Fire escapes are sometimes nonexistent or inaccessible. Tenants in an illegal conversion can be required to leave if the violation cannot be corrected. If there is any doubt about legality, prospective tenants should check with the city's Department of Buildings before signing a lease.
The tight market also affects the labor pool. Mr. Schill, the Furman Center director, worries that the city's economic development will suffer if people start turning down jobs in New York because they cannot afford the housing or leave because they do not want to leave in rabbit warrens. "It's unacceptable that people have to pay half of their income for rent," he said. "Housing needs to be thought of hand in hand with economic business development."
Rebecca Steelman, who came to New York after graduating with honors from Southwestern University in Texas two years ago, is one of the bright young people who came and left. With her college roommate, she moved into a hostel dormitory with 12 other women while they looked for an apartment they could afford as waitresses making about $100 a night. They tried the usual routes for three months without success. A co-worker gave Ms. Steelman, fluent in Spanish, the name of a man who found cheap housing for Mexican workers. "He showed us terrible apartments in bad neighborhoods, but we were so desperate, we almost said yes anyhow," she remembers.
THEN a fellow waitress mentioned an apartment in Queens, only two subway stops from Manhattan, with a $750-a-month rent that included utilities.
"We screamed for joy when we got it," she said. "Never mind that there were only two tiny windows in the kitchen that looked upward to a patch of sky. So what if there were pipes all over the place. Call it modern art. When winter came, we still had to stay fully dressed at home or crawl into bed right away to keep warm. But we decorated and made do."
Her tradeoffs were the proximity to Manhattan, great neighbors and some cheap family restaurants nearby, but she ended up being stressed and unhappy -- and leaving New York to study abroad.
"It wasn't a great place to live," she said. "It was cheap enough and good enough to be bearable, bad enough to keep you searching for better. It was equally fabulous and terrible at the same time. It was a symbol of New York itself really."
When she left, her roommate found a replacement and soon was replaced herself. The apartment continues to be passed along by word of mouth as the tenants either find somewhere better or give up. 
"New York City has an appeal, a promise and an offer," Ms. Visser said. "New York can make you feel that you're at the center of the universe. You consume yourself with your passion, so it doesn't bother you to go back to a tiny place and fall asleep face down."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with an article about the apartment rental market for recent graduates misspelled the surname of one of three roommates. She is Greta Lundeberg, not Lindeberg. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Greta Lindeberg, Nissa Larsen and Catherine Lai in the very small kitchen of their two-bedroom, sixth-floor walk-up in the West Village. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); Sherief Hammad, left, in SoHo duplex he shares with two roommates. Erin Brown, above, shares a two-bedroom in Long Island City. (Left, Andrea Mohin/The New York Times; above, Harry Zernike for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Mohammed Alkandari, left, and Sherief Hammad in the SoHo duplex they share with a third roommate. All three work in finance. The duplex, a former art gallery, has plenty of space for entertaining. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



594 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: BOOK VALUE; 
Beware WhiteKnights Who Wreck the Castle

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN

 BODY:
CORPORATE directors, Wall Street analysts and the business press are too easily smitten with the charisma and personality of chief executives who promise sweeping change when they take over, according to a new book that will surely intensify the already hot debate on corporate governance.
 The book, "Searching for a Corporate Savior: The Irrational Quest for Charismatic C.E.O.'s" (Princeton University Press, $29.95), argues that company directors rely too much on social connections when choosing a chief executive from outside, even when their companies face serious trouble. As a result, the book contends, boards have helped create a "distinctly American cult of the C.E.O." and encouraged extreme levels of executive compensation and other "self-interested decisions." 
 Much of the book, written by Rakesh Khurana, an assistant professor of organizational behavior at Harvard Business School, seems wonderfully rational, not to mention impeccably well timed. Hiring Jeffrey K. Skilling from McKinsey & Company to become chief executive of Enron, for example, obviously didn't work for the company or its shareholders, Mr. Khurana writes. Nor, he says, did the appointments of C. Michael Armstrong at AT&T, George M. C. Fisher at Eastman Kodak or Albert J. Dunlap at Sunbeam. 
Recruiting a "savior" often doesn't work, Mr. Khurana contends, because the new executive doesn't necessarily have the right skills or the right understanding of a company's long-term strategy. A couple of decades ago, in a time of what Mr. Khurana calls managerial capitalism, chief executives selected their successors, with less board involvement. But in the current period of what the author calls investor capitalism, the boards, which presumably represent shareholders' interests, often make the decisions without involving a departing chief executive. Almost one-third of chief executives selected by large, publicly traded corporations can be classified as outsiders, he says.
But it is not always clear where his academic analysis stops and opinion begins. Mr. Khurana spent seven years conducting his research, examining 40 chief-executive successions. He spoke with chief executives, directors and headhunters and developed mathematical equations to describe his research, which no layman can possibly fathom. But it doesn't seem neutral to write, as he does, that corporate management practices in America today resemble a "secularized religion" or that selecting a chief executive is like "crowning Napoleon."
What's good about "Searching for a Corporate Savior," however, is so good that it merits a full airing. Mr. Khurana starts by exploring the market for chief executives, which many people might assume is a wide-open competition that works in the same way as other markets.
But Mr. Khurana doesn't think that it is a real market, as the word is generally understood. He offers the case study of the Bank One board's choice of Jamie Dimon, formerly of Citigroup, as its chief executive, bypassing a candidate from within the company. Russell Reynolds, an executive search firm, placed only four external candidates on the board's short list, and it just so happened that board members had personal connections where all four candidates worked. They were able to get information about Mr. Dimon through these unofficial back channels, helping him win the job.
Mr. Khurana says the number of chief-executive candidates is quite limited and that social and professional connections are so essential that the search is a "social construction," not a market. He contends that major corporations are still dominated by the same class of Protestant, white males that was in charge a century ago, despite the rise to power of a relative handful of women, as well as members of other racial, ethnic and religious groups. The majority of chief executives and the directors who hire them may serve together on boards, belong to the same clubs and business groups or share educational backgrounds.
When a board looks for charisma in an outside candidate, its search is based on social values shared by everyone in the room, Mr. Khurana writes. The outsider has messianic appeal to directors who believe the new leader can heal what ails the company. That faith, Mr. Khurana writes, introduces "the first strain of irrationality into what -- considering what companies believe to be at stake in the choice of a new C.E.O. -- one might expect to be a rational, carefully considered process."
It is irrational, he writes, because the financial performance of a company is much more closely linked to other factors, like broad industry trends. He believes that chief executives are so constrained by internal politics, the company's investments and organizational norms that they can have little impact on performance in the short term.
Boards don't choose insiders because they are perceived as impediments to organizational change, the author says. Little value is placed on their experience, knowledge or relationships with other executives and employees. "Internal candidates, about whom the board knows more than it possibly can about external ones, are considered blemished while external candidates are easily idealized," Mr. Khurana writes.
So boards are tempted to go for glamorous "change agents" who promise sweeping reform and a pop in the share price. "In the era of investor capitalism, it is no longer enough -- or even of the first importance -- that a C.E.O. candidate have particular skills as a manager," Mr. Khurana says. "What matters much more is that a candidate have a particular kind of personality."
Many older executives from the era of managerial capitalism are understated in their comments, but "the new C.E.O.'s are more verbal, controlling and abrasive," he contends. "The new C.E.O.'s also display a brash self-confidence and even flamboyance that can be very seductive and inspiring," he adds.
A company must pay huge amounts in salary and stock options to attract a charismatic chief executive. Often, it must give the new chief the power to reshape the board, by adding more allies. Yet these chiefs ultimately fail, Mr. Khurana writes, because they are not supported by the institutions that they are supposed to lead and lack the power to deliver results by themselves. 
"Charismatic C.E.O. succession is a well-proved route to disappointment," Mr. Khurana writes. Later, he rightly adds, "No single individual can save an organization."
Recent events, of course, should make people care about the problems he spotlights. Some chief executives have either looted their companies or mismanaged them in ways that have wiped out billions of dollars of shareholder value.
"Corporate boards, in their pursuit of charismatic C.E.O.'s through the external succession process, have transferred literally billions of dollars from organizations and shareholders to the personal control of C.E.O.'s and ex-C.E.O.'s -- too often with little, nothing, or even less than nothing to show in return," the author writes. In the future, he adds, "we will look back and marvel at the colossal folly of this chapter in American business history."
WHAT Mr. Khurana's analysis does not take into account are cases in which hiring a charismatic outsider has worked. When a deeply troubled I.B.M. recruited Louis V. Gerstner Jr. from RJR Nabisco in 1993, some commentators howled that hiring a marketing man from the cookie industry would ruin Big Blue. They argued that Mr. Gerstner didn't move fast enough to articulate a vision. Yet few today would argue that Mr. Gerstner has not been a success.
Nor does Mr. Khurana directly discuss why executives who built their companies might engage in hurting them. He does not mention the executives who are under investigation in connection with such wrongdoing, such as Bernard J. Ebbers of WorldCom, or those who have been formally accused, like L. Dennis Kozlowski of Tyco International or John J. Rigas of Adelphia Communications. The extrapolation from Mr. Khurana's argument is that such executives, if guilty, got away with it by intimidating their boards.
The author does not offer a sweeping set of solutions. He seems to favor a tilt back toward the time when the emphasis was on developing chief executives internally. Obviously, he thinks that boards and search firms should focus more on a candidate's business acumen. And he is scathingly critical of Wall Street analysts and business journalists for fanning the flames of chief-executive worship.
Mr. Khurana, at 34, could be involved in the debate about corporate boards and C.E.O.'s for years to come. Born in India but raised in the Bayside section of Queens, he has offered a critique of corporate America that only a true outsider could offer. That, combined with the legitimacy conferred by his Harvard teaching position and Princeton publisher, will rattle corporate cages at a time when they sorely need rattling.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In choosing chief executives, company directors often fall under the spell of glamorous "change agents," a new book says. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); WRITERS (77%); CULTS & SECTS (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); CASE STUDIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MATHEMATICS (66%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; BOOKS AND MAGAZINES 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (69%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (LSE) (50%); 8634 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: KHURANA, RAKESH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



595 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Kim Sealy, Lawrence Price

 BODY:
Kim E. Sealy and Lawrence Christopher Price were married Friday evening at Terrace on the Park, a caterer, in Corona, Queens. The Rev. 
Tony Owens, a nondenominational minister, officiated.
 Mrs. Price, 33, is the senior advertising account executive at Jet magazine in Manhattan. She graduated from the State University of New York at New Paltz and received a master's degree in media studies and mass communications at the New School University. She is the daughter of Velda and Desmond Sealy of Brooklyn. Her father is a merchant seaman and an electrician with the Keystone Shipping Company in Beaumont, Tex., a business that transports supplies and equipment for the United States military. Her mother runs an after-school child-care service in Brooklyn. 
 Until this year, the bridegroom, 32, owned L. Price & Associates, an Allstate Insurance agency in Brooklyn. In October, he is to become an assistant project officer in construction management for the New Jersey Economic Development Authority in Trenton, which designs and constructs schools. He graduated from Hampton University. His mother, Suzanne S. Babb of Elmont, N.Y., is a patient-care manager at the Brooklyn Hospital Center. His father, Lawrence Price of Hackettstown, N.J., is a freelance television cameraman there.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Tyronne Rasheed) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (72%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); CHILD CARE (53%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (69%); ALLSTATE CORP (56%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: SEALY, KIM E. (KIM E. PRICE); PRICE, LAWRENCE CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



596 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Ford Think City; 
Illuminating High-Voltage Commute

BYLINE:  By LEONARD M. APCAR

DATELINE: SCARSDALE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
TO drive an electric car you have to be a bit of an extrovert. I learned this behind the wheel of the Think City, a tiny, odd-looking commuter vehicle that I drove to the train station for two weeks.
 I liked it, and so did lots of folks I passed by. They waved. Some drivers rolled down their windows and asked how they could get one. Small crowds gathered when I parked. Two electricians leaning on their van gave me a pair of thumbs-ups as I whirred by. 
 Though it was fun while it lasted, I was not surprised when Ford announced recently that it had stopped making the Think.
The hard truth is that while electric cars are fun and environmentally correct, and the Think made a lot of sense for a drive-and-ride commute, they cannot provide the versatility that Americans expect of their cars. The City, a two-seat econobox built in Norway by an electric-car company that Ford took control of in 2000, had plenty of zip, but it could not travel far enough to be more than a station car.
While it would go 40 miles or so on a charge, if I strayed too far from my house or the train station -- two places where I knew I could find battery chargers -- I'd be stranded. Home Depot doesn't sell extension cords by the mile.
Electric cars have held promise since the earliest days of the automobile, but a breakthrough in battery technology has never come. More recently, advocates have pushed electrics as ideal second cars for commuters like me, an alternative to using a thirsty, polluting gas-powered older car to drive to the train station.
Indeed, the Think City fitted my specific needs well. It easily transported me to the train station at White Plains, just 1.3 miles from my house, and it competently helped me run errands. Most other Americans don't take trains to work, and often commute more than 40 miles. This electric vehicle was not for them. Their needs would be better met by a hybrid gas-electric car like the 2003 Honda Civic Hybrid that I test-drove at the same time I was commuting with the Think City. The Civic Hybrid is a four-door sedan that appears almost identical to a gas-only Civic in roominess, handling and acceleration. Its dual power source combines a modest gasoline engine (a 1.3-liter 4 cylinder) with a 10-kilowatt electric motor. You don't need to worry about finding a charger because you never plug the Civic Hybrid in -- its nickel-metal-hydride battery recharges itself by capturing energy that would otherwise be lost during braking or deceleration.
The Civic achieves an estimated 51 m.p.g. in highway driving and 47 m.p.g. around town with a manual transmission, 48 m.p.g. in both categories with an automatic. Instead of worrying about finding a charge you need only be concerned with buying gas every 650 miles or so. There is a substantial battery-maintenance service after 100,000 miles that costs $3,000.
The Civic Hybrid starts around $20,000 and qualifies for a $2,000 clean-fuel federal tax deduction. Toyota makes a hybrid and more models are coming, including a hybrid Ford Escape sport utility vehicle that arrives next fall.
Ford and others are working on hydrogen fuel cells, which have the potential of providing cheap, clean power. But even if significant technical hurdles can be cleared, fuel cell cars are years away.
My electric-car test was part of the Clean Commute program started last fall by Ford, the New York Power Authority and the commuter railroads in Westchester County and on Long Island. Their plan was to lease 100 Think electrics to test whether enough commuters were interested in driving one to the train where they could fully recharge it while they were at work so they could easily complete the return trip home.
After hundreds of commuters expressed interest, virtually all the cars were leased for $199 a month for 34 months. Ford has said it will back the warranty on all the Thinks until the end of the lease, including three more vehicles that program managers say will be leased shortly.
Parking spaces at certain Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road stations cost extra, but had the battery charger and free electricity. (At my station, the designated electric-car spaces couldn't have been any closer to the platform.) Chargers could also be installed at your home.
I had to test two Thinks because the first one had problems. It drained too much power on even the shortest hops, and never went farther than about 23 miles on a charge.
The second car got about 44 miles to a charge, short of the 50 miles that Ford had estimated it would travel, but still enough range for short trips from home.
But in both cars I found I had to constantly watch my dwindling source of power. I could have made it from White Plains to Times Square, for instance -- about 25 miles -- but I couldn't make it back without charging. 
Charging the cars was as simple as plugging in a cord. A full charge took six to eight hours. A gauge on the dashboard indicated the percentage of power left in the battery.
The top speed is said to be 56 miles an hour, and I easily achieved that. The City weighs nearly 2,100 pounds, with nickel-cadmium batteries under the front seats accounting for about a quarter of the weight. It goes from zero to 30 miles an hour in about 7 seconds, which won't set any records but I had no trouble accelerating from a stop.
At 7 to 9 cents a kilowatt hour, mileage on electrics is only a third the cost of gas-powered cars, assuming one pays $1.50 a gallon and averages 20 miles a gallon.
Compelling as that is, the Think City is essentially a small car with a limited purpose. After all, how many people commute by train and are willing to live with its limited range? Clearly for Ford that number was too small.

INSIDE TRACK: Electric or gas powered? Maybe the answer is both.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some stations offered battery chargers.; Think City goes 40 miles on a charge.; Ford is abandoning Think City, which 97 commuters in New York have been testing. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Think City drivers can check the battery gauge on the dashboard at right to see how much power remains. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); TRAINS (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



597 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2455 words

HEADLINE: So Pink, So New York 

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
THE seriousness of fall, with its early twilights, overbooked restaurants and new television shows, has descended, and the simple, enduring rituals of city life that seemed impertinent in the heat are reviving. In other words, brunch is back. 
 The quintessential New York brunch involves a deceptively simple triumvirate: bagel, cream cheese and lox. It is salmon that lies at the heart of this classic dish, and salmon that lies at the heart of its mystery. Those innocent pink ribbons of flesh could tell a tale of battered national pride, ecological battles, ethnic inauthenticity, economic flux and jousting connoisseurs, a tale that spans the globe and the centuries. 
 The history of a fish is bound to be blurry. But the story of where smoked salmon comes from and how it became a symbol of New York is especially elusive. 
A sign behind the cool glass counter at Russ & Daughters, a Houston Street delicatessen that began life in 1905 as a pickled herring pushcart, reads, "Lox et veritas." Both are in short supply these days.
Mark Russ Federman, the 57-year-old owner, grandson of the original Russ, pointed to a meaty, deep pink chunk of fish: lox, which in his store means the rich, brine-cured belly of a wild Pacific salmon. "That's where it all started," he said. 
But today, lox accounts for only a small fraction of his salmon sales.
"People use lox as a general term -- bagel and lox -- but what is traditional and genuine lox is not smoked salmon at all," said Mr. Federman's daughter Niki, who also works at the shop. "It is a salmon cured in salt brine. No refrigeration needed. When people come into the store, they ask for lox, and we say, 'Are you sure?' "
Terry Huggins, charcuterie manager at Dean & DeLuca, has not sold a piece of lox since 1990. Even at Barney Greengrass, that emporium of nostalgia, lox doesn't sell well, and Saul Zabar himself prefers the more modern, Nova-style smoked fish. Today, most of the Sunday-morning salmon sold in New York -- 2,500 pounds each week at Zabar's alone -- is not lox, but lightly salted and smoked salmon.
For some traditionalists, the dainty stuff now in vogue will not do. 
"When I'm in the mood, this is the only one that's satisfying," Mr. Federman said. "My grandfather started with this. Somehow that on a bagel makes it for me." His lox oozes with ocean, begging for cream cheese to counter the saltiness. "It is roots and nostalgia, that salt taste," Mr. Federman added. "I think we have a genetic predisposition to the taste of salt-cured fish."

The 20th-Century Mikvah
Tell a Scot about the wedding of a Jewish woman and a Scottish man at which the attractions included tartan yarmulkes and Jewish delicacies like smoked salmon, and he'll laugh.
"That's a good one!" said Roddy Wilde, until recently head of international trading for Pinneys of Scotland, one of Britain's largest salmon processors, as he drove toward Scottish Sea Farms near Oban, where much of the fish processed at Pinneys comes from. Mr. Wilde had a point. Smoke and salt have been used to preserve fish since antiquity. 
Countries of northern Europe have a long tradition of smoking fish to conserve salt. In fact, the word lox is derived from the German lachs, meaning salmon. Near the River Bann in Ireland lie the remains of what is thought to be a fish-drying and -smoking station dating to 2000 B.C. 
American recipes using smoked salmon date to the early 19th century, when it was a pricey restaurant food. But, according to Claudia Roden, author of "The Book of Jewish Food," there is no evidence that Eastern European Jews ate lox or smoked salmon in the shtetls. They ate copious amounts of fish, but salmon was usually too expensive.
Lox and smoked salmon became Jewish through an accident of migration. When European immigrants came to New York, they brought traditions of smoking and salting fish. But the stuff did not take off until the arrival of Eastern European Jews in the late 19th and early 20th century. 
In the United States, the opening of the first transcontinental railroad in 1869 connected the waters of the Pacific Northwest, which were teeming with wild salmon, with New York fishmongers. Barrels filled with hundreds of pounds of salmon interleaved with salt were transported east. The salt drew water from the flesh of the fish, creating a briny bath that preserved the salmon for up to a year without refrigeration. 
At the same time, the market for lox was exploding. Eastern European immigrants would have appreciated lox both for its price -- 9 cents for a quarter-pound in the 1920's and 30's -- and for its convenience. It was easy to handle -- and pareve, making it acceptable with milk or meat. It fast became a staple.
"Think about it in terms of tenements, the crowded conditions and absence of cooking facilities," said James Shenton, professor emeritus at Columbia University, whose specialty is immigrant history. "Lox had the advantage of not requiring the effort that would have made life more complicated than it was."
This phenomenon could be seen elsewhere in the Jewish diaspora: H. Forman & Son, the last of London's traditional East End smokers, was founded in 1905 by a Jewish immigrant from Russia. And as the fish's popularity grew, techniques for preparing it evolved rapidly. 
"When they discovered there was fabulous wild salmon coming down to Billingsgate market every summer," said Lance Forman, the fourth-generation proprietor, "they thought: 'Well, no point in shipping them over. Let's try smoking these instead.' " Thus was born the mild "London cure," achieved by curing fillets with dry salt for 24 hours and cold-smoking them over oakwood for 24 more. This process is still followed at Forman's, whose smoked wild Scottish salmon is sold at Fairway, Zabar's and Dean & DeLuca.
A similar drift from heavy salting occurred in the United States, especially after refrigeration rendered briny preservation obsolete. But salmon here was typically cured in a low-salt liquid solution, which creates a silky, chewier fish. Salmon prepared this way, much of which used to be imported from Nova Scotia and the Gaspe Peninsula, was often sold as Nova or Gaspe. Pacific salmon was often sold as Western Nova. The names stuck.

How the Fish Took the Town
The Lower East Side's ramshackle crush of diversity and poverty was fertile ground for culinary invention. By the early 20th century, cream cheese, lox and bagels were available in tempting proximity. One day, some anonymous genius combined them. 
"Who put the triumvirate together, no one knows," Mr. Federman said. But what is clear is that this inspired combination of immigrant Jewish foods rapidly won over mainstream palates. 
Lox's leap from the ghetto reflected a larger spread of Jewish culture in the 1920's that occurred as Jews moved out of the Lower East Side into mainstream culture, becoming prominent in show business and especially in the movie industry. 
"Jewish culture in a sense became fashionable because of show business," said Mark Kurlansky, author of "Salt: A World History." "If you think about people like Irving Berlin or the Marx Brothers, people who just became New York culture, they were Lower East Side Jews."
Herbert Goldman, Al Jolson's biographer, even suggests that the great Jolson himself might have sparked the combination's popularity. Jolson appeared regularly on Kraft's musical revues in the 1930's, and James Lewis Kraft, founder of the cheese company, told the performers to refer to company products in their routines as often as possible. Who's to say Jolson didn't rattle off a ditty about cream cheese, lox and bagels in a winning fit of commercial imagination?
Andrew F. Smith, editor in chief of the forthcoming Oxford Encyclopedia of American Food and Drink, has a more primal hypothesis: "Fast food," he said. "It's easy. It's good."

When Packaging Trumps Place
Today, New York bagels are dressed with an array of pink, red and orange strips of smoked salmon, which is typically marketed by country of origin. There are only two major classes of salmon: Atlantic, which is found throughout Northern Europe, on the Eastern Seaboard of North America, and in Chile; and Pacific, which is found in Alaska and the Pacific Northwest. But you can buy smoked salmon identified as Scottish, Irish, Norwegian, Gaspe or Nova.
These geographic distinctions are increasingly obsolete. Much of the salmon at emporiums like Zabar's, Fairway, Barney Greengrass, Russ & Daughters and Dean & DeLuca actually comes from Acme Smoked Fish, a third-generation smokehouse in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
Acme's day begins at 4 a.m. The fish are prepared Nova style, cured in salt, water and brown sugar, before being cold-smoked on racks in a large oven. Fruitwood shavings burn in a small stove, making the 50,000-square-foot factory smell incongruously of a campfire. The salmon, whether farmed fish from Norway, Chile and the Faeroe Islands, or wild Pacific salmon from Alaska, is processed identically.
"Nova is really a style of curing fish," said Buzz Billick, vice president of sales at Acme. "Nova has nothing to do with the type of fish. At one time, yes. Today, no." 
The geographical confusion extends to the fish sold at Fairway, whose in-house smoked salmon is sometimes Canadian fish, sometimes Chilean. Olga Ortiz, a wiry Ecuadorean, smokes 150 sides -- 450 pounds -- a week in a small metal box at the end of a hallway lined with coats on the third floor of the Fairway in Harlem.
Fairway also sells Scotch-style salmon made at Acme by dry-curing Norwegian or Chilean fish and smoking it over fruitwood. 
Scotch-style salmon? "That's a New York invention," said Mr. Wilde of Pinneys.
And Nova lox? He laughed. "The problem," he said, "is you are looking for truth in something that is not very well developed. It has been a ramshackle band of misfits trying to make smoked salmon in many different countries."

How the Fish Lost Its Soul
Today, almost all the smoked salmon sold in New York is grown on a farm. Zabar's has not carried wild smoked salmon for a decade. Acme gets virtually all of the five million pounds of salmon it smokes each year from farms in Norway and Chile.
With farmed fish, how the fish are raised, cured and smoked has more impact on the final product than nationality, although some would argue otherwise. Scots helped establish some fish farms in Chile, and many farms in Scotland and Chile are owned by Norwegian companies. But Mr. Billick would never sell Russ Federman a Chilean fish. Mr. Ortiz of Fairway thinks Chilean salmon are the best. 
Some say water temperature and quality make Scottish fish different from Norwegian fish. But most variables involved in raising salmon can be controlled by manufacturers. This level of industrial control has made salmon a cheap, consistent product but the soul of the fish did not withstand the pressures of modern commerce. Salmon was dubbed the king of fish not only for its noble journey back upstream to spawn but also for its wily inconsistency. 
"They have a mystique all their own," said David Pullar, who has been fishing salmon commercially for three decades. "You think you've got their patterns worked out, what they are going to do next, and they do something completely different that throws all your reckoning upside down."
Every 12 hours Mr. Pullar checks his nets along the beach at Usan, one of Scotland's oldest fishing villages. "Salmon swim with the wind," he said. "They are like women. You never know where you are with them."
But in an era of mechanized factories, fish farms and supermarkets, chances are next to zero that the salmon on your bagel ever swam with the wind. The fish's vaunted unpredictability has become a liability.
"I think people are so excited about the fact they can get good fresh farmed salmon 52 weeks of a year," Mr. Billick said, "they don't think about what goes into making the fish this fat and this red."
The fat comes from a sedentary lifestyle and the red comes from chemically enhanced feed pellets. Without additives, the flesh of farm-raised salmon would be gray. Buyers can specify the color they want, using a standardized color scale that looks like paint chips. 

The Life of a Modern Fish
For some fish, the road to Zabar's begins on a tray in a hatchery on the Isle of Mull, off Scotland's west coast. Fish to be sold next summer were eggs in December 2000. The next spring, they were put in cages in freshwater lochs, where they stayed for a year, until the smolts were ready to go out to sea.
This April, Neil MacInnes, who manages a farm site for Scottish Sea Farms, bucked over the glassy surface of Loch Creran, near Oban, in a light metal boat. He was headed for one of the large plastic cages floating in the loch. The area was ringed by wild forest, tree farms, a few houses and an old factory. The beauty of the place was so complete, it seemed breakable.
The cages had been stocked two weeks earlier with 350,000 smolts, which will be harvested next spring. Mr. MacInnes fed the fish pellets made of fish meal, fish oil, soy and dye. Aside from the plunk of the small fish jumping and the scattershot murmur of the pellets, the place was silent.
On shore, at the Scottish Sea Farms processing station in South Shian, 11,000 identical salmon were being pumped from a boat up a long black pipeline to a shed, where their life ended with a sharp snap of a stun machine. All the fish were bled, gutted, tagged and shipped within eight hours.
From South Shian, a fish might move to a factory like Pinneys, which processes 13,000 tons of farmed salmon annually. Each fish travels a course of conveyor belts and chutes, along which it is mechanically guillotined, washed and filleted. The fish is dry-cured for 24 to 72 hours and smoked over oak for 14 hours. Saul Zabar's fish is hand-sliced and vacuum-packed before going on a plane in Manchester, London or Glasgow. The whole process takes at least 10 days.
"We are really no longer in the farmer's kitchen doing things haphazardly," Mr. Wilde said. "It is a big business."
For Mr. Federman of Russ & Daughters, salmon is also a good business. 
"My grandfather came over here, and it was all poverty," he said. "He left poverty. He came here and the streets weren't lined with gold. It wasn't the golden Medina. It was the Lower East Side ghetto."
His parents met over a barrel of pickled herring and worked six days a week, 12 hours a day, so the children wouldn't have to go home smelling like fish. Mr. Federman studied law but ended up a fishmonger. 
"The ultimate Jewish irony is that I would like my kids to be here doing this," he said. "My fish business is less fishy than most things out there. I am probably the only Jewish father who is disappointed his kid wants to be a doctor."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Smoked salmon at the venerable Forman & Son in London, above, and, inset, a specialty of the house at Russ & Daughters on Houston Street. (Above, Jonathan Player for The New York Times; inset, Harry Zernike for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Neil MacInnes of Scottish Sea Farms, above, on Loch Creran. Processing salmon at Acme Smoked Fish, top left, a third-generation family smokehouse in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, and at Forman & Son in London. (Top left, Harry Zernike for The New York Times; top right, Jonathan Player for The New York Times; above, Erika Kinetz for The New York Times); "It is roots and nostalgia, that salt taste," said Mark Russ Federman of Russ & Daughters. (Michael Nagle/The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SEAFOOD (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); RETAILERS (71%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SALMON 

PERSON: KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); SCOTLAND (50%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



598 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: SOUTH BRONX; 
Bronx Zoo, Yankee Stadium, Jerome Avenue Auto Glass

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
As drivers edge toward Manhattan on the Cross Bronx Expressway, official highway signs direct them toward places like Yankee Stadium, the Bronx Museum of the Arts and Bronx-Lebanon Hospital. This summer, someone decided one more South Bronx attraction was worth plugging, and up went two very visible, very unofficial green-on-white signs that read: "Auto Glass Shops: Exit Jerome Avenue."
 A dozen auto glass shops sit just off Exit 2A, where a replacement for a taillight or a windshield can be picked from thousands of used parts that hang from chain-link fences and are stacked on shelves. 
 The signs, which direct drivers to a decidedly downtrodden stretch under the elevated No. 4 train that also includes mechanics and used-car dealers, started a buzz among the businesses, but no one knows who put them up. At least, no one is fessing up. 
"They've been up two and a half months, and no one knows where they came from," said Joey Santiago, whose family has run Best Auto Glass for 20 years.
Joshua Perez, a freelance auto glass man who works for several of the businesses, says he thinks owners of newer shops installed the signs to attract customers from New Jersey who usually patronized more distant glass shops in Hunts Point.
"Whoever put it on didn't tell no one," Mr. Perez added. "They didn't put it up in the daytime, I'll tell you that much."
Raul Santos, who works at a shop on Inwood Avenue that is somewhat removed from the highway, guessed that the guilty party was one of the first businesses drivers would see.
But Wilson Concepcion, a manager of Cross Bronx Auto Glass, the first shop from the highway, said his company was not the culprit.
Mr. Santiago theorized that the signs were part of an economic development plan. "I think the city did it," he said.
Fat chance.
"They're obviously not sanctioned by the city or the state," said Jennifer M. Nelson of the State Department of Transportation. On Thursday, the city's Department of Transportation dispatched a crew that took the signs down. 
 SETH KUGEL

GRAPHIC: Photo: A very unofficial highway sign. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC SIGNALS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE GLASS REPLACEMENT SHOPS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); USED CAR DEALERS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; SIGNS; GLASS 

PERSON: KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) CROSS BRONX EXPRESSWAY (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



599 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS FOR JOSEPH J. GRANO JR.; 
On Security Panel, Executives Think the Unthinkable

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
THE Homeland Security Advisory Council, a group of leaders from business, academia and state and local government, was created by executive order in March. Its 21 members have been meeting monthly in Washington to advise the Bush administration on strengthening domestic security. 
 Joseph J. Grano Jr., chairman and chief executive of UBS PaineWebber and a Special Forces veteran, is chairman of the council. He talked last week about the business role in guarding against domestic terrorism. PATRICK McGEEHAN

Q. What is the council doing?

A. The national strategy came out with three clear and succinct objectives -- to prevent terrorist attacks, reduce America's vulnerability to future attacks and minimize damage and recover from attacks when and if they occur. We as a group opined on that national strategy. We are making recommendations on how you coordinate and implement it.
 There is no way as a nation that we can achieve a high degree of protection without engaging the private sector. Protecting our critical infrastructure is one of six mission areas in our national strategy. What most people don't recognize is that 80 to 85 percent of all of the critical infrastructure in the United States is owned or operated by the private sector.
Among the initiatives in the strategy is to build and maintain a database of this infrastructure, things like the Lincoln Tunnel, but also private facilities. Securing cyberspace is also a very, very big issue. To do that, we need to work as a partnership.

Q. But companies tend to guard information and solve their problems alone. Is there a willingness to change?

A. These things are done more in silos by each company. My view is it probably has to be done industry by industry. If you were to pick a category to serve as an example, there is probably none better than Wall Street.
Heretofore, every company is focusing immediately on the issue of business continuity. We all have disaster recovery plans that we had to implement. But look at it from a full capital-market perspective, post-9/11, when the whole community pulled together to get the market back up. That type of coordination we now know is possible. 
I'm not going to say to you that we are arm in arm, walking in the sunset. But my experiences thus far and the letters that I have received from other C.E.O.'s have all shown a complete willingness to get on with the task at hand.

Q. The legislation to create the Homeland Security Department seems stuck in the Senate. Are you worried?

A. Right now, the problem is the politicizing there. This department should have already been formed. It's been a year and a day.
This is war. We need to start thinking about a 21st-century response to a 21st-century threat. The intelligence gathering of the private sector needs to be able to be communicated. There are, in my view, some archaic laws that are deterrents. I'd say, "Look, guys, you have got to give us some flexibility here about passing information."
If the American public understood some of the archaic and arcane rules and regulations that a bureaucracy can create, they would quickly rally to the side of the president. The F.A.A. Federal Aviation Administration has more flexibility than what Congress is trying to give this department. The departments of Health and Human Services and Agriculture have more authority to transfer their budgets.
If there's a unique threat on our borders, this department obviously should be held accountable to Congress, but they have to have the flexibility to marshal these 170,000 people and organize them against the objectives of winning a war. Today, if you found a border-patrol person drunk on the job and you tried to fire that person, it takes you 30 days and you have to pay them for those 30 days. You cannot have the equivalent of tenure in a school system being an albatross around the neck of our security efforts.

Q. Isn't there a danger that new ties between government and business over domestic security will hurt productivity at the time the economy needs it most?

A. I don't see the threat. The formation of the Homeland Security Department will be more focused than what we have today. As the partnership with the private sector and with local and state government gets synergized, it will create more productivity and create incremental new businesses in fields like security. I think it has a very positive ramification if we get it right. If we don't get this terrorist situation right, from the point of prevention and reduction, what do you think that would do to our economy? Let something happen and see what happens to our consumer base. There's your threat.

Q. How much time is this work taking away from your real job at UBS PaineWebber?

A. It is probably taking up 5 percent of my working hours. Of what little spare time I have, I am spending about 40 percent of that, mostly reading. And, I can assure you, it keeps you awake at night. Luckily, I don't need much sleep.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph J. Grano Jr. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%) TERRORISM 

COMPANY: UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UBS PAINE WEBBER; HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISORY COUNCIL 

PERSON: MCGEEHAN, PATRICK; GRANO, JOSEPH J JR; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



600 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
Traders Have One Question: Are We There Yet?

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
ALL the major stock indexes tumbled last week -- one by as much as 5.4 percent -- leaving the market perilously close to the five-year low it reached in the summer.
 As of Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average was just 284 points away from its low of 7,702.34. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has to fall only 48 points to reach its low of 797.70, and the Nasdaq composite is only 15 points from its low of 1,206.01. 
 So investors may be wondering whether the bottom of the market is lower than they thought. 
When Wall Street analysts confront questions like this, they consult various barometers of market turns that they have used in the past, for good or ill. These include measures of market volatility, long-term moving averages of market indexes, gauges of value, volume, highs and lows, and meters of bullish or bearish sentiment.
Unfortunately, a glance at them does not give a clear thumbs up or down. But on the whole, a selection of these indicators doesn't say, for the moment, that things are going to become much worse.
Traders use some of these market guides for short-term readings -- to get a sense of where the market is going today, this week or this month. Notably, some barometers are moving back toward their levels of July 23, when the Dow and the S.& P. 500 hit their lows. The index of volatility compiled by the Chicago Board Options Exchange closed at 44.55 on Friday, not far from its close of 50.48 on July 23.
There may be some comfort in the volatility numbers. Before July 23, the last time the volatility index closed above 50 was on Sept. 21, 2001. That turned out to be a bottom for the market drop that followed the terrorist attacks. When the volatility index reached highs of 39.96 in 1997 and 48.56 in 1998, the market also hit bottoms.
Another measure, nicknamed Trin, takes a reading of advancing versus declining stocks and then factors in trading volume to test how meaningful the advances and declines are. Like the volatility reading, it is giving some hints of a bottom.
The ratio of stocks hitting 52-week highs to those falling to lows is neutral at the moment. But it has been moving in a positive direction as the number of stocks setting highs has increased.
Longer-term investment yardsticks, recommended by William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist of Rhodes Analytics in Boston, also provide some reassurance. These measures of economic strength don't help to determine if the market will fall much below its current level. But they do hint at whether the longer-term underpinning for stocks is positive or negative.
Mr. Rhodes pays close attention to a proxy for economic growth -- industrial production, adjusted for inflation by the Consumer Price Index -- because data on the gross domestic product is released only quarterly. This indicator is bullish for now. That fits with forecasts that the economy probably grew at an annual rate of 3.5 percent or more in the third quarter -- not a robust number for a traditional economic recovery, but much better than the 1.1 percent rate in the second quarter.
Another measure, money supply growth, is off its peak but not worrisome, Mr. Rhodes said.
BUT investor sentiment has been moving in a bullish direction in the last few weeks after dipping in late July and early August to its most bearish level since the weeks after the terrorist attacks. This contrarian measure, calculated by Investors Intelligence, has to become more bearish for a market bottom to appear closer.
Mr. Rhodes adds his own bit of caution. When he runs stocks though his financial sorters, he is finding only one to buy for every 26 to sell. The market would have a better outlook, he said, if he could just find more buys than sells.
Perhaps the market will not fall much further, even if it does break through the summer bottom. But if many investors are as picky as Mr. Rhodes, there may not be much of a rebound when the bottom is found.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Market Clues"Stock market volatility is near the levels of last September, when prices tumbled. Graph tracks the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index since Sept. 2001. (Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (59%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (66%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (66%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 

 
